THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                     MEDICINES ACT 1975

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                                                                   2020 Ed.

         Medicines Act 1975

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
         General interpretation
     1.  Meaning of “medicinal product” and related expressions
     2.
     3.

                                        PART 2

             LICENCES AND CERTIFICATES RELATING TO
                            MEDICINAL PRODUCTS

 4. Licensing authority
 5. General provisions as to dealing with medicinal products
 6. Provisions as to manufacture and wholesale dealing
 7. Exemptions for pharmacists and practitioners
 8. Exemption in respect of herbal remedies
 9. General exemptions
10. Register of medicinal products and import licence
11. Application for licence
12. Factors relevant to determination of application for licence
12A. [Repealed]
13. Grant or refusal of licence
14. Duration and renewal of licence
15. Provisional licences
16. General power to suspend, revoke or vary licences
17. Variation of licence on application of holder
18. Clinical trials and medicinal tests on animals
19. Provision of information to licensing authority
19A. [Repealed]
19B. [Repealed]
19C. [Repealed]
19D. [Repealed]
20. Offences under this Part

         1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                              2

Section
   21. Special defences under section 20
   22. Certificates for exporters of medicinal products

                                        PART 3

           FURTHER PROVISIONS RELATING TO DEALINGS
                        WITH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS

23. General sale list
24. Sale or supply of medicinal products not on general sale list
25. Sale or supply of medicinal products on general sale list
26. Prohibition of sale of medicinal products from automatic

         machines
27. Exemptions for doctors, dentists and veterinary surgeons and in

         respect of herbal remedies
28. Power to extend or modify exemptions
29. Medicinal products on prescription only
30. Prohibition of sale, supply or import of medicinal products of

         specified description or of animal feeding stuffs incorporating
         such products
31. Adulteration of medicinal products
32. Protection of purchasers of medicinal products
33. Compliance with standards specified in monographs in certain
         publications
34. Further powers to regulate dealings with medicinal products
35. Offences under this Part
36. to 43. [Repealed]

                                        PART 4

           CONTAINERS, PACKAGES AND IDENTIFICATION
                          OF MEDICINAL PRODUCTS

44. Labelling and marking of containers and packages
45. Leaflets
46. Requirements as to containers
47. Distinctive colours, shapes and markings of medicinal products
48. Offences under this Part and supplementary provisions

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
3        Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

         PART 5

         PROMOTION OF SALES OF MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
                    AND MEDICAL ADVERTISEMENTS

Section  Scope of this Part
         False or misleading advertisements and representations
   49.   Prohibition of certain medical advertisements
   50.   Powers to regulate advertisements and representations
   51.   Power of licensing authority to require copies of advertisements
   52.
   53.

                                           PART 6

         MISCELLANEOUS AND SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS

   54. Application of this Act to certain articles and substances
   55. Application of this Act to certain other substances which are not

            medicinal products
   56. Rights of entry
   57. Power to inspect, take samples and seize goods and documents
   58. Supplementary provisions as to rights of entry and related rights
   59. Seizure or detention of goods subject to prohibition or restriction
   60. Forfeiture of goods seized
   61. Disposal of goods forfeited
   62. Restrictions on disclosure of information
   63. Protection for officers
   64. Contravention due to default of other person
   65. Warranty as defence
   66. Offences in relation to warranties
   67. Offences by bodies corporate
   68. Certificate of analysis
   69. Presumptions
   70. Service of documents
   71. Jurisdiction of District and Magistrate’s Courts
   72. Composition of offences
   72A. Fees, charges, etc., collected by licensing authority to be paid to

            appropriate Authority
   73. Advisory committees
   74. Regulations
   75. Application of other written law not affected
   76. Repeal and consequential amendments

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                                4

Section   Act not to apply to products categorised and regulated as health
   77.    products under Health Products Act 2007
          First Schedule — Diseases and conditions
          Second Schedule — Amendments to the Poisons Act 1938

An Act to make provisions with respect to medicinal products and
  medical advertisements and matters connected therewith; and to
  make consequential amendments to the Poisons Act 1938.

                [24 June 1977: Parts I and II, sections 30, 31, 34, and 35
                  of Part III, Part V and sections 54 to 75 of Part VII ;
                                               15 November 1977: Part VI ;
                                                  16 January 1981: Part IV ;

                3 May 1993: Part III except sections 30, 31, 34 and 35 ]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1.—(1) This Act is the Medicines Act 1975.

 (2) Section 76 and the Second Schedule come into operation on a
date that the Minister appoints by notification in the Gazette.

                                                                                                        [S 759/2022]

General interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “administration” means giving or applying to a human being or
         an animal, whether orally, by injection or by introduction into
         the body in any other way, or by external application, whether
         by direct contact with the body or not; and any reference in
         this Act to administering a substance or article is a reference
         to administering it either in its existing state or after it has
         been dissolved or dispersed in, or diluted or mixed with,
         some other substance used as a vehicle;

      “analysis” includes micro-biological assay and “analyse” has a
         corresponding meaning;

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
5  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

   “analyst” means an analyst appointed by the licensing authority;

   “animal” includes any bird, fish or reptile;

   “assemble”, in relation to a medicinal product, means enclosing
      the product (with or without other medicinal products of the
      same description) in a container which is labelled before the
      product is sold or supplied, or, where the product (with or
      without other medicinal products of the same description) is
      already enclosed in the container in which it is to be sold or
      supplied, labelling the container before the product is sold or
      supplied in it, and “assembly” has a corresponding meaning;

   “Authority” means the Health Sciences Authority established
      under the Health Sciences Authority Act 2001;

   “Chief Executive of the Authority” means the person appointed
      under section 15 of the Health Sciences Authority Act 2001
      to be the Chief Executive of the Authority;

   “clinical trial” means an investigation or series of investigations
      consisting of the administration of one or more medicinal
      products of a particular description by, or under the direction
      of —

   (a) a doctor or dentist to one or more of his or her
        patients; or

   (b) two or more doctors or dentists, each product being
        administered by or under the direction of one or other
        of those doctors or dentists to one or more of his or
        her patients,

   where (in any such case) there is evidence that medicinal
   products of that description have effects which may be
   beneficial to the patient or patients in question and the
   administration of the product or products is for the purpose of
   ascertaining whether, or to what extent the product has, or the
   products have, those or any other effects, whether beneficial
   or harmful;

   “composition”, in relation to a medicinal product, means the
      ingredients of which it consists and the proportions, and the

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        6

          degrees of strength, quality and purity, in which those
          ingredients are contained in it respectively;

“container”, in relation to a medicinal product, means the bottle,
   jar, box, packet or other receptacle which contains or is to
   contain it, not being a capsule, cachet, or other article in
   which the product is or is to be administered, and where any
   such receptacle is or is to be contained in another such
   receptacle, includes the former but does not include the latter
   receptacle;

“contravention” includes failure to comply and “contravene”
   has a corresponding meaning;

“dentist” means a person registered under the Dental
   Registration Act 1999 whose name appears in the first
   division of the Register of Dentists;

“disease” includes any injury, ailment or adverse condition
   whether of body or mind;

“doctor” means a person registered under the Medical
   Registration Act 1997;

“herbal remedy” means a medicinal product consisting of a
   substance produced by subjecting a plant or plants to drying,
   crushing or other process or of a mixture whose ingredients
   are 2 or more substances so produced, or of a combination of
   such mixture with water or such other inert substances as the
   licensing authority may, by notification in the Gazette,
   specify;

“hospital” includes any institution for the reception and
   treatment of the sick and designated as a hospital by the
   Minister for the purposes of this Act;

“import” means import into Singapore whether by land, sea or
   air and “export” has a corresponding meaning;

“ingredient”, in relation to the manufacture or preparation of a
   substance, includes anything which is the sole active
   ingredient of that substance as manufactured or prepared;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
7  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

   “labelling”, in relation to a container or package of medicinal
      products, means affixing to or otherwise displaying on it a
      notice describing or otherwise relating to the contents, and
      “label” has a corresponding meaning;

   “leaflet” includes any written information;

   “licensing authority” means the appropriate licensing authority
      as defined in section 4(1);

   “manufacture”, in relation to a medicinal product, includes any
      process carried out in the course of making the product, but
      does not include dissolving or dispersing the product in, or
      diluting or mixing it with, some other substance used as a
      vehicle for the purpose of administering it;

   “medicinal test on animals” means an investigation or series of
      investigations consisting of any of the following:

   (a) the administration of a medicinal product of a
        particular description to one or more animals,
        where there is evidence that medicinal products of
        that description have effects which may be beneficial
        to, or otherwise advantageous in relation to, that
        animal or those animals, and the product is
        administered for the purpose of ascertaining
        whether, or to what extent, it has those or any other
        effects, whether advantageous or otherwise;

   (b) the administration of a medicinal product to one or
        more animals in circumstances where there is no such
        evidence as is mentioned in paragraph (a), and the
        product is administered for the purpose of
        ascertaining whether, or to what extent, it has any
        effects relevant to a medicinal purpose;

   (c) the administration of any substance or article, other
       than a medicinal product, to one or more animals for
       the purpose of ascertaining whether it has any effects
       relevant to a medicinal purpose or whether there is
       evidence that it has effects which may be beneficial

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        8

          to, or otherwise advantageous in relation to, that
          animal or those animals;

“midwife” means a registered midwife within the meaning of
   the Nurses and Midwives Act 1999;

“Minister” means —

          (a) except as provided in paragraph (b), the Minister for
               Health; and

          (b) for the purpose of performing any function under this
               Act (whether by the making of any regulations or
               order or otherwise) where the function is performed
               exclusively in relation to veterinary medicinal
               products and animals, the Minister for National
               Development;

“nurse” means a registered nurse or enrolled nurse within the
   meaning of the Nurses and Midwives Act 1999;

“package”, in relation to any medicinal product, means any box,
   packet or other article in which one or more containers of the
   products are or are to be enclosed, and, where any such box,
   packet or other article is or is to be itself enclosed in one or
   more boxes, packets or other articles, includes each of the
   boxes, packets or articles in question;

“pharmacist” means a person who is registered as a pharmacist
   under the Pharmacists Registration Act 2007 and has in force
   a valid practising certificate issued under that Act;

“plant” includes any part of a plant;

“practitioner” means a doctor, dentist or veterinary surgeon;

“product licence”, “manufacturer’s licence” and “wholesale
   dealer’s licence” have the meanings given by sections 5 and 6
   and include any such provisional licence;

“retail sale”, in relation to a medicinal product, has the meaning
   given by subsection (2);

“sell” includes barter, and also includes offering or attempting to
   sell, or receiving for sale, or having in possession for sale, or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
9  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

   exposing for sale, or sending or delivering for sale, or causing
   or allowing to be sold, offered or exposed for sale, and “sale”
   and “sold” have corresponding meanings;

   “substance” means any natural or artificial substance whether in
      solid or liquid form or in the form of gas or vapour;

   “supply” includes having in possession for the purpose of
      supply;

   “treatment”, in relation to disease, includes anything done or
      provided for alleviating the effects of the disease, whether it
      is done or provided by way of cure or not;

   “veterinary medicinal products” means medicinal products
      which are manufactured, sold, supplied, imported or
      exported for the purpose of being administered to animals,
      but not for the purpose of being administered to human
      beings;

   “veterinary surgeon” means a person who holds a veterinary
      qualification approved by the Minister and who is licensed to
      treat, vaccinate or inoculate animals or birds under
      section 53(1) of the Animals and Birds Act 1965;

   “wholesale dealing”, in relation to a medicinal product, has the
      meaning given by subsection (2).

                                                                   [46/99; 4/2001; 22/2007; 48/2007; 4/2021]

   (2) In this Act any reference to —

   (a) selling anything by way of wholesale dealing is a reference
        to selling it to a person as being a person who buys it for the
        purpose of selling or supplying it in the course of a
        business carried on by that person except that it does not
        include any such sale by the person who manufactured it;

   (b) selling by retail, or to retail sale, is a reference to selling a
        substance or article to a person as being a person who buys
        it otherwise than for a purpose specified in paragraph (a);
        and

   (c) supplying anything in circumstances corresponding to
       retail sale is a reference to supplying it, otherwise than by

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        10

          way of sale, to a person as being a person who receives it
          for a purpose other than that of selling or supplying.

Meaning of “medicinal product” and related expressions

 3.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this section, in this
Act “medicinal product” means any substance or article (not being an
instrument, apparatus or appliance) which is manufactured, sold,
supplied, imported or exported for use wholly or mainly in either or
both of the following ways:

       (a) use by being administered to one or more human beings or
            animals for a medicinal purpose;

       (b) use as an ingredient in the preparation of a substance or
            article which is to be administered to one or more human
            beings or animals for a medicinal purpose.

 (2) In this Act, “a medicinal purpose” means any one or more of the
following purposes:

       (a) treating or preventing disease;

       (b) diagnosing disease or ascertaining the existence, degree or
            extent of a physiological condition;

       (c) contraception;

       (d) inducing anaesthesia;

       (e) otherwise preventing or interfering with the normal
            operation of a physiological function, whether
            permanently or temporarily, and whether by way of
            terminating, reducing or postponing, or increasing or
            accelerating, the operation of that function or in any
            other way.

 (3) Despite subsection (1), in this Act “medicinal product” does not
include any substance or article which is manufactured for use wholly
or mainly by being administered to one or more human beings or
animals, where it is to be administered to them —

       (a) in the course of the business of the manufacturer or on
            behalf of the manufacturer in the course of the business of a

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
11  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

    laboratory or research establishment carried on by another
    person;

    (b) solely by way of a test for ascertaining what effects it has
         when so administered; and

    (c) in circumstances where the manufacturer has no
        knowledge of any evidence that those effects are likely
        to be beneficial to those human beings, or beneficial to, or
        otherwise advantageous in relation to, those animals, as the
        case may be,

and which (having been so manufactured) is not sold, supplied or
exported for use wholly or mainly in any way not fulfilling all the
conditions specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c).

(4) In this Act, “medicinal product” also does not include —

    (a) substances used in dental surgery for filling dental cavities;

    (b) bandages and other surgical dressings, except medicated
         dressings where the medication has a palliative or curative
         function which is not limited to sterilising the dressings;
         and

    (c) substances and articles of such other description or classes
        as the Minister may specify by order.

 (5) Where in accordance with subsections (1) to (4) a substance or
article is a medicinal product immediately after it has been
manufactured, imported or exported as mentioned in
subsection (1), or immediately after the first occasion on which it
has been sold or supplied as mentioned in that subsection, then it does
not cease to be a medicinal product for the purposes of this Act by
reason only that, at any subsequent time, it is sold, supplied, imported
or exported for use wholly or mainly in a way other than those
specified in subsection (1).

 (6) For the purposes of this Act, medicinal products are of the same
description if —

    (a) they are manufactured to the same specification; and

    (b) they are, or are to be, sold, supplied, imported or exported
         in the same pharmaceutical form,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        12

and in this Act “description”, in relation to medicinal products, is to
be construed accordingly.

 (7) For the purposes of this Act a document, advertisement or
representation is to be taken to be likely to mislead as to the uses or
effects of medicinal products of a particular description if it is likely
to mislead as to any of the following matters:

(a) any purposes for which medicinal products of that
     description can with reasonable safety be used;

(b) any purposes for which such products cannot be so used;

          (c) any effects which such products when used, or when used
              in any particular way referred to in the document,
              advertisement or representation, produce or are intended
              to produce.

                                    PART 2

         LICENCES AND CERTIFICATES RELATING TO
                        MEDICINAL PRODUCTS

Licensing authority

 4.—(1) For the purposes of this Part, the authority responsible for
the grant, renewal, variation, suspension and revocation of licences
and certificates is —

       (a) except as provided in paragraph (b), the Chief Executive of
            the Authority; and

       (b) the Director‑General, Animal Health and Welfare
            appointed under section 3(1) of the Animals and Birds
            Act 1965 in respect of any function to be performed under
            this Act exclusively in relation to veterinary medicinal
            products and animals.

                                                                                                 [4/2001; 10/2019]

 (2) Any function conferred on the licensing authority by this Act
may be performed by such officers as the licensing authority may
designate, subject to the licensing authority’s general direction and
control.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
13  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

 (3) Any person to whom a licensing authority refuses to grant,
renew or vary a licence or whose licence has been suspended or
revoked may appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

General provisions as to dealing with medicinal products

 5.—(1) Except in accordance with a licence granted for the
purposes of this section (called in this Act a product licence) a
person must not in circumstances to which this section applies —

       (a) sell, supply or export any medicinal product;

       (b) procure the sale, supply or export of any medicinal
            product; or

       (c) procure the manufacture or assembly of any medicinal
            product for sale, supply or export.

 (2) A person must not import any medicinal product except in
accordance with a product licence or an import licence.

 (3) In relation to an imported medicinal product, this section applies
to circumstances in which the person selling, supplying or exporting
the medicinal product in question, or procuring the sale, supply or
export or the manufacture or assembly for sale, supply or export of
that product, has himself or herself imported the product or procured
its import.

 (4) In relation to any medicinal product which has not been
imported, this section applies to any circumstances in which the
person selling, supplying or exporting the medicinal product in
question, or procuring the sale, supply or export or the manufacture or
assembly for sale, supply or export of that product, is responsible for
the composition of the product.

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (4), a person is taken to be
responsible for the composition of a medicinal product if —

       (a) the person procures the manufacture of the product to the
            person’s order by another person, where the order
            specifies, or incorporates by reference to some other
            document, particulars of the composition of the product
            ordered, whether those particulars amount to a complete
            specification or not; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        14

(b) the person manufactures the product otherwise than
     pursuant to an order which fulfils the conditions
     specified in paragraph (a).

Provisions as to manufacture and wholesale dealing

 6.—(1) This section has effect without affecting section 5.

 (2) A person must not manufacture or assemble any medicinal
product except in accordance with a licence granted for the purposes
of this subsection (called in this Act a manufacturer’s licence).

 (3) A person must not sell any medicinal product by way of
wholesale dealing except in accordance with a licence granted for the
purposes of this subsection (called in this Act a wholesale dealer’s
licence).

 (4) A manufacturer’s licence does not have effect so as to authorise
the manufacture or assembly of medicinal products of any description
for sale or supply to any other person, or for export, unless —

       (a) the holder of the licence is also the holder of a product
            licence which is applicable to medicinal products of that
            description; or

       (b) the products are manufactured or assembled to the order of
            a person who is the holder of such a product licence,

and the products are manufactured or assembled in accordance with
that product licence.

Exemptions for pharmacists and practitioners

 7.—(1) The restrictions imposed by sections 5 and 6 do not apply to
anything which is done in a hospital by or under the supervision of a
pharmacist —

       (a) in preparing or dispensing a medicinal product in
            accordance with a prescription given by a practitioner;

       (b) in assembling a medicinal product; or

       (c) in procuring the preparation or dispensing of a medicinal
            product in accordance with a prescription given by a

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
15  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

            practitioner, or in procuring the assembly of a medicinal
            product.

                                                                                                             [4/2021]

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), the restrictions imposed by
sections 5 and 6 do not apply to anything which is done in a hospital
by or under the supervision of a pharmacist —

    (a) in preparing or dispensing a medicinal product for
         administration to a person where the pharmacist is
         requested by or on behalf of that person to do so in
         accordance with the pharmacist’s own judgment as to the
         treatment required, and that person is present in the
         pharmacy at the time of the request pursuant to which
         that product is prepared or dispensed; or

       (b) in preparing a stock of medicinal products with a view to
            dispensing them as mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or in
            paragraph (a).

                                                                                                             [4/2021]

 (3) The restrictions imposed by sections 5 and 6 do not apply to the
preparation, dispensing and assembly of any medicinal product by or
under the supervision of a practitioner for the purpose of
administration to a patient or animal under the practitioner’s care.

 (4) The exemptions conferred by subsections (1), (2) and (3) do not
apply to veterinary biologics except where such veterinary biologics
are prepared in a veterinary centre.

                                                                                                             [4/2021]

 (5) For the purpose of subsection (4) —

    “veterinary biologics” means aggressions, serums, viruses,
       toxins, tuberculin, mallein, Johnin, abortin, vaccines,
       micro‑organisms either living or killed, and products of
       micro‑organisms intended for use in the treatment or
       diagnosis of diseases of animals and birds;

    “veterinary centre” means a veterinary centre established under
       section 54 of the Animals and Birds Act 1965.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        16

Exemption in respect of herbal remedies

 8.—(1) The restrictions imposed by sections 5 and 6 do not apply to
the import, sale, supply, manufacture or assembly of any herbal
remedy where —

(a) the remedy is manufactured or assembled on premises of
     which the person carrying on the business is the occupier
     and which the person is able to close so as to exclude the
     public; and

(b) the person carrying on the business sells or supplies the
     remedy for administration to a particular person after being
     requested by or on behalf of that person and in that person’s
     presence to use that person’s judgment as to the treatment
     required.

 (2) Those restrictions also do not apply to the import, sale, supply,
manufacture or assembly of any herbal remedy where the process to
which the plant or plants are subjected in producing the remedy
consists only of drying, crushing or comminuting, and the remedy is,
or is to be, sold or supplied without any written recommendation
(whether by means of a labelled container or package or a leaflet or in
any other way) as to the use of the remedy.

General exemptions

 9. The Minister may by order —

       (a) provide that, in relation to any medicinal product which
            was available for sale in Singapore immediately before
            24 June 1977, sections 5 and 6 have effect only after the
            period specified in the order; and

       (b) provide for any other exemptions from the restrictions
            imposed by sections 5 and 6 that the Minister thinks fit.

Register of medicinal products and import licence

 10.—(1) The licensing authority must maintain a register in which
must be entered all medicinal products in respect of which product
licences have been granted and remain in force.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
17  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

 (2) The register must be in such form and contain such particulars
as the licensing authority may determine.

 (3) The licensing authority may, on application by a person who is
not the holder of a product licence, grant an import licence to that
person to import any medicinal product for sale or supply where the
licensing authority is satisfied that that product is in all respects the
same as a medicinal product registered under subsection (1).

Application for licence

 11.—(1) Any application for the grant of a licence under this Part
must be made to the licensing authority and must be made in the form
and manner, and must contain, or be accompanied by, such
information, documents, samples and other material, as the
licensing authority may require.

 (2) Any such application must indicate the descriptions of
medicinal products in respect of which the licence is required,
either by specifying the descriptions of medicinal products in
question or by way of an appropriate general classification.

Factors relevant to determination of application for licence

 12.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this Part, in dealing
with an application for a product licence the licensing authority must
in particular take into consideration —

       (a) the safety of medicinal products of each description to
            which the application relates;

       (b) the efficacy of medicinal products of each such description
            for the purposes for which the products are proposed to be
            administered;

       (c) the quality of medicinal products of each such description,
            according to the specification and the method or proposed
            method of manufacture of the products, and the provisions
            proposed for securing that the products as sold or supplied
            will be of that quality; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        18

       (d) whether the grant of a product licence for the medicinal
            products to which the application relates will be in the
            public interest.

                                                                                                           [15/2007]

 (2) Where any such application indicates that the purposes for
which the licence is required relate (wholly or partly) to medicinal
products which have been or are to be imported, then in dealing with
the application, insofar as it relates to those products, the licensing
authority must also take into consideration in particular the methods,
standards and conditions of manufacture of those products and may, if
the licencing authority thinks fit, require the production by the
applicant of any one or more of the following:

(a) an undertaking, given by the manufacturer of any such
     products, to permit the premises where they are or are to be
     manufactured, and the operations carried on or to be
     carried on in the course of manufacturing them, to be
     inspected by or on behalf of the licensing authority;

(b) an undertaking, given by or on behalf of the manufacturer
     of any such products, to comply with any prescribed
     conditions or any conditions attached to the licence by the
     licensing authority;

          (c) a declaration, given by or on behalf of the manufacturer of
              any such products, that, in relation to the manufacture of
              those products, any requirements imposed by or under the
              law of the country in which they are or are to be
              manufactured have been or will be complied with.

 (3) In dealing with an application for a manufacturer’s licence the
licensing authority must in particular take into consideration —

(a) the operations proposed to be carried out pursuant to the
     licence;

(b) the premises in which those operations are to be carried
     out;

          (c) the equipment which is or will be available on those
              premises for carrying out those operations;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
19  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

    (d) the qualifications of the persons under whose supervision
         those operations will be carried out; and

    (e) the arrangements made or to be made for securing the
        safekeeping of, and the maintenance of adequate records in
        respect of, medicinal products manufactured or assembled
        pursuant to the licence.

 (4) In dealing with an application for a wholesale dealer’s licence
the licensing authority must in particular take into consideration —

    (a) the premises in which medicinal products of the
         descriptions to which the application relates will be stored;

    (b) the equipment which is or will be available for storing
         medicinal products in those premises;

    (c) the equipment and facilities which are or will be available
        for distributing medicinal products from those premises;
        and

    (d) the arrangements made or to be made for securing the
         safekeeping of, and the maintenance of adequate records in
         respect of, medicinal products stored in or distributed from
         those premises.

12A. [Repealed by Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Grant or refusal of licence

 13. Subject to the provisions of this Act, on any application to the
licensing authority for a licence under this Part the licensing
authority —

       (a) may grant a licence containing any provisions that the
            licensing authority considers appropriate; or

       (b) if, having regard to the provisions of this Act, the licensing
            authority considers it necessary or expedient to do so, may
            refuse to grant a licence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        20

Duration and renewal of licence

 14.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this section, every
licence granted under this Part, unless previously revoked, must be
for the prescribed period.

 (2) Any such licence, if it has not been revoked, may, on the
application of the holder of the licence, be renewed by the licensing
authority for the prescribed period or for such shorter period as the
licensing authority may determine.

 (3) On an application to the licensing authority for the renewal of a
licence under this Part, the licensing authority —

(a) may renew the licence, with or without modifications, for
     such further period as is mentioned in subsection (2);

(b) may grant to the applicant a new licence containing any
     provisions that the licensing authority considers
     appropriate; or

          (c) if, having regard to the provisions of this Act, the licensing
              authority considers it necessary or expedient to do so, may
              refuse to renew the licence or to grant a new licence.

 (4) Where an application for the renewal of a licence under this Act
has been duly made, the licence does not cease to be in force by virtue
of subsections (1), (2) and (3) before the licensing authority has
determined the application.

Provisional licences

 15.—(1) The Minister may by regulations provide for the issue of
provisional licences to such persons and on such terms as may be
prescribed.

 (2) Section 12 does not have effect in relation to applications for
provisional licences.

General power to suspend, revoke or vary licences

 16.—(1) Subject to subsection (5), the licensing authority may
suspend a licence under this Part for the period that the Authority
determines or may revoke, or vary the provisions of, any such licence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
21  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the licensing authority may,
upon the request of the holder of a licence, revoke the licence.

                                                                                                           [26/2004]

 (3) [Deleted by Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

 (4) The suspension or revocation of a licence under this section may
be total or may be limited to medicinal products of one or more
descriptions or to medicinal products manufactured, assembled or
stored in any particular premises or in a particular part of any
premises.

 (5) Where the licensing authority proposes to exercise any power
conferred by this section, the licensing authority must serve on the
holder of the licence a notice giving particulars of the suspension,
revocation or variation and of the reasons for the licensing authority’s
decision to suspend, revoke or vary the licence.

(6) [Deleted by Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Variation of licence on application of holder

 17. Without affecting any power exercisable by virtue of section 16,
the licensing authority may, on the application of the holder of a
licence under this Part, vary the provisions of the licence in
accordance with any proposals contained in the application, if the
licensing authority is satisfied that the variation will not adversely
affect the safety, quality or efficacy of medicinal products of any
description to which the licence relates.

Clinical trials and medicinal tests on animals

 18. The Minister may by regulations provide for —

       (a) the conduct of clinical trials, the issue of clinical trial
            certificates, the exemption of clinical trials from sections 5
            and 6, and matters relating to any consent for a subject to
            participate in a clinical trial, including —

               (i) the persons who may so consent;

              (ii) the considerations which any such person must take
                   into account before so consenting;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        22

          (iii) the circumstances in which the consent of such
                person may be relied upon; and

          (iv) the circumstances in which no consent of any person
               is required for the subject’s participation in the trial,

(a) and whether any matter so prescribed has effect in addition
     to or despite any other written law or rule of law;

(b) the conduct of medicinal tests on animals, the issue of
     animal test certificates, the exemption of medicinal tests on
     animals from sections 5 and 6; and

          (c) the control, housing and other restrictions in the sale,
              supply, manufacture, import and export of animal feeding
              stuffs in which medicinal products are incorporated,

and for any matter ancillary or incidental thereto.

                                                                    [29/2015]

Provision of information to licensing authority

 19.—(1) Where an application has been made to the licensing
authority for a licence under this Part the licensing authority, before
determining the application, may request the applicant to furnish to
the licensing authority any information relating to the application that
the licensing authority may consider necessary and, where any such
request has been made the licensing authority is not required to
determine the application until either —

       (a) the information requested has been furnished to the
            licensing authority; or

       (b) it has been shown to the licensing authority’s reasonable
            satisfaction that the applicant is unable to furnish the
            information.

 (2) The licensing authority may serve on the holder of a licence
under this Part, a notice requiring the licence holder, within the time
specified in the notice, to furnish to the licensing authority
information of any description specified in the notice.

 19A. [Repealed by Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

 19B. [Repealed by Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
23  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

19C. [Repealed by Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

19D. [Repealed by Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Offences under this Part

 20.—(1) Subject to section 21, any person who contravenes any of
the provisions of sections 5 and 6, or who is in possession of any
medicinal product for the purpose of selling, supplying or exporting it
in contravention of any of those sections, shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) Where any medicinal product is imported in contravention of
section 5, any person who, otherwise than for the purpose of
performing or exercising a duty or power imposed or conferred by or
under this Act, or any other written law, is in possession of the
product knowing or having reasonable cause to suspect that it was so
imported shall be guilty of an offence.

 (3) Any person who, when making an application under section 11
or giving any information which that person is required to give under
section 19, makes a statement which that person knows or has reason
to believe is false in a material particular, shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [26/2004]

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

 (4) [Deleted by Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

 (5) Any person who without reasonable excuse fails to comply with
a requirement imposed on that person by a notice under section 19(2)
shall be guilty of an offence.

 (6) Any person guilty of an offence under subsection (1), (2) or (3)
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [17/2005]

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

 (7) Any person guilty of an offence under subsection (5) shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

Special defences under section 20

 21.—(1) Where the holder of a product licence is charged with an
offence under section 20 in respect of any medicinal product which

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        24

has been manufactured or assembled to the licence holder’s order by
another person and has been so manufactured or assembled as not to
comply with the provisions of that licence which are applicable to it,
it is a defence for the licence holder to prove —

(a) that the licence holder had communicated those provisions
     to that other person; and

(b) that the licence holder did not know, and could not by the
     exercise of reasonable care have discovered, that those
     provisions had not been complied with.

 (2) Where the holder of a manufacturer’s licence is charged with an
offence under section 20 in respect of any medicinal products which
have been manufactured or assembled by the licence holder, in
circumstances where the licence holder is not the holder of a product
licence which is applicable to those products, but the products were
manufactured or assembled to the order of another person, it is a
defence for the licence holder to prove that the licence holder
believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing —

(a) that the other person in question was the holder of a
     product licence applicable to those products; and

(b) that the products were manufactured or assembled in
     accordance with that product licence.

Certificates for exporters of medicinal products

 22. On the application of any person who proposes to export
medicinal products of any description, the licensing authority may
issue to that person a certificate containing any such statement
relating to medicinal products of that description as the licensing
authority may consider appropriate having regard —

       (a) to any requirements (whether having the force of law or
            not) which have effect in the country to which the products
            are to be exported; and

       (b) to the provisions of this Act and to any licence granted or
            other thing done by virtue of this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
25                 Medicines Act 1975                         2020 Ed.

                   PART 3

    FURTHER PROVISIONS RELATING TO DEALINGS
                 WITH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS

General sale list

 23.—(1) The Minister may by order specify descriptions or classes
of medicinal products, as being products which in the Minister’s
opinion can with reasonable safety be sold or supplied otherwise than
by or under the supervision of a pharmacist.

 (2) In this Act any reference to a medicinal product on a general
sale list is a reference to a medicinal product of a description, or
falling within a class, specified in an order under this section which is
for the time being in force.

Sale or supply of medicinal products not on general sale list

 24. Subject to any exemption conferred by or under this Part, on and
after 3 May 1993, a person must not sell by retail or supply in
circumstances corresponding to retail sale any medicinal product
which is not a medicinal product on a general sale list, unless that
person is or acts under the personal supervision of a pharmacist.

                                                                                                             [4/2021]

Sale or supply of medicinal products on general sale list

 25. This Act does not prevent any person from selling by retail or
supplying in circumstances corresponding to retail sale any medicinal
product on a general sale list subject to any conditions that may be
prescribed for the purposes of this section.

Prohibition of sale of medicinal products from automatic
machines

 26. On and after 3 May 1993, a medicinal product must not be sold
by means of an automatic machine unless it is a medicinal product in
the automatic machine section of a general sale list and complies with
any conditions that may be prescribed.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        26

Exemptions for doctors, dentists and veterinary surgeons and
in respect of herbal remedies

 27.—(1) The restrictions imposed by section 24 do not apply to the
supply of a medicinal product —

(a) by a doctor or dentist to his or her patient; or

(b) by a hospital where the product is supplied for the purpose
     of being administered in accordance with the directions of
     a doctor or a dentist.

 (2) The restrictions imposed by that section do not apply to the
supply of a medicinal product by a veterinary surgeon for
administration by him or her or under his or her direction to an
animal under his or her care.

 (3) The restrictions imposed by that section do not apply to
anything done at premises of which the person carrying on the
business in question is the occupier and which the person is able to
close so as to exclude the public, and which consists of the sale or the
supply in circumstances corresponding to retail sale of a herbal
remedy where the processes to which the plant or plants are subjected
consist of drying, crushing or comminuting, with or without diluting
with water, but not any other process.

Power to extend or modify exemptions

 28.—(1) The Minister may by order provide that section 24 has
effect subject to such exemptions (other than those for the time being
having effect by virtue of section 27) as may be specified in the order.

 (2) Any exemption conferred by an order under subsection (1) may
be conferred subject to such conditions or limitations as may be
specified in the order.

 (3) The Minister may by order provide that section 27 has effect
subject to such exceptions or modifications as may be specified in the
order.

Medicinal products on prescription only

 29.—(1) The Minister may by order specify descriptions or classes
of medicinal products for the purposes of this section; and, in relation

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
27                 Medicines Act 1975                         2020 Ed.

to any description or class so specified, the order must state which of
the following are to be appropriate practitioners for the purposes of
this section:

    (a) doctors;

    (b) dentists;

    (c) veterinary surgeons.

(2) Subject to the following provisions of this section —

    (a) a person must not sell by retail, or supply in circumstances
         corresponding to retail sale, a medicinal product of a
         description, or falling within a class, specified in an order
         under this section except in accordance with a prescription
         given by an appropriate practitioner;

    (b) a person must not administer (otherwise than to himself or
         herself) any such medicinal product unless the person is an
         appropriate practitioner or a person acting in accordance
         with the directions of an appropriate practitioner.

 (3) An order made by the Minister for the purposes of this section
may provide —

    (a) that subsection (2)(a) or (b), or subsection (2)(a) and (b),
         has effect subject to any exemptions that may be specified
         in the order; or

    (b) that, for the purpose of subsection (2)(a), a medicinal
         product must not be taken to be supplied in accordance
         with a prescription given by an appropriate practitioner
         unless the conditions that are prescribed by the order are
         fulfilled.

 (4) Any exemption conferred by an order in accordance with
subsection (3)(a) may be conferred subject to such conditions or
limitations as may be specified in the order.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        28

Prohibition of sale, supply or import of medicinal products of
specified description or of animal feeding stuffs incorporating
such products

 30.—(1) The Minister may, where it appears to him or her to be
necessary to do so in the interests of safety, by order —

(a) prohibit the sale or supply, or the import, of medicinal
     products of any description, or falling within any class,
     specified in the order; and

(b) prohibit the sale or supply, or the import, of animal feeding
     stuffs in which medicinal products of any description, or
     falling within any class, specified in the order have been
     incorporated.

 (2) A prohibition imposed by order under this section may be a total
prohibition or may be imposed subject to any exceptions that may be
specified in the order.

Adulteration of medicinal products

 31. A person must not —

       (a) add any substance to, or abstract any substance from, a
            medicinal product so as to affect injuriously the
            composition of the product, with intent that the product
            is to be sold or supplied in that state; or

       (b) sell or supply any medicinal product whose composition
            has been injuriously affected by the addition or abstraction
            of any substance.

Protection of purchasers of medicinal products

 32.—(1) A person must not, to the prejudice of the purchaser, sell
any medicinal product which is not of the nature or quality demanded
by the purchaser.

 (2) For the purposes of this section the sale of a medicinal product
must not be taken to be otherwise than to the prejudice of the
purchaser by reason only that the purchaser buys the product for the
purpose of analysis or examination.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
29  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

 (3) Subsection (1) must not be taken to be contravened by reason
only that a medicinal product contains some extraneous matter, if it is
proved that the presence of that matter was an inevitable consequence
of the process of manufacture of the product.

 (4) Subsection (1) must not be taken to be contravened by reason
only that a substance has been added to, or abstracted from, the
medicinal product, if it is proved that —

    (a) the addition or abstraction was not carried out fraudulently,
         and did not injuriously affect the composition of the
         product; and

    (b) the product was sold having attached to it, or to a container
         or package in which it was sold, a conspicuous notice of
         adequate size and legibly printed, specifying the substance
         added or abstracted.

 (5) Where a medicinal product is sold or supplied pursuant to a
prescription given by a practitioner, subsections (1) to (4) have effect
as if —

    (a) in those provisions any reference to sale included a
         reference to supply and (except as provided by
         paragraph (b)) any reference to the purchaser included a
         reference to the person for whom the product was
         prescribed by the practitioner; and

    (b) in subsection (1), for the words “demanded by the
         purchaser”, there were substituted the words “specified
         in the prescription”.

Compliance with standards specified in monographs in certain
publications

 33.—(1) A person must not —

       (a) sell a medicinal product which has been demanded by the
            purchaser by or by express reference to a particular name;
            or

       (b) sell or supply a medicinal product pursuant to a
            prescription given by a practitioner in which the product

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        30

          required is described by or by express reference to a
          particular name,

if that name is a name at the head of the relevant monograph and the
product does not comply with the standard specified in that
monograph.

 (2) A person must not sell or supply a medicinal product by or by
express reference to a particular name, if that name is a name at the
head of the relevant monograph unless the product complies with the
standard specified in that monograph.

 (3) Where a medicinal product is sold or supplied in the
circumstances specified in subsection (1) or (2), and the name in
question is the name, not of the product itself, but of an active
ingredient of the product, then for the purposes of the subsection in
question the product must be taken not to comply with the standard
specified in the relevant monograph if, insofar as it consists of that
ingredient, it does not comply with the standard so specified.

 (4) In this section “publication” means one of the following, that is
to say, the British Pharmacopoeia, the European Pharmacopoeia or
the United States Pharmacopoeia, the British Pharmaceutical Codex
and the British Veterinary Codex; and “the relevant monograph”, in
relation to the sale or supply of a medicinal product by or by express
reference to a particular name —

(a) if, together with that name, there was specified a particular
     edition of a particular publication, means the monograph
     headed by that name in that edition of that publication or if
     there is no such monograph in that edition, means the
     appropriate current monograph headed by that name;

(b) if, together with that name, there was specified a particular
     publication, but not a particular edition of that publication,
     means the monograph headed by that name in the current
     edition of that publication, or, if there is no such
     monograph in that edition, means the appropriate current
     monograph headed by that name, or, in default of such a
     monograph, means the monograph headed by that name in
     the latest edition of the specified publication which
     contained a monograph so headed;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
31  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

    (c) if no publication was specified together with that name,
        means the appropriate current monograph,

and “current” means current at the time when the medicinal product
in question is sold or supplied.

 (5) In this section “the appropriate current monograph”, in relation
to a particular name, means —

    (a) the monograph headed by that name in the current edition
         of the British Pharmacopoeia, the European
         Pharmacopoeia or the United States Pharmacopoeia; or

    (b) if there is no such monograph, then the monograph headed
         by that name in the current edition of the British
         Pharmaceutical Codex or the British Veterinary Codex.

(6) For the purposes of this section an edition of a publication —

    (a) if it is the current edition of that publication, must be taken
         as it is for the time being in force (that is to say, together
         with any amendments, additions and deletions made to it
         up to the time mentioned in subsection (4)); or

    (b) if it is an edition previous to the current edition of that
         publication, must be taken as it was immediately before the
         time when it was superseded by a subsequent edition of
         that publication (that is to say, together with any
         amendments, additions and deletions made to it up to
         that time),

and any monograph in an edition of a publication is to be construed in
accordance with any general monograph or notice or any appendix,
note or other explanatory material which is contained in that edition
and is applicable to that monograph, and any reference in this section
to compliance with the standard specified in a monograph is to be
construed accordingly.

(7) The Minister may by order amend subsections (4), (5) and (6).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        32

Further powers to regulate dealings with medicinal products

 34.—(1) The Minister may by regulations prescribe any
requirements that the Minister may consider necessary or expedient
with respect to any of the following matters:

(a) the manner in which, or persons under whose supervision,
     medicinal products may be prepared or may be dispensed;

(b) the amount of space to be provided in any premises for
     persons preparing or dispensing medicinal products, the
     separation of any such space from the remainder of the
     premises, and the facilities to be provided in any premises
     for such persons;

          (c) the amount of space to be provided in any premises for the
              sale or supply of medicinal products;

(d) the accommodation (including the amount of space) to be
     provided in any premises for members of the public to
     whom medicinal products are sold or supplied or for whom
     medicinal products are being prepared or assembled;

          (e) the amount of space to be provided in any premises for the
              storage of medicinal products;

          (f) the safekeeping of medicinal products;

(g) the disposal of medicinal products which have become
     unusable or otherwise unwanted;

(h) precautions to be observed before medicinal products are
     sold or supplied;

          (i) the keeping of records relating to the sale or supply of
              medicinal products;

          (j) the supply of medicinal products distributed as samples;

          (k) sanitation, cleanliness, temperature, humidity or other
              factors relating to the risks of deterioration or
              contamination in connection with the manufacture,
              storage, transport, sale or supply of medicinal products;

          (l) the construction, location and use of automatic machines
              for the sale of medicinal products.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
33  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the regulations may prescribe
requirements in respect of —

    (a) the construction, layout, drainage, equipment,
         maintenance, ventilation, lighting and water supply of
         premises at or from which medicinal products are
         manufactured, stored, transported, sold or supplied;

    (b) the disposal of refuse at or from any such premises; and

    (c) any apparatus, equipment, furnishings or utensils used at
        any such premises.

Offences under this Part

 35.—(1) Any person who contravenes section 24, 26, 29, 31, 32 or
33 or who contravenes any order made under section 30, shall be
guilty of an offence.

 (2) Where a medicinal product is sold, supplied or imported in
contravention of an order made under section 30, any person who,
otherwise than for the purpose of performing or exercising a duty or
power imposed or conferred by or under this Act or any other written
law, is in possession of the medicinal product, knowing or having
reasonable cause to suspect that it was sold, supplied or imported in
contravention of the order, shall be guilty of an offence.

 (3) Any person guilty of an offence under subsection (1) or (2) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (4) Any person who contravenes any conditions prescribed for the
purpose of section 25 shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

 36. to 43. [Repealed by Act 4 of 2021]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        34

          PART 4

CONTAINERS, PACKAGES AND IDENTIFICATION
               OF MEDICINAL PRODUCTS

Labelling and marking of containers and packages

 44.—(1) The Minister may by regulations impose any requirements
that the Minister considers necessary or expedient with respect to any
of the following matters:

(a) the labelling of containers of medicinal products;

(b) the labelling of packages of medicinal products;

          (c) the display of distinctive marks on containers and packages
              of medicinal products.

 (2) A person must not sell or supply any medicinal product in such
circumstances as to contravene any requirements imposed by the
regulations mentioned in subsection (1).

 (3) Insofar as any such requirements relate to the labelling or
marking of containers of medicinal products, a person who sells or
supplies a medicinal product to which the requirements are applicable
without it being enclosed in a container is, except insofar as the
regulations otherwise provide, taken to contravene those
requirements as if the person had sold or supplied it in a container
not complying with those requirements.

 (4) Without affecting subsections (1), (2) and (3), a person must not
sell or supply a medicinal product of any description in a container or
package which is labelled or marked in such a way that the container
or package —

(a) falsely describes the product; or

(b) is likely to mislead as to the nature or quality of the product
     or as to the uses or effects of medicinal products of that
     description.

Leaflets

 45.—(1) The Minister may by regulations impose any requirements
that the Minister considers necessary or expedient with respect to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
35  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

leaflets relating to medicinal products which are supplied, or are
intended to be supplied, with the products, whether by being enclosed
in containers or packages of the products or otherwise.

 (2) A person must not supply with any medicinal products, or have
in the person’s possession for the purpose of so supplying, a leaflet
which contravenes any requirements imposed by the regulations
mentioned in subsection (1).

 (3) Without affecting subsections (1) and (2), a person must not
supply with a medicinal product of any description, or have in the
person’s possession for the purpose of so supplying, a leaflet
which —

    (a) falsely describes the product; or

    (b) is likely to mislead as to the nature or quality of the product
         or as to the uses or effects of medicinal products of that
         description.

Requirements as to containers

 46.—(1) The Minister may by regulations prohibit the sale or
supply of medicinal products otherwise than in containers which
comply with any requirements that the Minister considers necessary
or expedient and in particular may require such containers to be of
such strength, to be made of such materials and to be of such shapes
or patterns, as may be prescribed.

 (2) A person must not sell or supply, or have in the person’s
possession for the purpose of sale or supply, any medicinal product in
such circumstances as to contravene any requirements imposed by
the regulations mentioned in subsection (1).

Distinctive colours, shapes and markings of medicinal products

 47.—(1) The Minister may by regulations impose any requirements
that the Minister considers necessary or expedient with respect to any
one or more of the following matters:

       (a) the colour of medicinal products;

       (b) the shape of medicinal products;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        36

          (c) the distinctive marks to be displayed on medicinal
              products.

 (2) The regulations mentioned in subsection (1) may provide that
medicinal products of any such description, or falling within any such
class, as may be specified in the regulations must not, except in such
circumstances (if any) as may be so specified, be of any such colour
or shape, or display any such mark, as may be so specified.

 (3) A person must not sell or supply, or have in the person’s
possession for the purpose of sale or supply, any medicinal product
which contravenes any requirements imposed by the regulations
mentioned in subsection (1).

Offences under this Part and supplementary provisions

 48. Any person who contravenes section 44(2), (3) or (4), 45(2) or
(3), 46(2) or 47(3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                    PART 5

     PROMOTION OF SALES OF MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
                 AND MEDICAL ADVERTISEMENTS

Scope of this Part

 49.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this section, in this
Part “advertisement” includes every form of advertising, whether in a
publication, or by the display of any notice or signboard, or by means
of any catalogue, price list, letter (whether circular or addressed to a
particular person) or other documents, or by words inscribed on any
article, or by the exhibition of a photograph or a cinematograph film,
or by way of sound recording, sound broadcasting or television, or in
any other way, and any reference to the issue of an advertisement is to
be construed accordingly.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), in this Part “advertisement” does not
include spoken words except —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
37                  Medicines Act 1975                        2020 Ed.

    (a) words forming part of a sound recording or embodied in a
         soundtrack associated with a cinematograph film; and

    (b) words broadcast by way of sound broadcasting or
         television or transmitted to subscribers to a diffusion
         service.

 (3) Except as provided by section 52, for the purposes of this Part
neither of the following is to be taken to constitute the issue of an
advertisement:

    (a) the sale or supply of a medicinal product in a labelled
         container or package;

    (b) the supply, with a medicinal product of any description, of
         a leaflet relating solely to medicinal products of that
         description.

(4) In this Part —

    “medical advertisement” means an advertisement relating or
       likely to cause any person to believe that it relates to any
       medicinal product or any device, instrument, apparatus or
       contrivance used or represented to be used for a medicinal
       purpose;

    “representation” means any statement or undertaking (whether
       constituting a condition or a warranty or not) which consists
       of spoken words other than words falling within
       subsection (2)(a) or (b), and any reference to making a
       representation is to be construed accordingly.

False or misleading advertisements and representations

 50.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this section, any
person who issues or causes another person to issue a false or
misleading advertisement relating to medicinal products of any
description shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) Where a licence under Part 2 is in force which is applicable to
medicinal products of a particular description, and, in accordance
with the provisions of the licence, the purposes for which medicinal
products of that description may be recommended to be used are
limited to those specified in the licence, then, subject to the following

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        38

provisions of this section, any person who issues or causes another
person to issue an advertisement relating to medicinal products of that
description which consists of or includes unauthorised
recommendations shall be guilty of an offence.

 (3) Subject to the following provisions of this section, any person
who makes a false or misleading representation relating to a
medicinal product in connection with the sale of that product shall
be guilty of an offence; and any person who makes a false or
misleading representation relating to medicinal products of a
particular description —

(a) to a practitioner for the purpose of inducing the practitioner
     to prescribe or supply medicinal products of that
     description;

(b) to a patient or client of a practitioner for the purpose of
     inducing the patient or client to request the practitioner to
     prescribe medicinal products of that description; or

          (c) to a person for the purpose of inducing the person to
              purchase medicinal products of that description from a
              person selling them by retail,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (4) Where in the circumstances specified in subsection (2) any
person —

(a) in connection with the sale of a medicinal product of the
     description in question, makes a representation relating to
     the product which consists of or includes unauthorised
     recommendations; or

(b) for any such purpose specified in subsection (3)(a), (b) and
     (c) makes a representation relating to medicinal products
     of that description which consists of or includes
     unauthorised recommendations,

that person, subject to the following provisions of this section, shall
be guilty of an offence.

 (5) Where a person is charged with an offence under this section, it
is a defence for the person to prove —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
39  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

    (a) where the offence charged is under subsection (1) or (3),
         that the person did not know, and could not with reasonable
         diligence have discovered, that the advertisement or
         representation was false or misleading;

    (b) where the offence charged is under subsection (2) or (4),
         that the person did not know, and could not with reasonable
         diligence have discovered, that the recommendations made
         by the advertisement or representation were unauthorised
         recommendations.

 (6) For the purposes of this section an advertisement (whether it
contains an accurate statement of the composition of medicinal
products of the description in question or not) is to be taken to be false
or misleading if —

    (a) it falsely describes the description of medicinal products to
         which it relates; or

    (b) it is likely to mislead as to the nature or quality of
         medicinal products of that description or as to their uses or
         effects,

and any reference in this section to a false or misleading
representation is to be construed in a corresponding way.

 (7) Any person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (8) In this section “unauthorised recommendations”, in relation to
the circumstances specified in subsection (2), means
recommendations whereby medicinal products of a description to
which the licence in question is applicable are recommended to be
used for purposes other than those specified in the licence.

Prohibition of certain medical advertisements

 51.—(1) A person must not publish or cause to be published —

       (a) any medical advertisement which directly or indirectly
            claims, indicates or suggests that the article advertised will
            prevent, alleviate or cure any disease or condition specified
            in the First Schedule; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.            Medicines Act 1975                              40

(b) any advertisement referring to any skill or service relating
     to the treatment of any disease or condition affecting the
     human body.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to any advertisement which is
distributed only to, or is contained in a publication intended for
circulation mainly among one or more of the following classes of
persons:

(a) practitioners;

(b) pharmacists;

          (c) nurses and midwives;

(d) persons undergoing training with a view to becoming
     practitioners, pharmacists or nurses and midwives.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

(4) The Minister may by order —

(a) amend the First Schedule; and

(b) exempt any advertisement or class of advertisements from
     subsection (1).

Powers to regulate advertisements and representations

 52.—(1) The Minister may by regulations prohibit any one or more
of the following:

       (a) the issue of advertisements relating to medicinal products
            of a description, or falling within a class, specified in the
            regulations;

       (b) the issue of advertisements likely to lead to the use of any
            medicinal product, or any other substance or article, for the
            purpose of treating or preventing a disease specified in the
            regulations or for the purpose of diagnosis of a disease so
            specified or of ascertaining the existence, degree or extent
            of a physiological condition so specified or of permanently
            or temporarily preventing or otherwise interfering with the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
41  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

    normal operation of a physiological function so specified,
    or for the purpose of artificially inducing a condition of
    body or mind so specified;

    (c) the issue of advertisements likely to lead to the use of
        medicinal products of a particular description or falling
        within a particular class specified in the regulations, or the
        use of any other substance or article of a description or
        class so specified, for any such purpose as is mentioned in
        paragraph (b);

    (d) the issue of advertisements relating to medicinal products
         and containing a word or phrase specified in the
         regulations, as being a word or phrase which, in the
         opinion of the Minister, is likely to mislead the public as to
         the nature or effects of the products or as to any condition
         of body or mind in connection with which the products
         might be used.

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), the Minister may by
regulations impose any requirements that the Minister considers
necessary or expedient with respect to any one or more of the
following matters:

    (a) the form and content of advertisements relating to
         medicinal products;

    (b) the obtaining of prior approval from the licensing authority
         for the issue of any such advertisements;

    (c) in the case of advertisements by way of cinematograph
        films or television, the duration for which, and the manner
        in which, any part of such an advertisement which contains
        particulars of a description specified in the regulations
        must be exhibited;

    (d) advertisements and representations directed to
         practitioners,

and any such regulations may prohibit the use, in relation to
medicinal products of a description specified in the regulations, of
advertisements of any particular kind so specified.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        42

Power of licensing authority to require copies of
advertisements

 53.—(1) The licensing authority may serve on any person a notice
requiring that person, within the time specified in the notice, to
furnish to the licensing authority such number of copies as may be so
specified of any advertisement relating to medicinal products or to
medicinal products of a description or falling within a class so
specified, which that person has issued, or has caused to be issued,
within 12 months ending with the date of service of the notice.

 (2) Any person who without reasonable excuse fails to comply with
any requirement imposed on that person by a notice under this section
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000.

                                    PART 6

  MISCELLANEOUS AND SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS

Application of this Act to certain articles and substances

 54.—(1) The Minister may by order —

       (a) specify any description or class of articles or substances
            appearing to the Minister to be articles or substances which
            are not medicinal products but are manufactured, sold,
            supplied, imported or exported for use wholly or partly for
            a medicinal purpose or for a cosmetic; and

       (b) direct that, subject to any exceptions and modifications
            specified in the order, such provisions of this Act as may be
            so specified (including provisions so specified which relate
            to offences or penalties) are to have effect in relation to
            articles or substances of that description or class as those
            provisions have effect in relation to medicinal products.

 (2) An order under subsection (1) may —

       (a) apply to any class or description of chewing gum that is
            intended for use in promoting dental health or oral hygiene;
            and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
43  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

       (b) require the chewing gum to be sold or supplied by
            prescription or by or under the supervision of a pharmacist.

                                                                                                           [26/2004]

 (3) In this section, “cosmetic” means any article intended to be
rubbed, poured, sprinkled or sprayed on, or introduced into, or
otherwise applied to, the human body or any part thereof for
cleansing, beautifying, promoting attractiveness or altering the
appearance, and includes a deodorant or any depilatory substance
but does not include a soap.

Application of this Act to certain other substances which are
not medicinal products

 55. The Minister may by order specify any substance appearing to
the Minister to be a substance which is not itself a medicinal product
but —

       (a) is used as an ingredient in the manufacture of medicinal
            products; or

       (b) if used without proper safeguards, is capable of causing
            danger to the health of the community, or of causing danger
            to the health of animals generally or of one or more species
            of animals,

and direct that, subject to such exceptions and modifications as may
be specified in the order, such provisions of this Act as may be so
specified (including any provisions so specified which relate to
offences or penalties) are to have effect in relation to that substance as
those provisions have effect in relation to medicinal products.

Rights of entry

 56.—(1) Any person duly authorised in writing by the licensing
authority may at any reasonable time —

       (a) enter any premises for the purpose of ascertaining whether
            there is or has been, on or in connection with those
            premises, any contravention of any provisions of this Act
            or of any regulations or orders made under this Act;

       (b) enter any premises generally for the purposes of the
            performance by the authority of the authority’s functions

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        44

          under this Act or under any regulations or orders made
          under this Act; or

          (c) enter any ship, aircraft, hovercraft or vehicle for the
              purpose of ascertaining whether there is in the ship,
              aircraft, hovercraft or vehicle any substance or article
              imported in contravention of any provisions of this Act or
              of any regulations or orders made under this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), any person duly authorised in
writing by the licensing authority may at any reasonable time enter
any premises occupied by an applicant for a licence or certificate or
for renewal thereof under Part 2 for the purpose of verifying any
statement contained in the application for the licence or certificate.

Power to inspect, take samples and seize goods and documents

 57.—(1) For the purpose of ascertaining whether there is or has
been a contravention of this Act or any regulations or orders made
under this Act, any person duly authorised in writing by the licensing
authority (called in this section an authorised person) may inspect —

       (a) any substance or article appearing to the authorised person
            to be a medicinal product;

       (b) any article appearing to the authorised person to be a
            container or package used or intended to be used to contain
            any medicinal product or to be a label or leaflet used or
            intended to be used in connection with a medicinal
            product; or

       (c) any plant or equipment appearing to the authorised person
            to be used or intended to be used in connection with the
            manufacture or assembly of medicinal products, and any
            process of manufacture or assembly of any medicinal
            products and the means employed, at any stage in the
            processes of manufacture or assembly, for testing the
            materials after they have been subject to those processes.

 (2) Where for the purpose specified in subsection (1) an authorised
person requires a sample of any substance or article appearing to the
authorised person to be —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
45  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

    (a) a medicinal product sold or supplied or intended to be sold
         or supplied; or

    (b) a substance or article used or intended to be used in the
         manufacture of a medicinal product,

the authorised person may take a sample of that substance or article.

 (3) For the purpose specified in subsection (1), an authorised person
may —

    (a) require any person carrying on a business which consists of
         or includes the manufacture, assembly, sale or supply of
         medicinal products, and any person employed in
         connection with such a business, to produce any books
         or documents relating to the business which are in that
         person’s possession or under that person’s control; and

    (b) take copies of, or of any entry in, any book or document
         produced pursuant to paragraph (a).

 (4) An authorised person may seize and detain any substance or
article which he or she has reasonable cause to believe to be a
substance or article in relation to which, or by means of which, an
offence under this Act is being or has been committed, and any
document which he or she has reasonable cause to believe to be a
document which may be required as evidence in proceedings under
this Act.

 (5) An authorised person may, so far as is reasonably necessary in
order to secure that the provisions of this Act and any regulations or
orders made under this Act are duly observed, require any person
having authority to do so to break open any container or package or
open any vending machine, or to permit the authorised person to do
so.

 (6) Where an authorised person seizes any substance or article
(including any document) under subsection (4), that authorised
person must inform the person from whom it is seized, and, in the
case of anything seized from a vending machine, the person whose
name and address are stated on the machine as being those of the
owner of the machine, or, if no name and address are so stated, the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        46

occupier of the premises on which the machine stands or to which it is
affixed.

 (7) The Minister may by regulations prescribe the procedure for the
sampling of articles and substances seized under this section.

Supplementary provisions as to rights of entry and related
rights

 58.—(1) Any person entering any property (that is to say, any
premises, ship, aircraft, vehicle, stall or place) by virtue of section 56
may take with the person such other persons and such equipment as
may appear to the person to be necessary.

 (2) Any person who —

       (a) wilfully obstructs a person acting pursuant to this Act and
            duly authorised so to act by the licensing authority; or

       (b) wilfully fails to comply with any requirement properly
            made to the person by a person so acting under section 57;
            or

       (c) without reasonable cause fails to give to a person so acting
            any other assistance or information which that person may
            reasonably require of him or her for the purpose of the
            performance of his or her functions under this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000.

 (3) If a person, in giving any such information as mentioned in
subsection (2)(c), makes any statement which the person knows to be
false, the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

Seizure or detention of goods subject to prohibition or
restriction

 59.—(1) Any imported goods are deemed to be imported contrary
to a prohibition or restriction for the time being in force with respect
to them if —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
47  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

    (a) they are medicinal products or medicinal substances of any
         description or falling within a class specified in an order
         made by the Minister for the purposes of this section; and

    (b) they are imported in the circumstances specified in that
         order.

 (2) Any exported goods are deemed to be exported contrary to a
prohibition or restriction for the time being in force with respect to
them if —

    (a) they are medicinal products or medicinal substances of any
         description or falling within a class specified in an order
         made by the Minister for the purposes of this section; and

    (b) they are exported in the circumstances specified in that
         order.

 (3) An officer of customs or police officer may seize and detain any
goods subject to a prohibition or restriction imposed by an order made
under this section.

Forfeiture of goods seized

 60.—(1) Whenever any goods are seized under this Act, the seizing
officer must forthwith give written notice of the seizure to the owner
of the goods, if known, either by delivering the notice to the owner
personally or by post at the owner’s place of residence if known:

      Provided that the notice is not required to be given where the
seizure is made in the presence of the offender or the owner or the
owner’s agent, or in the case of a ship or aircraft, in the presence of
the master or captain thereof.

 (2) An order for the forfeiture of any goods is to be made if it is
proved to the satisfaction of a court that an offence under this Act has
been committed and that the goods were the subject matter of or was
used in the commission of the offence even though no person may
have been convicted of that offence.

 (3) If there is no prosecution with regard to any goods seized under
this Act the goods are deemed to be forfeited at the expiry of
one month from the date of the seizure of the goods unless a claim to
the goods has been made before that date in the manner prescribed.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        48

Disposal of goods forfeited

 61.—(1) All goods which are forfeited under this Act must be
disposed of in the manner that the licensing authority thinks fit.

                                                                                                             [4/2001]

 (2) The licensing authority may, after any proceedings under this
Act are concluded, entertain and give effect to any claim to or in
respect of goods which have been forfeited under this Act.

                                                                                                             [4/2001]

Restrictions on disclosure of information

 62.—(1) If any person discloses to any other person —

       (a) any information with respect to any manufacturing process
            or trade secret obtained by the firstmentioned person in
            premises which the firstmentioned person has entered by
            virtue of section 56; or

       (b) any information obtained by or furnished to the
            firstmentioned person pursuant to this Act,

the firstmentioned person shall, unless the disclosure was made in the
performance of the firstmentioned person’s duty, be guilty of an
offence.

 (2) Any person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

Protection for officers

 63. No person shall be personally liable in respect of any act done
by that person in the execution or purported execution of this Act and
within the scope of his or her employment if he or she did it in the
honest belief that his or her duty under this Act required or entitled
him or her to do it.

Contravention due to default of other person

 64.—(1) Where a contravention by any person of any provision to
which this section applies constitutes an offence under this Act, and is
due to an act or default of another person, then whether proceedings
are taken against the firstmentioned person or not, that other person

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
49  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

may be charged with and convicted of that offence and shall be liable
on conviction to the same punishment as might have been imposed on
the firstmentioned person if the firstmentioned person had been
convicted of the offence.

 (2) Where a person who is charged with an offence under this Act in
respect of a contravention of a provision to which this section applies
proves to the satisfaction of the court —

    (a) that the person exercised all due diligence to secure that the
         provision in question would not be contravened; and

    (b) that the contravention was due to the act or default of
         another person,

the firstmentioned person must be acquitted of the offence.

 (3) This section applies to sections 31 to 33, 44 to 47 and 50 to 52
and the provisions of any regulations made under any of those
sections.

Warranty as defence

 65.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this section, in any
proceedings for an offence under this Act in respect of a
contravention of a provision to which this section applies, it is a
defence for the accused to prove —

       (a) that the accused purchased the substance or article to which
            the contravention relates in Singapore as being a substance
            or article which could be lawfully sold or supplied or could
            be lawfully sold or supplied under the name or description
            or for the purpose under or for which the accused sold or
            supplied and with a written warranty to that effect;

       (b) that at the time of the commission of the alleged offence
            the accused had no reason to believe that it was otherwise;
            and

       (c) that the substance or article was then in the same state as
            when the accused purchased it.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        50

 (2) This section applies to section 31(b), sections 32, 33 and 44 to
47 and the provisions of any regulations made under any of those
sections.

 (3) A warranty is not a defence by virtue of this section unless the
accused has, not later than 7 clear days before the date of the hearing,
sent to the prosecution a copy of the warranty with a notice stating
that the accused intends to rely on it and specifying the name and
address of the person from whom the accused received it, and has also
sent a like notice to that person.

 (4) Where the accused is an employee of the person who purchased
the substance or article under the warranty, he or she is entitled to rely
on this section in the same way as his or her employer would have
been entitled to do if the employer had been charged with the offence.

 (5) The person by whom the warranty is alleged to have been given
is entitled to appear at the hearing and to give evidence, and the court
may, if it thinks fit, adjourn the hearing to enable the person to do so.

 (6) For the purposes of this section a name or description entered in
an invoice is deemed to be a written warranty that the article or
substance to which the name or description applies can be sold or
supplied under that name or description by any person without
contravening any provision to which this section applies.

Offences in relation to warranties

 66.—(1) If an accused in any such proceedings as are mentioned in
section 65(1) wilfully applies to any substance or article a warranty
given in relation to a different substance or article the accused shall be
guilty of an offence.

 (2) A person who, in respect of any substance or article sold by the
person in respect of which a warranty might be pleaded under
section 65, gives to the purchaser a false warranty in writing shall be
guilty of an offence, unless the person proves that when the person
gave the warranty the person had reason to believe that the statement
or description contained in it was accurate.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
51  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

 (3) Any person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

Offences by bodies corporate

 67. Where an offence under this Act committed by a body corporate
is proved to have been committed with the consent and connivance
of, or to be attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director,
manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate, or
any person who was purporting to act in any such capacity, he or she
as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of that offence and shall
be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

Certificate of analysis

 68. In any proceedings under this Act a certificate of analysis
purporting to be signed by an analyst is, on its production by the
prosecution without proof of the signature of the analyst, sufficient
evidence of the facts stated in the certificate until the contrary is
proved.

Presumptions

 69.—(1) For the purposes of any proceedings under this Act for an
offence consisting of —

       (a) offering a medicinal product for sale by retail in
            contravention of section 24 or any conditions prescribed
            for the purpose of section 25; or

       (b) offering a medicinal product for sale in contravention of
            section 31(b),

where it is proved that the medicinal product in question was found
on a vehicle or stall from which medicinal products are sold, it is
presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that the person in charge of
the vehicle or stall offered that medicinal product for sale and, in a
case falling within paragraph (a), that the person offered it for sale by
retail.

 (2) For the purposes of any proceedings under this Act for an
offence consisting of a contravention of so much of any provision to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        52

which this subsection applies as relates to a person having any
medicinal product in the person’s possession for the purpose of sale
or supply, where it is proved that the medicinal product in question
was found in any premises occupied by the person charged with the
offence or under that person’s control, it is presumed, unless the
contrary is proved, that that person had that medicinal product in that
person’s possession for the purpose of sale or supply.

 (3) Subsection (2) applies to sections 31(b), 44(2) and (4), 46(2)
and 47(3).

 (4) For the purposes of any proceedings under this Act for an
offence consisting of a contravention of section 45(2) or (3), as relates
to leaflets, where it is proved that the leaflet in question was found in
any premises occupied by the person charged with the offence or
under the person’s control, it is presumed, unless the contrary is
proved, that the person had the leaflet in the person’s possession for
the purpose of supplying it with a medicinal product.

Service of documents

 70. Any notice or other document required or authorised by any
provision of this Act to be served on any person, or to be given or sent
to any person, may be served, given or sent —

       (a) by delivering it to that person;

       (b) by sending it by post to that person at that person’s usual or
            last known residence or place of business in Singapore; or

       (c) in the case of a body corporate, by delivering it to the
            secretary of the body corporate at its registered or principal
            office or sending it by post to the secretary of that body
            corporate at the office.

Jurisdiction of District and Magistrate’s Courts

 71. Despite anything to the contrary contained in the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010, a District Court or Magistrate’s Court has
jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act and to impose the full
penalty or punishment in respect of any such offence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
53  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

Composition of offences

 72. The licensing authority may compound any offence under this
Act or any regulations made under this Act by accepting from the
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
not exceeding $2,000.

Fees, charges, etc., collected by licensing authority to be paid to
appropriate Authority

 72A. All fees, charges and other moneys recovered or collected by
the licensing authority under this Act or any regulations made under
this Act (including sums collected for the composition of offences
under section 72) must be paid —

       (a) in the case where the licensing authority is the Chief
            Executive of the Authority, to the Authority; and

       (b) in the case where the licensing authority is the
            Director‑General, Animal Health and Welfare, to the
            National Parks Board established by the repealed
            National Parks Act (Cap. 198A, 1991 Revised Edition)
            as in force before 1 July 1996 and continued by section 3 of
            the National Parks Board Act 1996.

                                                                                                 [4/2001; 10/2019]

Advisory committees

 73. The Minister may establish one or more advisory committees
consisting of such members as the Minister may appoint for the
purpose of giving advice to the licensing authority with regard to such
matters arising out of the administration of this Act as are referred to
them by the Minister.

Regulations

 74.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for any purpose for
which regulations are authorised or required to be made under this
Act and generally for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this
Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations made under this
Act may —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                        54

(a) prescribe fees for the grant or renewal of licences and
     certificates;

(b) prescribe standard provisions for licences and certificates
     either in respect of medicinal products generally or any
     class of medicinal products;

          (c) provide for the registration of premises, other than
              pharmacies, used for the purpose of the retail sale,
              storage or supply of medicinal products; and

(d) provide that any person who contravenes the regulations
     shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
     conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
     imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

Application of other written law not affected

 75. Except as expressly provided in this Act, this Act does not limit
or affect in any way the provisions or operation of any other written
law relating to any matter which may be dealt with in this Act.

Repeal and consequential amendments
 76.—(1) [Deleted by Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Second Schedule

 (2) The Poisons Act 1938 is amended in the manner set out in the
Second Schedule.

Act not to apply to products categorised and regulated as
health products under Health Products Act 2007

 77.—(1) Where any product to which this Act applies has been
categorised as a type of health product under the Health Products
Act 2007, the Minister may, by order in the Gazette, declare that the
provisions of this Act cease to apply to that type of product as from
the date specified in the order, and the provisions of this Act, as from
the date so specified, cease to apply to that type of product.

                                                                                                           [15/2007]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
55  Medicines Act 1975                                        2020 Ed.

 (2) The Minister may, in making any order under subsection (1),
prescribe such transitional, saving and other consequential provisions
as the Minister may consider necessary or expedient.

                                                                                                           [15/2007]

                           FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                  Section 51(1)(a) and 51(4)(a)

                           DISEASES AND CONDITIONS
1. Blindness
2. Cancer
3. Cataract
4. Drug addiction
5. Deafness
6. Diabetes
7. Epilepsy or fits
8. Hypertension
9. Insanity
10. Kidney diseases
11. Leprosy
12. Menstrual disorders
13. Paralysis
14. Tuberculosis
15. Sexual function
16. Infertility
17. Impotency
18. Frigidity
19. Conception and pregnancy

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
2020 Ed.  Medicines Act 1975                                            56

          SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                                      Section 76(2)

                  AMENDMENTS TO THE POISONS ACT 1938
1. In section 6 —

       (a) delete the word “and” appearing at the end of subsection (1)(a)(iv);

        (b) delete subsection (1)(a)(v); and

        (c) delete the words “or to some pharmacist in the employment of the
             seller at the premises where the sale is effected,” appearing in the
             second, third and fourth lines of subsection (3)(a).

 2. Section 7 is repealed.

 3. In section 9(3), delete the words “or for dispensing purposes” appearing in
the first and second lines.

 4. In section 11(1) —

        (a) delete the words “; or” appearing at the end of paragraph (c) and
             substitute therefor a full-stop; and

        (b) delete paragraph (d).

 5. In section 17(1), delete the words “sections 7 and” appearing in the fourth
line and substitute therefor the word “section”.

 6. In section 21(1) —

        (a) delete the words “(c) or (d)” appearing in the third line of
             sub‑paragraph (i) of paragraph (c);

        (b) delete sub‑paragraph (ii) of paragraph (c); and

        (c) delete paragraphs (g) and (i).

7. After section 21, insert the following:

        “Non-application of this Act to medicinal product or substance

           22. Nothing in this Act shall apply to any poison which is incorporated
          in a medicinal product or used as a substance for a medicinal purpose
          and which is regulated by the provisions of the Medicines Act 1975.”.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                 MEDICINES ACT 1975

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 52 of 1975 — Medicines Act, 1975

Bill                     : 12/1975

First Reading            : 3 March 1975

Second Reading           : 27 March 1975

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 8 of 1975

Third Reading            : 20 November 1975

Commencement             : 24 June 1977 (Parts I and II,
                               sections 30, 31, 34, and 35 of Part III,
                               Part V and sections 54 to 75 of
                               Part VII)
                               15 November 1977 (Part VI)
                               16 January 1981 (Part IV)
                               3 May 1993 (Part III except
                               sections 30, 31, 34 and 35)

2. 1985 Revised Edition — Medicines Act (Chapter 176)

Operation                : 30 March 1987

3. Act 7 of 1998 — Medicines (Amendment) Act 1998

Bill                     : 5/1998

First Reading            : 14 January 1998

Second and Third Readings : 19 February 1998

Commencement             : 16 April 1998

4. Act 16 of 2000 — Agri-food and Veterinary Authority Act 2000
   (Amendments made by section 47 read with item (6) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill                     : 11/2000

First Reading            : 21 February 2000

Second and Third Readings : 17 March 2000

Commencement             : 1 April 2000 (section 47 read with
                               item (6) of the Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
               ii

5. Act 46 of 1999 — Nurses and Midwives Act 1999
   (Amendments made by section 51 read with item (2) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill           : 38/1999

First Reading  : 11 October 1999

Second and Third Readings : 24 November 1999

Commencement   : 1 May 2000 (section 51 read with item
                     (2) of the Schedule)

6. Act 4 of 2001 — Health Sciences Authority Act 2001
   (Amendments made by section 42 read with item (7) of the Second Schedule
   to the above Act)

Bill           : 3/2001

First Reading  : 12 January 2001

Second and Third Readings : 22 February 2001

Commencement   : 1 April 2001 (section 42 read with
                     item (7) of the Second Schedule)

7. Act 26 of 2004 — Medicines (Amendment) Act 2004

Bill           : 25/2004

First Reading  : 19 May 2004

Second and Third Readings : 15 June 2004

Commencement   : 1 July 2004

8. Act 17 of 2005 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments and Repeal) Act
                          2005

   (Amendments made by section 7 of the above Act)

Bill           : 7/2005

First Reading  : 18 April 2005

Second and Third Readings : 16 May 2005

Commencement   : 15 July 2005 (section 7)

9. Act 15 of 2007 — Health Products Act 2007
   (Amendments made by section 76 of the above Act)

Bill           : 3/2007

First Reading  : 22 January 2007

Second and Third Readings : 12 February 2007

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                iii

Commencement    : 1 November 2007 (section 76)

10. Act 22 of 2007 — Dentists (Amendment) Act 2007
     (Amendments made by section 39 read with item (6) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill            : 9/2007

First Reading   : 27 February 2007

Second and Third Readings : 12 April 2007

Commencement    : 1 January 2008 (section 39 read with
                      item (6) of the Schedule)

11. Act 48 of 2007 — Pharmacists Registration Act 2007
     (Amendments made by section 76 read with item (2) of the Second Schedule
     to the above Act)

Bill            : 36/2007

First Reading   : 27 August 2007

Second and Third Readings : 20 September 2007

Commencement    : 1 September 2008 (section 76 read
                      with item (2) of the Second Schedule)

12. Act 29 of 2015 — Human Biomedical Research Act 2015
     (Amendments made by section 67 of the above Act)

Bill            : 25/2015

First Reading   : 13 July 2015

Second Reading  : 17 August 2015

Third Reading   : 18 August 2015

Commencement    : 1 July 2016 (section 67)

13. Act 10 of 2019 — National Parks Board (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 13 of the above Act)

Bill            : 4/2019

First Reading   : 15 January 2019

Second and Third Readings : 12 February 2019

Commencement    : 1 April 2019 (section 13)

14. Act 4 of 2021 — Statute Law Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 25 of the above Act)

Bill            : 45/2020

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
               iv

First Reading  : 3 November 2020

Second and Third Readings : 5 January 2021

Commencement   : 1 March 2021 (section 25)

15. 2020 Revised Edition — Medicines Act 1975

Operation      : 31 December 2021

16. G.N. No. S 759/2022 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Rectification of
                                    Acts) (No. 2) Order 2022

Operation      : 31 December 2021

Publication    : 26 September 2022

17. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 24/2022

First Reading  : 12 September 2022

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 2022

Commencement   : 1 November 2022

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                  COMPARATIVE TABLE
                  MEDICINES ACT 1975

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

        2020 Ed.                    1985 Ed.
                  7—(2) [Deleted by Act 4 of 2021]
—
7—(2)                (3)
                     (4)
   (3)               (5)
   (4)               (6)
   (5)            16—(1A)
16—(2)               (1B)
   (3)               (2)
   (4)               (3)
   (5)               (4)
   (6)            20—(3A)
20—(4)               (4)
   (5)               (5)
   (6)               (6)
   (7)            PART 4
—                 PART 5
PART 4            PART 6
PART 5            PART 7
PART 6            54—(1A)
54—(2)               (2)
   (3)            67—(1)
67                   (2) [Deleted by Act 4 of 2021]
—

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
