THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
              GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS
                               ACT 2014

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                                                                  2020 Ed.

         Geographical Indications
                  Act 2014

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
         Interpretation
     1.  Application of Act
     2.
     3.

                                        PART 2

          PROTECTION FOR GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS

 4. Interested party may bring action for certain uses of
         geographical indication

 5. Remedies
 6. Order for delivery up of goods, material and articles
 7. Order as to disposal of goods, material or articles
 8. Remedy for groundless threats of proceedings under section 4
 9. Declaration by Court
10. Homonymous geographical indications for prescribed goods

                                        PART 3

                                    EXCEPTIONS

                   Division 1 — Exceptions applicable to all
                              geographical indications

11. Certain uses of geographical indications excepted
12. Exceptions regarding prior users
13. Exception for use of personal name
14. Exception for failure to take action

               Division 2 — Exceptions applicable to registered
                              geographical indications

15. Certain uses of registered geographical indications excepted

                                                      1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                        2

Section

   16. Exceptions for prior users of registered geographical indications
            and trade marks

                                        PART 4

             REGISTRY OF GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS
                            AND ADMINISTRATION

                            Division 1 — The Registrar

17. Registrar of Geographical Indications and other officers
18. Delegation by Registrar
19. Registry of Geographical Indications
20. Seal of Registry

                             Division 2 — The register

21. Register of geographical indications
22. Rectification of register, etc.
23. Inspection of and extract from register
24. Falsification of register, etc.
25. Falsely representing geographical indication as registered

                 Division 3 — Powers and duties of Registrar

26. Costs awarded by Registrar
27. Security for costs
28. Evidence before Registrar
29. Disobedience to summons an offence
30. Refusal to give evidence an offence
31. Exclusion of liability in respect of official acts
32. Appeals from Registrar

        Division 4 — Forms, fees, hours of business and publication

33. Forms and directions of Registrar
34. Fees
35. Hours of business and excluded days
36. Publication of geographical indication applications, etc.
37. Recognition of agents

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
         Geographical Indications

3        Act 2014                                                        2020 Ed.

         PART 5

         REGISTRATION OF GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS

         Division 1 — Registration

Section  Persons who may apply for registration
         Application for registration of geographical indications
   38.   Registration only in respect of prescribed categories of goods
   39.   Grounds for refusal of registration
   40.   Registration of homonymous geographical indications
   41.   Examination
   42.   Appointment of technical advisor
   43.   Publication and opposition proceedings
   44.   Requests for qualification to be entered in register
   45.   Withdrawal or amendment of application
   46.   Registration
   47.   Application for limitation of scope to be entered in register
   48.   Revocation of acceptance
   48A.
   49.

         Division 2 — Administration of registered
                   geographical indications

   50. Duration of registration
   51. Renewal of registration
   52. Cancellation of registration of geographical indication
   53. Transfer of registration of registered geographical indication

         Division 3 — Miscellaneous

   54. Amendment of other documents

                                           PART 6

                   ASSISTANCE BY BORDER AUTHORITIES

                          Division 1 — Preliminary provisions

   55. Interpretation of this Part
   55A. Administration of this Part
   55B. Fees

                       Division 2 — Seizure of goods on request

   56. Request for seizure of suspected infringing goods
   57. Security for liability or expense of seizure, storage and disposal
   58. Secured storage of seized goods

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                    4

Section   Notice of seizure
          Persons bound to give information or produce documents
   59.    Information on import or export
   59A.   Inspection of seized goods
   59B.   Compulsory release of seized goods to importer or exporter
   60.    Compensation for failure to take action
   61.    Infringement actions
   62.    Retention of control of seized goods
   63.    Disposal of seized goods
   64.    Insufficient security
   65.
   66.

          Division 3 — Ex-officio seizure of goods

67.       Seizure and inspection of suspected infringing goods
67A.      Requirements for continued detention
67B.      Notice to take action
67C.      Persons bound to give information or produce documents
67D.      Information on import or export
67E.      Compulsory release of seized goods to dealer
67F.      Provisions relating to infringement action
67G.      Compensation for failure to take action
67H.      Retention of control of seized goods
67I.      Disposal of seized goods
67J.      Insufficient security

          Division 4 — Powers of inspection

68. Powers of inspection in relation to vehicles
69. Examination of packages, etc.
70. Power to remove packages and goods to examination station
71. Inspection of baggage and belongings on person
72. Powers of authorised officers to enter certain premises
73. Obstruction
74. Protection from personal liability

                                        PART 7

            MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS

75. Registration to be prima facie evidence
76. Certificate of validity of contested registration
77. Certificate of Registrar
78. Costs of proceedings before Court

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
         Geographical Indications

5        Act 2014                                                         2020 Ed.

Section  Burden of proving use of registered geographical indication
         Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
   79.   Composition of offences
   80.   Jurisdiction of courts
   81.   Minister may designate other qualifying countries
   82.   General power to make rules
   83.   Rules of Court
   84.   Rights under other laws unaffected
   85.   [Omitted]
   86.   Saving and transitional provisions
   87.   The Schedule — Categories of goods under which
   88.
                               geographical indication may be registered

An Act to provide for the protection of geographical indications in
  relation to goods, and for matters connected therewith.

                [1 April 2019: Except sections 4(6) to (9), 15, 16 and 55
                                                                           to 76 ;

                21 November 2019: Sections 4(6) to (9), 15, 16, 75 and
                                                                              76 ]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title and commencement
 1.—(1) This Act is the Geographical Indications Act 2014.
 (2) Part 6 comes into operation on such date as the Minister may, by
notification in the Gazette, appoint.

Interpretation
 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “Court” means the General Division of the High Court;
      “earlier geographical indication”, in relation to an application
         for registration of a geographical indication made under
         section 39 (called in this definition the application in
         question), means a geographical indication —

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 6

          (a) which has been registered under section 48; or

          (b) an application for registration of which has been
               made under section 39,

          before the date of the application in question;

“geographical indication” means any indication used in trade to
   identify goods as originating from a place, provided that —

          (a) the place is a qualifying country or a region or
               locality in a qualifying country; and

          (b) a given quality, reputation or other characteristic of
               the goods is essentially attributable to that place;

“goods” means any natural or agricultural product or any
   product of handicraft or industry;

“homonymous geographical indication” means a geographical
   indication that, in part or in whole, has the same spelling as,
   or sounds the same as, a geographical indication for any
   goods having a different geographical origin;

“interested party”, in relation to goods identified by a
   geographical indication, means a producer of the goods, a
   trader of the goods, or an association of such producers or
   traders or of such producers and traders;

“international trade mark (Singapore)” has the meaning given by
   the Trade Marks Act 1998;

“Office” means the Intellectual Property Office of Singapore
   established under the Intellectual Property Office of
   Singapore Act 2001;

“Paris Convention” means the Convention for the Protection of
   Industrial Property signed at Paris on 20 March 1883, and any
   revision or amendment thereto which has come into force and
   has been accepted by the Government;

“place”, in relation to a geographical indication, means a
   country or territory and includes a region or locality in a
   country or territory;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
   Geographical Indications

7                        Act 2014                           2020 Ed.

   “producer” means —

   (a) in relation to agricultural products, a person who
        produces those products for sale or other commercial
        purposes;

   (b) in relation to natural products, a person who exploits
        those products for sale or other commercial purposes;
        or

   (c) in relation to products of handicraft or industry, a
       person who manufactures those products for sale or
       other commercial purposes;

   “proprietor” means —

   (a) in relation to a registered trade mark, the person in
        whose name the trade mark is registered;

   (b) in relation to an unregistered trade mark that is a well
        known trade mark, the person to whom the trade
        mark belongs; or

   (c) in relation to a trade mark referred to in
       section 41(5)(b), the person who used the trade
       mark in accordance with that provision;

   “qualifying country” means any country or territory which is —

   (a) a member of the World Trade Organization;

   (b) a party to the Paris Convention; or

   (c) designated by the Minister as a qualifying country
       under section 83;

   “register” means —

   (a) when used as a noun, the register of geographical
        indications maintained by the Registrar under
        section 21; and

   (b) when used as a verb, to enter in the register;

   “registered geographical indication” means a geographical
      indication that is registered under section 48;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 8

“registered trade mark” means a trade mark registered under the
   Trade Marks Act 1998;

“registrant”, in relation to a registered geographical indication,
   means the person in whose name the geographical indication
   is registered;

“Registrar” means the Registrar of Geographical Indications
   appointed under section 17 and includes any Deputy
   Registrar or Assistant Registrar of Geographical
   Indications appointed under that section;

“Registry” means the Registry of Geographical Indications
   established under section 19;

“repealed Act” means the Geographical Indications Act
   (Cap. 117B, 1999 Revised Edition) repealed by this Act;

“trade mark” has the meaning given by the Trade Marks
   Act 1998;

“trader”, in relation to goods, means any person —

          (a) who sells the goods in Singapore; or

          (b) who supplies the goods in Singapore for the purpose
               of their being sold by another person in Singapore;

“use” means use as part of, or in connection with —

          (a) any transaction, including a purchase, a sale or an
               exchange;

          (b) any importing or exporting;

          (c) any advertisement; or

          (d) any invoice, wine list, catalogue, business letter,
               business paper, price list or other commercial
               document;

“variant”, in relation to a geographical indication, means a
   variant of the indication constituting the geographical
   indication, and includes any translation, transliteration or
   other variation of the indication;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
   Geographical Indications

9  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

      “well known trade mark” has the meaning given by the Trade
         Marks Act 1998.

                                                                                                 [40/2019; 5/2020]

 (2) There may be 2 or more variants constituting the same
geographical indication.

                                                                                                             [5/2020]

 (3) A geographical indication, and each variant constituting the
geographical indication (if any), may contain 2 or more words.

                                                                                                             [5/2020]

Application of Act

 3.—(1) Unless expressly provided otherwise in subsection (2) or
elsewhere in this Act, this Act applies to all geographical indications,
whether or not registered under section 48.

 (2) Sections 4(6) to (9), 75, 76 and 79, Division 2 of Part 3,
Division 2 of Part 5, and Part 6 only apply to registered geographical
indications.

                                    PART 2

      PROTECTION FOR GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS

Interested party may bring action for certain uses of
geographical indication

 4.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, an interested party of
goods identified by a geographical indication may bring an action
against a person for carrying out an act to which this section applies in
relation to the geographical indication.

 (2) This section applies to the following acts:

       (a) the use of a geographical indication in relation to any
            goods which did not originate in the place indicated by the
            geographical indication, in a manner which misleads the
            public as to the geographical origin of the goods;

       (b) any use of a geographical indication which constitutes an
            act of unfair competition within the meaning of Article 10
            bis of the Paris Convention;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 10

          (c) any use of a geographical indication, being a geographical
              indication which identifies a wine, in relation to a wine
              which did not originate from the place indicated by the
              geographical indication, whether or not —

          (i) the true geographical origin of the second‑mentioned
              wine is used together with the geographical
              indication;

          (ii) the geographical indication is used in translation; or

          (iii) the geographical indication is accompanied by any of
                the words “kind”, “type”, “style” or “imitation” or
                any similar word or expression; and

(d) any use of a geographical indication, being a geographical
     indication which identifies a spirit, in relation to a spirit
     which did not originate from the place indicated by the
     geographical indication, whether or not —

          (i) the true geographical origin of the second‑mentioned
              spirit is used together with the geographical
              indication;

          (ii) the geographical indication is used in translation; or

          (iii) the geographical indication is accompanied by any of
                the words “kind”, “type”, “style” or “imitation” or
                any similar word or expression.

 (3) Any use of a geographical indication within the meaning of
subsection (2) is deemed to be an act to which this section applies,
even if the geographical indication is literally true as to the
geographical origin of the goods in question, provided that such
use falsely represents to the public that the goods originate in another
place.

 (4) In subsection (2), “use of a geographical indication” includes
the use of a trade mark which contains or consists of the geographical
indication in question.

 (5) Subsection (2)(c) and (d) does not apply to the use of a
geographical indication to identify an ingredient of a wine and an
ingredient of a spirit, respectively, if the geographical indication is

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

11                       Act 2014                            2020 Ed.

literally true as to the geographical origin of the ingredient in
question, provided that such use does not falsely represent to the
public that the wine or spirit (as the case may be) originates in the
place indicated by the geographical indication.

 (6) This section applies to any use of a registered geographical
indication which identifies any agricultural product or foodstuff
(other than a wine or a spirit) belonging to a category of goods listed
in the Schedule, in relation to any goods which are of the same
category as that agricultural product or foodstuff, but which did not
originate in the place indicated by the registered geographical
indication, whether or not —

    (a) the true geographical origin of those goods is used together
         with the registered geographical indication;

    (b) the registered geographical indication is used in
         translation; or

    (c) the registered geographical indication is accompanied by
        any of the words “kind”, “type”, “style” or “imitation” or
        any similar word or expression.

 (7) Any use of a registered geographical indication within the
meaning of subsection (6) is deemed to be an act to which this section
applies, even if the geographical indication is literally true as to the
geographical origin of the goods in question, provided that such use
falsely represents to the public that the goods originate in another
place.

(8) In subsection (6) —

    “foodstuff” means any natural or agricultural product that is
       meant for human consumption;

    “use of a registered geographical indication” includes the use of
       a trade mark which contains or consists of the geographical
       indication in question.

 (9) Subsection (6) does not apply to the use of a registered
geographical indication to identify an ingredient of any goods, if the
geographical indication is literally true as to the geographical origin
of the ingredient in question, provided that such use does not falsely

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 12

represent to the public that the goods originate in the place indicated
by the geographical indication.

Remedies

 5. Subject to the provisions of this Act, if it is established to the
satisfaction of the Court that the defendant to an action brought under
section 4 has carried out or is carrying out an act to which that section
applies, the Court may grant to the claimant one or both of the
following:

       (a) an injunction (subject to such terms, if any, as the Court
            thinks fit) to restrain the further carrying out of the act;

       (b) damages or an account of profits.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Order for delivery up of goods, material and articles

 6.—(1) In any action brought under section 4 in relation to a
geographical indication, the Court may, in addition to any relief
granted under section 5, order any of the following in the possession
of the defendant to the action or before the Court to be delivered up to
the claimant:

       (a) goods in respect of which the defendant has been found to
            be carrying out or to have carried out, in relation to the
            geographical indication, an act to which section 4 applies;

       (b) material —

               (i) which bears an indication identical with or similar to
                   the geographical indication;

              (ii) which is used by the defendant for labelling or
                   packaging goods, or as a business paper, or for
                   advertising goods; and

             (iii) in respect of which the defendant has been found to
                   be carrying out or to have carried out, in relation to
                   the geographical indication, an act to which section 4
                   applies;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                    Geographical Indications

13                  Act 2014                                 2020 Ed.

    (c) articles —

    (i) used by the defendant to make upon material referred
        to in paragraph (b), copies of an indication identical
        with or similar to the geographical indication; or

              (ii) which the defendant has in the defendant’s
                   possession, custody or control, knowing or having
                   reason to believe that they have been, or are to be,
                   used to make upon material referred to in
                   paragraph (b), copies of an indication identical
                   with or similar to the geographical indication.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2) An order is not to be made under this section unless the Court
also makes, or it appears to the Court that there are grounds for
making, an order under section 7.

 (3) A person to whom any goods, material or articles are delivered
up pursuant to an order under this section must, if an order under
section 7 is not made, retain them pending the making of an order
under that section, or until the decision not to make such order.

Order as to disposal of goods, material or articles

 7.—(1) Where any goods, material or articles have been delivered
up pursuant to an order under section 6, an application may be made
to the Court —

       (a) for an order that they be destroyed or forfeited to such
            person as the Court may think fit; or

       (b) for a decision that no such order should be made.

 (2) In considering what order (if any) should be made, the Court is
to have regard to —

       (a) whether other remedies available in an action under
            section 4 would be adequate to compensate the claimant
            and protect his, her or its interest; and

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 14

       (b) the need to ensure that no goods, material or articles are
            disposed of in a manner that would adversely affect the
            claimant.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (3) The Court is to issue directions as to the service of notice on
persons having an interest in the goods, material or articles.

 (4) Any person having an interest in the goods, material or articles
is entitled —

(a) to appear in proceedings for an order under this section,
     whether or not that person is served with notice under
     subsection (3); and

(b) to appeal against any order made, whether or not that
     person appears in the proceedings for that order.

 (5) An order made under this section does not take effect until the
end of the period within which notice of an appeal may be given or, if
before the end of that period notice of appeal is duly given, until the
final determination or abandonment of the proceedings on the appeal.

 (6) Where there is more than one person interested in the goods,
material or articles, the Court may direct that the goods, material or
articles be sold, or otherwise dealt with, and the proceeds divided, and
make any other order as it thinks just.

 (7) If the Court decides that no order should be made under this
section, the person in whose possession, custody or control the goods,
material or articles were before being delivered up, is entitled to their
return.

Remedy for groundless threats of proceedings under section 4

 8.—(1) Where a person threatens another with proceedings for an
action for carrying out an act to which section 4 applies, other than —

       (a) the application of a geographical indication in relation to
            goods or to material used or intended to be used for
            labelling or packaging goods; or

       (b) the importation of goods to which, or to the packaging of
            which, the geographical indication has been used,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

15  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

any aggrieved person may bring proceedings for relief under this
section.

(2) The relief which may be applied for is any of the following:

    (a) a declaration that the threats are unjustifiable;

    (b) an injunction against the continuance of the threats;

    (c) damages in respect of any loss an aggrieved person has
        sustained by the threats.

 (3) A claimant to an action under this section is entitled to the relief
referred to in subsection (2) unless the defendant shows that the act in
respect of which proceedings were threatened constitutes (or if done
would constitute) an act to which section 4 applies.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (4) If the defendant to an action under this section shows that the act
in respect of which proceedings were threatened constitutes (or if
done would constitute) an act to which section 4 applies, the claimant
is nevertheless entitled to relief if the claimant shows that an
exception under this Act applies to the act concerned.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (5) The mere notification that a geographical indication is
registered, or that an application for registration has been made,
does not constitute a threat of proceedings for the purposes of this
section.

 (6) Nothing in this section renders an advocate and solicitor liable
to an action under this section in respect of an act done by the
advocate and solicitor in his or her professional capacity on behalf of
a client.

Declaration by Court

 9. Without affecting the jurisdiction of the Court to make a
declaration apart from this section, the Court may, in proceedings
between a person carrying out or proposing to carry out an act and any
interested party of goods identified by a geographical indication,
make a declaration that section 4 does not apply to that act or
proposed act, even though no assertion to the contrary has been made

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 16

by that interested party or any other interested party of goods
identified by the geographical indication.

Homonymous geographical indications for prescribed goods

 10.—(1) Any interested party of any prescribed goods identified by
homonymous geographical indications may take action under
section 4 against the carrying out of an act to which that section
applies.

 (2) Any interested party of any prescribed goods identified by
homonymous geographical indications may, where no practical
conditions in respect of the homonymous geographical indications
have been imposed by the Registrar under section 42(2), apply to the
Court for a declaration of the practical conditions under which the
homonymous geographical indications are to be differentiated from
one another.

 (3) The Court in making a declaration under subsection (2), is to
take into account —

       (a) the need to ensure equitable treatment of all the interested
            parties concerned; and

       (b) the need to ensure that consumers are not misled.

                                    PART 3

                                EXCEPTIONS

               Division 1 — Exceptions applicable to all
                          geographical indications

Certain uses of geographical indications excepted

 11. Section 4 does not apply to —

       (a) the use of a geographical indication, being a geographical
            indication which is contrary to public policy or morality;

       (b) the use of a geographical indication, being a geographical
            indication which is not or has ceased to be protected in its
            country or territory of origin;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

17  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

    (c) the use of a geographical indication in relation to any
        goods or services which is identical with the common
        name of the goods or services in Singapore;

    (d) the use of a geographical indication, being a geographical
         indication which is identical with the customary name of a
         grape variety existing in Singapore as of 1 January 1995,
         with respect to products of the vine of that or any other
         grape variety; or

    (e) the use of a geographical indication which is not registered
        under this Act, and which has fallen into disuse in its
        country or territory of origin.

Exceptions regarding prior users

 12.—(1) Section 4 does not apply to the use by a qualified person of
a geographical indication (being a geographical indication
identifying a wine or a spirit) in relation to any goods or services if
the qualified person has, or the qualified person and the qualified
person’s predecessor in title have, continuously used in Singapore
that geographical indication in relation to those goods or services or
related goods or services either —

       (a) for at least 10 years preceding 15 April 1994; or

       (b) in good faith preceding that date.

 (2) Section 4 does not apply to the use by a person of a trade mark
which is identical or similar to a geographical indication if —

       (a) the application for the registration of the trade mark was
            made in good faith, or the trade mark was registered in
            good faith, under the Trade Marks Act 1998 or any
            previous written law relating to trade marks; or

       (b) the person has, or the person and the person’s predecessor
            in title have, continuously used that trade mark in good
            faith in Singapore in the course of trade,

either —

       (c) before 15 January 1999; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 18

(d) before the geographical indication in question is protected
     in its country or territory of origin.

(3) In subsection (1), “qualified person” means —

(a) a citizen of Singapore or an individual resident in
     Singapore;

(b) a body corporate incorporated under any written law in
     Singapore; or

          (c) any other person who has a real and effective industrial or
              commercial establishment in Singapore.

Exception for use of personal name

 13. Section 4 does not apply to the use in the course of trade by a
person of that person’s name or the name of that person’s predecessor
in business, except where the name is used in such a manner as to
mislead the public.

Exception for failure to take action

 14.—(1) No action under section 4 against a person for the use of a
trade mark which contains or consists of a geographical indication
may be brought after the expiry of 5 years beginning immediately
after the earlier of the following dates:

       (a) the date on which such use by that person or that person’s
            predecessor in title has become generally known in
            Singapore;

       (b) the date on which the trade mark was actually registered
            under the Trade Marks Act 1998 or any previous written
            law relating to trade marks, if the trade mark has been
            published by that date.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply where the trade mark was used, or
registered, in bad faith.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

19  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

    Division 2 — Exceptions applicable to registered
                  geographical indications

Certain uses of registered geographical indications excepted

15. Section 4 does not apply to —

    (a) the use in the course of trade of any name contained in a
         registered geographical indication in relation to any goods
         or services, where the name is identical with the term
         customarily used in common language to describe such
         goods or services in Singapore; or

    (b) the use in the course of trade of a registered geographical
         indication, or any term contained in a registered
         geographical indication, that is the name of a plant
         variety or an animal breed.

Exceptions for prior users of registered geographical
indications and trade marks

 16.—(1) Section 4 does not apply to the use by a qualified person of
a registered geographical indication (being a geographical indication
identifying any goods other than a wine or a spirit) in relation to any
goods or services if the qualified person has, or the qualified person
and the qualified person’s predecessor in title have, continuously used
in Singapore that geographical indication in relation to those goods or
services or related goods or services either —

       (a) for at least 10 years preceding 1 January 2004; or

       (b) in good faith preceding that date.

 (2) Section 4 does not apply to the use by a person of a trade mark
which is identical or similar to a registered geographical indication
if —

       (a) the trade mark is a registered trade mark or an international
            trade mark (Singapore), and taking into account (where
            appropriate) the priorities claimed in respect of the trade
            mark under the Trade Marks Act 1998 —

               (i) the application for the registration of the trade mark
                   was made in good faith; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 20

          (ii) the trade mark was registered in good faith,

(a) under the Trade Marks Act 1998 or any previous written
     law relating to trade marks, before the date of the
     application for registration of the geographical indication
     in Singapore; or

(b) the person has, or the person and the person’s predecessor
     in title have, continuously used that trade mark in good
     faith in Singapore in the course of trade, before the date of
     the application for registration of the geographical
     indication in Singapore.

 (3) Section 4 does not apply to the use by a person of a trade mark
which is identical or similar to a registered geographical indication
if —

(a) the trade mark is, before the date of the application for
     registration of the geographical indication in Singapore, a
     well known trade mark in Singapore; and

(b) the application of section 4 to the use of that trade mark is
     liable to mislead consumers as to the true identity of the
     goods identified by that geographical indication.

(4) In subsection (1), “qualified person” means —

(a) a citizen of Singapore or an individual resident in
     Singapore;

(b) a body corporate incorporated under any written law in
     Singapore; or

          (c) any other person who has a real and effective industrial or
              commercial establishment in Singapore.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

21  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

    PART 4

    REGISTRY OF GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS
                   AND ADMINISTRATION

    Division 1 — The Registrar

Registrar of Geographical Indications and other officers

 17.—(1) There is to be a Registrar of Geographical Indications who
has the control of the Registry of Geographical Indications.

 (2) There are to be one or more Deputy Registrars of Geographical
Indications who, subject to the control of the Registrar, have all the
powers and functions of the Registrar under this Act, other than the
powers of the Registrar under section 18.

 (3) There are to be one or more Assistant Registrars of
Geographical Indications.

 (4) The Registrar and all the other officers under this section must
be appointed by the Minister.

Delegation by Registrar

 18.—(1) The Registrar may, in relation to a particular matter or
class of matters, by writing under the hand of the Registrar, delegate
all or any of the Registrar’s powers or functions under this Act
(except this power of delegation) to an Assistant Registrar of
Geographical Indications, any public officer, or any person with the
relevant qualifications for or experience in the matter or class of
matters, so that the delegated powers and functions may be exercised
by the delegate with respect to the matter or class of matters specified
in the instrument of delegation.

 (2) A delegation under this section is revocable at will and no
delegation prevents the exercise of a power or function by the
Registrar or by a Deputy Registrar of Geographical Indications.

 (3) A person with the relevant qualifications or experience
mentioned in subsection (1) is, when exercising the delegated
powers and functions, deemed to be a public servant for the
purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 22

Registry of Geographical Indications

 19. For the purposes of this Act, there is established an office
known as the Registry of Geographical Indications.

Seal of Registry

 20. There is to be a seal of the Registry and impressions of the seal
are to be judicially noticed.

                         Division 2 — The register

Register of geographical indications

 21.—(1) The Registrar must maintain a register of geographical
indications.

 (2) All of the following are to be entered in the register in
accordance with this Act:

       (a) registered geographical indications;

       (b) such other matters relating to registered geographical
            indications as may be prescribed.

 (3) The register may be kept in whole or in part using a computer.

 (4) Any record of a particular or other matter made by using a
computer for the purpose of keeping the register is taken to be an
entry in the register.

Rectification of register, etc.

 22.—(1) Any person having a sufficient interest may apply for the
rectification of an error or omission in the register.

 (2) An application for rectification may not be made in respect of a
matter affecting the validity of the registration of a geographical
indication.

 (3) An application for rectification may be made either to the
Registrar or to the Court, except that —

       (a) if proceedings concerning the geographical indication in
            question are pending in the Court, the application must be
            made to the Court; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

23  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) if in any other case the application is made to the Registrar,
         the Registrar may at any stage of the proceedings refer the
         application to the Court.

 (3A) An application to the Registrar for rectification is subject to
the rules mentioned in section 84(2)(ea).

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (4) The Registrar or the Court may allow an application for
rectification if satisfied that an error or omission exists in the register,
and that the rectification should be made.

 (5) Except where the Registrar or the Court directs otherwise, the
effect of rectification of the register is that the error or omission in
question is deemed never to have been made.

 (6) The Registrar may, on request made in the prescribed manner by
the registrant of a registered geographical indication, enter any
change in the registrant’s name or address as recorded in the register.

 (7) The Registrar may remove from the register any matter
appearing to the Registrar to have ceased to have effect.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

Inspection of and extract from register

 23.—(1) The register must be available at the Registry for
inspection by any person during the hours when the Registry is
open for business.

 (2) If the register, or any part of the register, is kept by using a
computer, subsection (1) is satisfied if a person who wants to inspect
the register or that part of the register is given access to a computer
terminal from which the person can read on a screen, or obtain a
printed copy of, the particulars or other matters recorded in the
register or that part of the register.

 (3) Any person who applies for a certified copy of an entry in the
register or a certified extract from the register is entitled to obtain
such a copy or an extract on payment of the prescribed fee.

 (4) In this section, “certified copy” and “certified extract” mean a
copy and an extract certified by the Registrar.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.                         Act 2014                          24

Falsification of register, etc.

24. Any person who —

(a) makes, or causes to be made, a false entry in the register;

(b) makes, or causes to be made, any thing false purporting to
     be a copy of an entry in the register; or

          (c) produces or tenders or causes to be produced or tendered in
              evidence any thing referred to in paragraph (b),

knowing or having reason to believe that the entry or thing (as the
case may be) is false shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

Falsely representing geographical indication as registered

 25.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) falsely represents that a geographical indication is a
            registered geographical indication; or

       (b) makes a false representation as to the goods for which a
            geographical indication is registered,

knowing or having reason to believe that the representation is false
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000.

 (2) For the purposes of this section, the use in Singapore, in relation
to a geographical indication, of —

       (a) the word “registered”; or

       (b) any other word or symbol importing a reference (express or
            implied) to registration,

is deemed to be a representation as to registration under this Act
unless it is shown that the reference is to registration elsewhere than
in Singapore and that the geographical indication is in fact so
registered for the goods in question.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

25  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

    Division 3 — Powers and duties of Registrar

Costs awarded by Registrar

 26.—(1) The Registrar may award costs in respect of the matters,
and in the amounts provided for in rules made under this Act, against
any party to proceedings brought before the Registrar.

 (2) The rules may provide for the assessment of the costs, or any
part of the costs, by the Registrar.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (3) A party desirous to obtain costs or to have the costs assessed
must apply to the Registrar in accordance with the rules.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (4) If a party is ordered to pay the costs of another party, the costs
may be recovered in a court of competent jurisdiction as a debt due by
the first party to the other party.

Security for costs

 27. If a person who neither resides nor carries on business in
Singapore —

       (a) gives notice of opposition under section 45;

       (b) makes a request under section 46 for the entry in the
            register of a qualification of the rights conferred upon a
            registered geographical indication; or

       (c) applies to the Registrar under section 52 for the registration
            of a geographical indication to be cancelled,

the Registrar may require the person to give security for the costs for
the proceedings and may, if security is not given, dismiss the
proceedings.

Evidence before Registrar
 28. The Registrar may, for the purposes of any proceedings before

the Registrar under this Act —
       (a) summon witnesses;
       (b) receive evidence on oath, whether orally or otherwise; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 26

          (c) require the production of documents or articles.

Disobedience to summons an offence

 29.—(1) A person who has been summoned to appear as a witness
before the Registrar must not, without lawful excuse, fail to appear in
obedience to the summons.

 (2) A person who has been required by the Registrar to produce any
document or article must not, without lawful excuse, fail to produce
the document or article.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months or to both.

Refusal to give evidence an offence

 30.—(1) A person who appears before the Registrar must not,
without lawful excuse, refuse to be sworn or to make an affirmation,
or to produce documents or articles, or to answer questions, which the
person is lawfully required to produce or answer.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both.

Exclusion of liability in respect of official acts

 31.—(1) The Office and the Registrar are not to be taken to warrant
the validity of the registration of a geographical indication under this
Act or under any treaty, convention, arrangement or engagement to
which Singapore is a party.

 (2) Neither the Office nor the Registrar is subject to any liability by
reason of, or in connection with, any examination required or
authorised by this Act, or any such treaty, convention, arrangement or
engagement, or any report or other proceedings consequent on such
examination.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

27  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

 (3) No proceedings shall lie against an officer of the Office or the
Registrar in respect of any matter for which, by virtue of this section,
the Office or the Registrar is not liable.

Appeals from Registrar

 32.—(1) Except as provided under subsection (2) or by rules made
under this Act, there is no appeal from a decision of the Registrar for
any matter under this Act or the rules made under this Act.

 (2) The following are subject to appeal to the Court:

       (a) a decision of the Registrar under section 22;

       (b) a decision of the Registrar under section 40(2) as to
            whether any specific goods fall within a category of goods
            set out in the Schedule;

       (c) a decision of the Registrar as to the registrability of a
            geographical indication;

       (d) a decision of the Registrar under section 42(2) on the
            practical conditions differentiating a homonymous
            geographical indication from an earlier geographical
            indication;

       (e) a decision of the Registrar under section 46(6) on a request
            for entry in the register of a qualification of the rights
            conferred upon a registered geographical indication;

        (f) a decision of the Registrar relating to a request for
            cancellation under section 52.

 (3) An appeal does not lie to the appellate court from a decision of
the Court on appeal from a decision of the Registrar for any matter
under this Act or the rules made under this Act unless permission to
appeal is given by the appellate court.

                                                                                                [23/2019; 40/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (4) In this section, “appellate court” means the court to which an
appeal under subsection (3) is to be made under section 29C of the
Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 28

Division 4 — Forms, fees, hours of business and publication

Forms and directions of Registrar

 33. The Minister may make rules for the publication by the
Registrar of —

(a) the forms to be used for any purpose relating to the
     registration of a geographical indication or any other
     proceedings before the Registrar under this Act; and

(b) the practice directions issued by the Registrar.

Fees

 34.—(1) There must be paid in respect of applications and
registration and other matters under this Act such fees as may be
prescribed.

 (2) The Minister may make rules as to the remission of fees in the
prescribed circumstances.

 (3) All fees collected must be paid into the funds of the Office.

Hours of business and excluded days
 35.—(1) The Registrar may issue practice directions to specify —
       (a) the hours of business of the Registry; and
       (b) the days which are to be treated as excluded days.
 (2) The Minister may prescribe the effect of doing any business

under this Act —
       (a) on any day after the hours of business of the Registry; or
       (b) on any day which is an excluded day.

 (3) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (2) —
       (a) different hours of business may be specified for different
            classes of business;
       (b) different excluded days may be specified for different
            classes of business; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

29  Act 2014                                                  2020 Ed.

    (c) different effects of doing business —

    (i) outside the hours of business of the Registry; or

    (ii) on an excluded day,

    (c) may be prescribed for different classes of business.

 (4) In this section, “excluded day”, in relation to any specific class
of business, means any day on which the Registry is taken to be
closed for the purposes of the transaction by the public of that class of
business.

Publication of geographical indication applications, etc.

 36. The Minister may make rules for the publication by the
Registrar of the particulars of any application for registration of a
geographical indication and such other information relating to
geographical indications as the Registrar thinks fit.

Recognition of agents

 37. Except as otherwise provided by rules, any act required or
authorised by this Act to be done by or to a person in connection with
the registration of a geographical indication, or any procedure
relating to a registered geographical indication, may be done by or to
an agent authorised by that person orally or in writing.

                                    PART 5

      REGISTRATION OF GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS

                         Division 1 — Registration

Persons who may apply for registration

 38. Each of the following persons is entitled to file an application
for registration of a geographical indication:

       (a) a person who is carrying on an activity as a producer in the
            geographical area specified in the application with respect
            to the goods specified in the application;

       (b) an association of persons referred to in paragraph (a);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 30

          (c) a competent authority having responsibility for the
              geographical indication for which registration is sought.

Application for registration of geographical indications

 39.—(1) An application for registration of a geographical
indication must be made to the Registrar in the prescribed manner
and must specify —

       (a) the name, address and nationality of the applicant;

       (b) the capacity in which the applicant is applying for
            registration;

       (c) the geographical indication for which registration is
            sought;

       (d) the geographical area to which the geographical indication
            applies;

       (e) the goods to which the geographical indication applies;

        (f) the quality, reputation or other characteristic of the goods
            and how that quality, reputation or other characteristic (as
            the case may be) is essentially attributable to the place
            from which the goods originate;

       (g) where the geographical indication for which registration is
            sought relates to a qualifying country other than Singapore,
            evidence that the geographical indication has obtained
            recognition or registration as a geographical indication in
            the qualifying country of origin, where applicable; and

       (h) such other particulars as may be prescribed.

 (2) If a person desires to register any variant constituting a
geographical indication and the geographical indication is the
subject of an application for registration, the person may include
that variant either in that application, or in a different application for
registration.

                                                                                                             [5/2020]

 (3) The application is subject to the payment of the application fee
and such other fees as may be appropriate.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

31  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

(4) The Registrar must not accept an application unless —

    (a) all the requirements under subsection (1) are satisfied;

    (b) all the fees payable under subsection (3) are paid; and

    (c) the applicant is entitled, under section 38, to file an
        application for registration of a geographical indication.

Registration only in respect of prescribed categories of goods

 40.—(1) An application for registration of a geographical
indication may only be sought in respect of goods falling within
one or more of the categories of goods set out in the Schedule.

 (2) The Registrar is to determine whether or not any specific goods
fall within a category of goods set out in the Schedule.

 (3) The Minister may, by notification published in the Gazette,
amend the Schedule.

Grounds for refusal of registration

 41.—(1) The following must not be registered:

       (a) an indication which does not fall within the meaning of
            “geographical indication” as defined in section 2;

       (b) a geographical indication which identifies goods that do
            not fall within any of the categories of goods set out in the
            Schedule;

       (c) a geographical indication which is contrary to public
            policy or morality;

       (d) a geographical indication which is not or has ceased to be
            protected in its country or territory of origin;

       (e) a geographical indication which is identical to the common
            name of any goods in Singapore, where registration of the
            geographical indication is sought in relation to those
            goods;

        (f) a geographical indication which contains the name of a
            plant variety or an animal breed and is likely to mislead the
            consumer as to the true origin of the product.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 32

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(e), any marketing material in
Singapore which uses a geographical indication is relevant evidence
that the geographical indication is not the common name of any goods
in Singapore, if the marketing material suggests (for example, by
using words or pictures) in a misleading manner that the goods to
which the marketing material relate originate in the geographical
origin of the geographical indication, when those goods originate
elsewhere.

 (3) Subject to section 42, a geographical indication must not be
registered if there exists a likelihood of confusion on the part of the
public because the geographical indication is identical with or similar
to, and has the same geographical origin as, an earlier geographical
indication.

 (4) Subject to subsection (7), a geographical indication must not be
registered if there exists a likelihood of confusion on the part of the
public because —

(a) the geographical indication is identical with or similar to a
     trade mark; and

(b) the trade mark fulfils either or both of the conditions
     specified in subsection (5).

(5) The conditions referred to in subsection (4)(b) are as follows:

(a) the trade mark is a registered trade mark or an international
     trade mark (Singapore), and taking into account (where
     appropriate) the priorities claimed in respect of the trade
     mark under the Trade Marks Act 1998 —

          (i) the application for the registration of the trade mark
              was made in good faith; or

          (ii) the trade mark was registered in good faith,

(a) under the Trade Marks Act 1998 or any previous written
     law relating to trade marks, before the date of application
     for registration of the geographical indication in
     Singapore;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

33                    Act 2014                               2020 Ed.

    (b) the trade mark has been used in good faith in Singapore in
         the course of trade before the date of application for
         registration of the geographical indication in Singapore.

 (6) Subject to subsection (7), a geographical indication that is
identical with or similar to a trade mark must not be registered if —

    (a) the trade mark is, before the date of application for
         registration of the geographical indication in Singapore, a
         well known trade mark in Singapore; and

    (b) registration of the geographical indication is liable to
         mislead consumers as to the true identity of the goods
         identified by that geographical indication.

 (7) The Registrar may, in the Registrar’s discretion, register any
geographical indication referred to in subsection (4) or (6), if the
proprietor of the trade mark referred to in subsection (4) or (6), as the
case may be —

    (a) consents to the registration; or

    (b) fails to give notice to the Registrar of the proprietor’s
         opposition to the registration in accordance with
         section 45(2).

(8) To avoid doubt —

    (a) a reference to a geographical indication in this section
         includes a variant constituting a geographical indication;
         and

       (b) a refusal of registration under this section of any variant
            constituting a geographical indication does not prevent the
            registration of any other variant constituting the
            geographical indication, if that other variant satisfies the
            requirements of this Act.

                                                                                                             [5/2020]

 (9) In this section, “marketing material” includes material used for
labelling or packaging goods, or for advertising goods.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 34

Registration of homonymous geographical indications

 42.—(1) The Registrar may register a geographical indication that
is a homonymous geographical indication in relation to an earlier
geographical indication.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Registrar may register
the homonymous geographical indication with practical conditions
differentiating the homonymous geographical indication from the
earlier geographical indication.

 (3) In determining the practical conditions to be imposed under
subsection (2), the Registrar must take into account —

(a) the need to ensure equitable treatment of all the interested
     parties concerned;

(b) the need to ensure that consumers are not misled; and

          (c) the views and submissions of the applicant for registration
              of the homonymous geographical indication and of the
              applicant for registration or registrant (as the case may be)
              of the earlier geographical indication.

 (4) The Minister may make rules to provide for proceedings for the
purposes of subsection (3)(c) and for matters relating thereto.

 (5) Where the Registrar decides to impose practical conditions
under subsection (2), the Registrar must impose practical conditions
on all the homonymous geographical indications in question.

Examination

 43.—(1) The Registrar must examine whether an application for
registration of a geographical indication satisfies the requirements of
this Act (including any requirements imposed by rules made under
this Act).

 (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the Registrar may carry out a
search, to such extent as the Registrar considers necessary, of earlier
trade marks and earlier geographical indications.

 (3) If it appears to the Registrar that the requirements for
registration are not met or that additional information or evidence
is required to meet those requirements, the Registrar must inform the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

35  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

applicant and give the applicant an opportunity, within such period as
may be prescribed, to make representations, to amend the application
or to furnish the additional or any other information or evidence.

 (4) If the applicant responds within the period referred to in
subsection (3) but fails to satisfy the Registrar that those requirements
are met, or to amend the application or furnish the additional
information or evidence so as to meet them, the Registrar may refuse
to accept the application.

 (5) If the applicant fails to respond within the period referred to in
subsection (3), the application is to be treated as abandoned.

 (6) If it appears to the Registrar that the requirements for
registration are met, the Registrar must accept the application.

(7) In this section, “earlier trade mark” means —

    (a) a registered trade mark or an international trade mark
         (Singapore), the application for registration of which was
         made earlier than the application for registration of the
         geographical indication in question, taking into account
         (where appropriate) the priorities claimed in respect of the
         trade mark under the Trade Marks Act 1998; or

    (b) a trade mark which, at the date of application for
         registration of the geographical indication in question,
         was a well known trade mark,

and includes a trade mark in respect of which an application for
registration has been made and which, if registered, would be an
earlier trade mark by virtue of paragraph (a) subject to its being so
registered.

Appointment of technical advisor

 44.—(1) The Registrar may appoint one or more technical advisors
to provide an opinion to the Registrar with regard to any matter before
the Registrar, and to the performance of any of the Registrar’s
functions under this Act.

 (2) The Registrar is not bound to accept any opinion provided by a
technical advisor appointed under subsection (1).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 36

Publication and opposition proceedings

 45.—(1) When an application for registration of a geographical
indication has been accepted, the Registrar must cause the application
to be published in the prescribed manner.

 (2) Any person may, within the prescribed time after the date of the
publication of the application, give notice to the Registrar of the
person’s opposition to the registration.

 (3) The notice must be given in writing in the prescribed manner,
and must include a statement of the grounds of opposition and such
other matter as may be prescribed.

 (4) The Minister may make rules to provide for opposition
proceedings and for matters relating thereto.

Requests for qualification to be entered in register

 46.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), any person may, at any time
after the date of the publication of an application for registration of a
geographical indication under section 45 but before the registration of
the geographical indication under section 48, request that a
qualification, of any of the rights conferred under this Act in
respect of a registered geographical indication, be entered in the
register —

       (a) in relation to any name contained in the geographical
            indication; or

       (b) in relation to any term which may be a possible translation
            of the geographical indication.

                                                                                                             [5/2020]

 (2) The request under subsection (1) may only be made on either or
both of the following grounds:

       (a) that one or more of the exceptions referred to under Part 3
            applies;

       (b) that the term referred to in subsection (1)(b) is not a
            translation of the geographical indication.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

37  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

 (3) The request must be made to the Registrar in writing in the
prescribed manner, and must include a statement of the grounds for
the request and such other matter as may be prescribed.

 (4) A request under subsection (1) may not be made if the
request —

    (a) is for a qualification of all the rights conferred under this
         Act in respect of a registered geographical indication to be
         entered in the register —

    (i) in relation to any name contained in the geographical
        indication that is the subject of the application for
        registration; or

    (ii) in relation to any term which may be a possible
         translation of the geographical indication that is the
         subject of the application for registration; and

       (b) is made on the ground that one or more of the exceptions
            mentioned in section 11(a), (b) or (c) or 15 applies to that
            name or term.

                                                                                                             [5/2020]

 (5) The Minister may make rules to provide for proceedings for the
purposes of this section and for matters relating thereto.

 (6) Subject to subsection (7), the Registrar must, if satisfied that
either or both of the grounds referred to in subsection (2) is made out,
cause to be entered in the register a qualification of the rights
conferred under this Act in relation to such of the following as may be
applicable:

    (a) any name contained in the registered geographical
         indication;

    (b) any term which is not a translation of the registered
         geographical indication;

    (c) any term which is a translation of the registered
        geographical indication.

 (7) Where any proceedings for the purposes of this section are
concluded before the registration of the geographical indication under

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 38

section 48, a qualification may only be entered in the register upon the
registration of the geographical indication in question.

 (8) Where a registered geographical indication is subject to a
qualification under subsection (6), the rights of an interested party in
respect of the geographical indication are restricted accordingly.

 (9) The Minister may make rules as to the publication and entry in
the register of a qualification under subsection (6).

Withdrawal or amendment of application

 47.—(1) The applicant may at any time withdraw the applicant’s
application for registration of a geographical indication.

 (2) An application for registration of a geographical indication may
be amended, at the request of the applicant, only by amending —

       (a) the name or other particular of the applicant;

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

       (b) errors of wording or of copying; or

       (c) obvious mistakes,

and then only where the amendment does not substantially affect the
identity of the geographical indication.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (3) Subsection (2) is subject to the rules mentioned in
section 84(2)(ea).

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

Registration

 48.—(1) Where an application for registration of a geographical
indication, or of 2 or more variants constituting the same
geographical indication, has been accepted and —

       (a) no notice of opposition is given within the period referred
            to in section 45(2); or

       (b) all opposition proceedings in respect of the geographical
            indication, or in respect of any of those variants, are
            withdrawn or decided in favour of the applicant,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

39  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

the Registrar must register the geographical indication, or each
variant that is unopposed or in respect of which opposition
proceedings are withdrawn or decided in favour of the applicant, as
the case may be.

                                                                                                             [5/2020]

 (2) The date of registration is the date on which the Registrar
registers the geographical indication under subsection (1).

 (3) On the registration of a geographical indication, the Registrar
must issue to the applicant a certificate of registration.

 (4) Where a request for the qualification of the rights conferred in
respect of a registered geographical indication was made before the
date of registration of the geographical indication, and the request is
still pending at the date of such registration, no interested party may,
pending the determination of the request, bring an action under
section 4 against the person who made the request for carrying out an
act, in relation to the geographical indication, that is the subject of the
request.

Application for limitation of scope to be entered in register

 48A.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), any person may, at any time
after the registration of a geographical indication under section 48,
apply to the Court for an order that a limitation of the scope of any of
the rights conferred under this Act in respect of a registered
geographical indication be entered in the register —

       (a) in relation to any name contained in the registered
            geographical indication; or

       (b) in relation to any term which may be a possible translation
            of the registered geographical indication.

                                                                                                             [5/2020]

 (2) The application under subsection (1) may only be made on
either or both of the following grounds:

       (a) that one or more of the exceptions mentioned in Part 3
            applies;

       (b) that the term mentioned in subsection (1)(b) is not a
            translation of the registered geographical indication.

                                                                                                             [5/2020]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 40

 (3) The application must be made to the Court in the prescribed
manner, and must include a statement of the grounds for the
application and any other matter that may be prescribed.

                                                                                                             [5/2020]

 (4) An application under subsection (1) may not be made if the
application —

(a) is for an order that a limitation of the scope of all the rights
     conferred under this Act in respect of a registered
     geographical indication be entered in the register —

          (i) in relation to any name contained in the registered
              geographical indication; or

          (ii) in relation to any term which may be a possible
               translation of the registered geographical indication
               and which is registered as a variant constituting the
               registered geographical indication; and

       (b) is made on the ground that one or more of the exceptions
            mentioned in section 11(a), (b) or (c) or 15 applies to that
            name or term.

                                                                                                             [5/2020]

 (5) The Court, if satisfied that either or both of the grounds
mentioned in subsection (2) is made out, must order the Registrar to
cause to be entered in the register a limitation of the scope of the
rights conferred under this Act in relation to any of the following that
is applicable:

(a) any name contained in the registered geographical
     indication;

(b) any term which is not a translation of the registered
     geographical indication;

       (c) any term which is a translation of the registered
            geographical indication.

                                                                                                             [5/2020]

 (6) Where a registered geographical indication is subject to a
limitation of the scope of rights under subsection (5), the rights of an

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

41  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

interested party in respect of the geographical indication are restricted
accordingly.

                                                                                                             [5/2020]

 (7) The Minister may make rules as to the entry in the register of a
limitation of the scope of rights under subsection (5).

                                                                                                             [5/2020]

Revocation of acceptance

 49.—(1) Despite section 48(1), if, before a geographical indication
is registered, the Registrar is satisfied —

       (a) that the application for registration of the geographical
            indication was accepted because of an error or omission in
            the course of the examination; or

       (b) that, in the special circumstances of the case, the
            geographical indication should not be registered,

the Registrar may revoke the acceptance of the application.

 (2) If the Registrar revokes the acceptance —

       (a) the application is taken to have never been accepted; and

       (b) section 43 again applies in relation to the application.

               Division 2 — Administration of registered
                          geographical indications

Duration of registration

 50.—(1) A geographical indication is to be registered for a period
of 10 years from the date of registration.

 (2) The registration of a geographical indication may be renewed in
accordance with section 51 for further periods of 10 years in respect
of each renewal.

Renewal of registration

 51.—(1) Any person may apply for a renewal of the registration of
a geographical indication in the prescribed manner and by paying the
prescribed fee.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 42

 (2) The Minister may make rules for the Registrar to inform the
registrant of a registered geographical indication, before the expiry of
the registration, of the date of expiry and the manner in which the
registration may be renewed.

 (3) An application for renewal must be filed not earlier than the
prescribed period before the date of expiry of the registration and not
later than another prescribed period after that date.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (3A) Where the application for renewal is made within the second-
mentioned prescribed period in subsection (3) after the date of expiry
of the registration, the fees payable are the prescribed renewal fee and
the prescribed post-expiration renewal fee.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (4) A renewal of the registration of a geographical indication takes
effect from the expiry of the previous registration.

 (5) If the registration is not renewed in accordance with this section
and the rules referred to in subsection (2), the Registrar must remove
the geographical indication from the register.

Cancellation of registration of geographical indication

 52.—(1) The registration of a geographical indication may be
cancelled —

       (a) by the Registrar upon an application by the registrant; or

       (b) by the Court or the Registrar upon an application by any
            other person on any of the grounds referred to in
            subsection (2).

 (2) The grounds for the cancellation of the registration of a
geographical indication referred to in subsection (1)(b) are as
follows:

       (a) that the geographical indication was registered in breach of
            section 41;

       (b) that the registration was obtained fraudulently or by
            misrepresentation;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

43  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

    (c) that the geographical indication has ceased to be protected
        in its country or territory of origin;

    (d) that there has been a failure to maintain, in Singapore, any
         commercial activity or interest in relation to the
         geographical indication, including commercialisation,
         promotion or market monitoring;

    (e) that, in consequence of a lack of any activity by any
        interested party of goods identified by a registered
        geographical indication, the geographical indication has
        become the common name of those goods in Singapore.

 (3) An application for the cancellation of the registration of a
geographical indication under subsection (1)(b) may be made either
to the Registrar or to the Court, except that —

    (a) if proceedings concerning the geographical indication in
         question are pending in the Court, the application must be
         made to the Court; and

    (b) if in any other case the application is made to the Registrar,
         the Registrar may at any stage of the proceedings refer the
         application to the Court.

(4) The Minister may make rules —

    (a) to provide for the manner by which a registration of a
         geographical indication may be cancelled by the Registrar
         under subsection (1)(a); and

       (b) for protecting the interests of other persons having an
            interest in the registered geographical indication.

                                                                                                             [5/2020]

 (5) Where the registration of a geographical indication is cancelled
under subsection (1)(a), the rights conferred by the registration on
any interested party of goods identified by the geographical
indication cease to exist with effect from the date of the
cancellation of the registration.

 (6) Where the registration of a geographical indication is cancelled
on a ground referred to in subsection (2)(a) or (b), the geographical
indication is deemed never to have been registered.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.              Act 2014                                     44

 (7) Where the registration of a geographical indication is cancelled
on a ground referred to in subsection (2)(c), (d) or (e), the rights
conferred by the registration on any interested party of goods
identified by the geographical indication cease to exist with effect
from —

(a) the date of the application for cancellation; or

(b) if the Registrar or the Court is satisfied that the ground
     existed at an earlier date, that earlier date.

 (8) A cancellation of the registration of a geographical indication
under this section does not affect any rights in respect of the
geographical indication that are not conferred by the registration.

(9) To avoid doubt —

(a) a reference to a geographical indication in this section
     includes a variant constituting a geographical indication;
     and

(b) a cancellation of the registration under this section of any
     variant constituting a geographical indication does not
     affect the registration of any other variant constituting the
     geographical indication.

                                                                                                  [5/2020]

Transfer of registration of registered geographical indication

 53.—(1) A registrant may apply to the Registrar for the registration
of a registered geographical indication to be transferred to another
person.

 (2) The registration must not be transferred to another person
unless that person —

       (a) is entitled to file an application for registration of the
            geographical indication under section 38; and

       (b) consents to having the registration transferred to him or
            her.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

45  Act 2014                                                   2020 Ed.

    Division 3 — Miscellaneous

Amendment of other documents

 54.—(1) The Registrar may, at the written request of a person who
has made an application (other than an application for registration of a
geographical indication), or filed a notice or other document for the
purposes of this Act, or at the written request of the person’s agent,
amend the application, notice or document —

    (a) to correct a clerical error or an obvious mistake; or

       (b) if the Registrar is of the opinion that it is fair and
            reasonable in all the circumstances of the case to do so.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (2) Subsection (1) is subject to the rules mentioned in
section 84(2)(ea).

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

                                    PART 6
            ASSISTANCE BY BORDER AUTHORITIES

                   Division 1 — Preliminary provisions

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Interpretation of this Part
 55. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “aircraft” has the same meaning as in section 2 of the Regulation
         of Imports and Exports Act 1995;
      “authorised officer” means —
              (a) an officer of customs as defined in section 3(1) of the
                   Customs Act 1960; or
              (b) any officer or class or description of officers
                   appointed under section 55A(2);

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

      “conveyance” has the same meaning as in section 2 of the
         Regulation of Imports and Exports Act 1995;

       [Deleted by Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 46

“Director-General” means the Director‑General of Customs
   appointed under section 4(1) of the Customs Act 1960;

“goods in transit” means goods imported, whether or not landed
   or transhipped within Singapore, which are to be carried to
   another country either by the same or another conveyance;

“infringement action” means an action under section 4
   concerning the importation or exportation of seized goods;

                                                                       [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

“requestor” means a person who gives a written notice under
   section 56(1) to the Director‑General;

“retention period”, in relation to seized goods, means —

          (a) the period specified in a notice given under section 59
               in respect of the goods; or

        (b) if that period has been extended under section 59, that
             period as so extended;

                                                                       [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

“seized goods” means goods seized under section 56;

                                                                       [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

“senior authorised officer” means —

          (a) a senior officer of customs as defined in section 3(1)
               of the Customs Act 1960; or

        (b) any officer or class or description of officers
             appointed under section 55A(3);

                                                                        [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

“suspected infringing goods” means goods which, or the
   packaging of which, bear a term identical with a registered
   geographical indication, but which do not originate from the
   place indicated by that registered geographical indication;

“vehicle” has the same meaning as in section 2 of the Regulation
   of Imports and Exports Act 1995;

“vessel” has the same meaning as in section 2 of the Regulation
   of Imports and Exports Act 1995.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

47                           Act 2014                        2020 Ed.

Administration of this Part

 55A.—(1) The Director-General may delegate to a senior officer of
customs (within the meaning of section 3(1) of the Customs Act
1960*) any of the powers of the Director-General under this Part
(except the power of delegation conferred by this section), subject to
such conditions or restrictions as the Director-General may
determine.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

 (2) The Minister may appoint any officer or class or description of
officers to exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and
imposed on an authorised officer by this Part.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (3) The Minister may appoint any officer or class or description of
officers to exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and
imposed on a senior authorised officer by this Part.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (4) An appointment under subsection (2) or (3) must be published
in the Gazette.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

Fees

 55B.—(1) The Minister charged with the responsibility for customs
duties may make rules to prescribe the fees payable to the Director-
General in connection with the administration of this Part.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), rules may be made to prescribe
fees for the following purposes:

       (a) for the escort of a conveyance conveying goods seized
            under section 56 or 67;

       (b) for the attendance of an authorised officer or a senior
            authorised officer in connection with the inspection or
            destruction of goods seized under section 56 or 67;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 48

          (c) for the attendance of an authorised officer or a senior
              authorised officer in connection with any other act or
              service under this Part.

                                                                              [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

                Division 2 — Seizure of goods on request

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Request for seizure of suspected infringing goods

 56.—(1) An interested party of goods identified by a registered
geographical indication may give the Director‑General a written
notice —

       (a) stating that he, she or it is —

               (i) a producer of goods identified by the registered
                   geographical indication;

              (ii) a trader of goods identified by the registered
                   geographical indication; or

             (iii) an association of such producers or traders, or of
                   such producers and traders, of goods identified by
                   the registered geographical indication;

       (b) stating that goods which are suspected infringing goods in
            relation to the registered geographical indication are
            expected to be imported or exported;

       (c) providing sufficient information —

               (i) to identify the goods;

              (ii) to enable the Director‑General to ascertain when and
                   where the goods are expected to be imported or
                   exported, as the case may be; and

             (iii) to satisfy the Director‑General that the goods are
                   suspected infringing goods; and

       (d) requesting the Director‑General to seize the goods.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

49  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

(2) A notice under subsection (1) must be —

    (a) in the form determined by the Director-General, and
         supported by such documents and information as the
         Director-General may require; and

       (b) accompanied by the fee prescribed under section 55B.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

 (3) A notice under subsection (1) shall remain in force until the 59th
day after the day on which the notice was given, unless it is revoked,
before the end of that period, by a written notice given to the
Director‑General by the requestor.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

 (4) If —

    (a) a notice has been given under subsection (1) in respect of a
         registered geographical indication;

    (b) the notice has not lapsed or been revoked; and

    (c) a person imports or proposes to export goods, not being
        goods in transit, that, in the opinion of an authorised
        officer, are suspected infringing goods in relation to the
        registered geographical indication in question,

an authorised officer may seize the goods.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

 (5) The Minister may make rules that are necessary or convenient to
be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Division, and in
particular to provide —

    (a) for the times at which, and the manner in which, notices are
         to be given;

    (b) for the giving of information and evidence to the Director-
         General; and

    (c) that an authorised officer may refuse to seize any goods
        because of non-compliance with any direction of the
        Director-General or any such rule.

                                                                        [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 50

Security for liability or expense of seizure, storage and disposal

 57. An authorised officer may refuse to seize goods under
section 56 unless the requestor —

(a) deposits with the Director‑General a sum of money that, in
     the opinion of the Director‑General, is sufficient; or

(b) gives security, to the satisfaction of the Director‑General,

for the reimbursement of the Government for any liability or
reasonable expense it is likely to incur in relation to the seizure,
storage and disposal of the goods, and for the payment of such
compensation as may be ordered by the Court under section 62(2) or
63(6).

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Secured storage of seized goods

 58. At the Director-General’s direction, seized goods must be taken
to a secure place the Director-General directs, either by the person in
possession, custody or control of those goods immediately before the
seizure or the requestor, whoever the Director-General considers
appropriate.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Notice of seizure

 59.—(1) As soon as is practicable after goods are seized under
section 56, the Director‑General must give to the importer or exporter
(as the case may be), and the requestor, personally, by post or (with
the prior consent of the addressee) by email, a written notice
identifying the goods and stating that they have been seized.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

 (2) A notice under subsection (1) must state that the goods will be
released to the importer or exporter (as the case may be) unless —

       (a) an infringement action in respect of the goods is instituted
            by the requestor within a specified period after the day
            specified in the notice; and

       (b) the requestor gives written notice to the Director‑General
            within that period stating that the infringement action has
            been instituted.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

51  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

 (3) The period to be specified for the purposes of subsection (2)(a)
is the period prescribed for the purposes of that provision.

 (4) The day specified for the purposes of subsection (2)(a) may not
be earlier than the day on which the notice is given.

 (5) The requestor may, by written notice given to the
Director‑General before the end of the period specified in a notice
for the purposes of subsection (2)(a) (the initial period), request that
the period be extended.

(6) Subject to subsection (7), if —

    (a) a request is made in accordance with subsection (5); and

    (b) the Director‑General is satisfied that it is reasonable that
         the request be granted,

the Director‑General may extend the initial period by such period as
is prescribed.

 (7) A decision on a request made in accordance with subsection (5)
must be made within 2 working days after the request is made, but
such a decision cannot be made after the end of the initial period to
which the request relates.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Persons bound to give information or produce documents

 59A.—(1) At any time after goods have been seized under
section 56(4), an authorised officer or a senior authorised officer
who has reasonable cause to believe that a person has any information
or document that the officer considers is relevant for any of the
purposes in subsection (2), may require that person to provide to the
officer that information or document at a time and place specified by
the officer.

 (2) The purposes mentioned in subsection (1) are —

       (a) to enable the Director-General to satisfy a request under
            section 59B (whether or not such a request has actually
            been received);

       (b) to enable any action to be taken under this Division or
            Division 3 in relation to future shipments of goods; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.            Act 2014                                       52

          (c) for a statistical or research purpose.

(3) A person who —

(a) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a
     requirement under subsection (1); or

(b) in purported compliance with such requirement,
     knowingly or recklessly provides any information or
     document that is false or misleading in a material
     particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $6,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6
months or to both.

 (4) A person is not excused from providing any information or
document in compliance with a requirement under subsection (1) on
the ground that it might tend to incriminate the person.

 (5) Where the person claims, before providing any information or
document pursuant to a requirement under subsection (1), that it
might tend to incriminate the person, then the information or
document is not admissible in evidence against the person in
criminal proceedings other than proceedings for an offence under
subsection (3).

 (6) No information or document that is provided pursuant to a
requirement under subsection (1) may be published, or
communicated or disclosed to any person, except where and to the
extent it is necessary for a purpose in subsection (2).

 (7) A person who contravenes subsection (6) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$6,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Information on import or export

 59B.—(1) After goods have been seized under section 56(4), the
Director-General may, upon the request of the requestor, and if the
Director-General is satisfied that the information is necessary to
enable the requestor to institute an infringement action, give the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

53  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

requestor the name and contact details of any person connected with
the import or proposed export (as the case may be) of the seized
goods.

 (2) Subsection (1) applies despite any duty of confidentiality
imposed by the common law on the Director-General or a person
to whom the Director-General has delegated the power under that
subsection.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Inspection of seized goods

 60.—(1) The Director‑General may permit the requestor, or the
importer or exporter (as the case may be), to inspect the seized goods.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

 (2) If the requestor gives the Director‑General the requisite
undertakings, the Director‑General may permit the requestor to
remove a sample of the seized goods from the custody of the
Director‑General for inspection by the requestor.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

 (3) If the importer or exporter (as the case may be) gives the
Director‑General the requisite undertakings, the Director‑General
may permit the importer or exporter (as the case may be) to remove a
sample of the seized goods from the custody of the Director‑General
for inspection by the importer or exporter (as the case may be).

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

 (4) The requisite undertakings are undertakings in writing that the
person giving the undertaking will —

       (a) return the sample to the Director‑General at a specified
            time that is satisfactory to the Director‑General; and

       (b) take reasonable care to prevent damage to the sample.

 (5) If the Director‑General permits inspection of the seized goods,
or the removal of a sample, by the requestor in accordance with this
section, the Director‑General is not liable to the importer or exporter
(as the case may be) for any loss or damage suffered by the importer
or exporter (as the case may be) arising out of —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 54

(a) damage to any of the seized goods incurred during that
     inspection; or

                                                                     [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

(b) anything done by the requestor or any other person to, or in
     relation to, a sample removed from the custody of the
     Director‑General or any use made by the requestor of such
     a sample.

                                                                     [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Compulsory release of seized goods to importer or exporter

 61.—(1) The Director‑General must release the seized goods to the
importer or exporter (as the case may be) as soon as possible after the
expiration of the retention period for the goods if the requestor has
not, before the expiration of that period —

       (a) instituted an infringement action in relation to the goods;
            and

       (b) given written notice to the Director‑General stating that the
            infringement action has been instituted.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

 (2) If —

       (a) an infringement action has been instituted in relation to the
            seized goods; and

       (b) on the 22nd day after the day on which the action was
            instituted, there is not in force an order of the Court in
            which the action was instituted preventing the release of
            the goods,

the Director‑General must release the goods to the importer or
exporter (as the case may be) as soon as possible after the
firstmentioned day.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

 (3) If the requestor gives written notice to the Director‑General
stating that the requestor consents to the release of the seized goods,
the Director‑General must release the goods to the importer or
exporter (as the case may be) as soon as possible.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

55  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

(4) This section has effect subject to section 64.

                                                                             [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Compensation for failure to take action

 62.—(1) Where goods have been seized pursuant to a notice given
under section 56(1) and the requestor concerned fails to take
infringement action within the retention period for the goods, a
person aggrieved by such seizure may apply to the Court for an order
of compensation against the requestor.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

 (2) Where the Court is satisfied that the plaintiff to an action under
this section had suffered loss or damage as a result of the seizure of
the goods, the Court may order the requestor to pay compensation in
such amount as the Court thinks fit to the plaintiff.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Infringement actions

 63.—(1) The Court in which an infringement action is pending
may, on the application of a person having a sufficient interest in the
subject matter of the action, allow the person to be joined as a
defendant to the action.

 (2) An authorised officer is entitled to be heard on the hearing of an
infringement action.

 (3) In addition to any relief that may be granted apart from this
section, the Court may —

       (a) at any time, order that the seized goods be released to the
            importer or exporter (as the case may be) subject to such
            conditions, if any, as the Court thinks fit; or

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

       (b) order that the seized goods not be released to the importer
            or exporter (as the case may be) before the end of a
            specified period.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

 (4) A Court may not make an order under subsection (3)(a) if it is
satisfied that the Government or any statutory authority is required or
permitted under any other law to retain control of the seized goods.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 56

 (5) The Director‑General must comply with an order made under
subsection (3).

(6) If —

(a) the infringement action is dismissed or discontinued, or if
     the Court decides that section 4 does not apply to the
     import or the export (as the case may be) of the seized
     goods; and

                                                                     [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

(b) a defendant to the infringement action satisfies the Court
     that the defendant has suffered loss or damage as a result of
     the seizure of the goods,

the Court may order the requestor to pay compensation in such
amount as the Court thinks fit to that defendant.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Retention of control of seized goods

 64. Notwithstanding section 61, in a case in which no order has
been made under section 63(3) in relation to the seized goods, the
Director‑General is not obliged to release or dispose of the goods if
the Government is required or permitted, under any other law, to
retain control of the goods.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Disposal of seized goods

 65. If the importer or exporter (as the case may be) does not take
custody of the seized goods within the period specified in the notice
after the notification by the Director‑General of the release of the
goods to the importer or exporter (as the case may be), the
Director‑General may dispose of the goods —

       (a) in the manner prescribed by rules made under this Act; or

       (b) if no manner of disposal is so prescribed, as the
            Director‑General directs.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                       Geographical Indications

57                     Act 2014                              2020 Ed.

Insufficient security

 66.—(1) If the reasonable expenses incurred by the
Director‑General in relation to any action taken by the
Director‑General under this Division, or taken in accordance with
an order of the Court under this Division, exceed the amount
deposited, or the amount of the security given, under section 57, the
amount of the excess is a debt due to the Government.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

 (2) The debt created by subsection (1) is due by the requestor, or, if
there are 2 or more requestors, by the requestors jointly and severally.

                Division 3 — Ex-officio seizure of goods

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Seizure and inspection of suspected infringing goods

 67.—(1) Despite section 56(4), an authorised officer may seize or
examine any goods that are —

       (a) imported into Singapore; or

       (b) to be exported from Singapore,

and that are not goods in transit, which the officer reasonably suspects
are suspected infringing goods in relation to a registered geographical
indication.

 (2) As soon as practicable after the goods are seized under
subsection (1), the Director-General must give personally, by post
or (with the prior consent of the addressee) by email, a written notice
to —

       (a) the importer or exporter of the seized goods (called in this
            Division the dealer); and

       (b) the registrant of the registered geographical indication.

 (3) The written notice in subsection (2) must —

       (a) identify the goods seized; and

       (b) set out the rights of the dealer in section 60 (as applied by
            subsection (5)), and the requirements in section 67A.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 58

 (4) The Director-General may permit an interested party of the
registered geographical indication, or the dealer, to inspect the seized
goods.

 (5) Section 60(2) to (5) applies in relation to the seized goods as it
applies in relation to goods seized under section 56(4), with the
following modifications:

(a) replace a reference to the requestor with a reference to an
     interested party of the registered geographical indication;

(b) replace a reference to the importer or exporter with a
     reference to the dealer.

 (6) At the Director-General’s direction, seized goods must be taken
to a secure place the Director-General directs, by such of the
following as the Director-General considers appropriate:

(a) the person in possession, custody or control of those goods
     immediately before the seizure;

(b) an interested party of the registered geographical
     indication who has satisfied section 67A(1)(a) and (b).

                                                                     [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Requirements for continued detention

 67A.—(1) If any interested party of the registered geographical
indication (called in this Division the relevant interested party) wants
the Director-General to continue to detain the seized goods so that the
relevant interested party may institute an infringement action in
relation to them, the relevant interested party must, within the
prescribed period after the date of the notice in section 67(2) —

       (a) give to the Director-General a written notice of this in the
            form determined by the Director-General, supported by
            such documents and information as the Director-General
            may require, and accompanied by the fee prescribed under
            section 55B; and

       (b) either —

               (i) deposit with the Director-General a sum of money
                   that, in the Director-General’s opinion, is sufficient
                   for the purpose mentioned in subsection (2); or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

59  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

    (ii) give security to the Director-General’s satisfaction
         for such purpose,

    (b) unless the relevant interested party had earlier given such
         deposit or security to the Director-General and the deposit
         had not been forfeited or returned or the security is still
         effective.

 (2) The purpose in subsection (1) is the reimbursement to the
Government of —

    (a) any liability or reasonable expense it is likely to incur in
         relation to the seizure, storage and disposal of the goods;
         and

    (b) the payment of such compensation as the Court may order
         under section 67G or section 63(6) (as applied by
         section 67F).

 (3) If subsection (1) is not satisfied, the Director-General must
release the seized goods to the dealer.

 (4) The Minister may make rules that are necessary or convenient to
be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Division, and in
particular to provide —

    (a) for the times at which, and the manner in which, notices are
         to be given;

    (b) for the giving of information and evidence to the Director-
         General; and

    (c) that the Director-General may release any seized goods to
        the dealer concerned because of non-compliance with any
        direction of the Director-General or any such rule.

                                                                        [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Notice to take action

 67B.—(1) If section 67A(1)(a) and (b) has been satisfied by the
relevant interested party, the Director-General must, as soon as
practicable, give to the relevant interested party and the dealer
personally, by post or (with the prior consent of the addressee) by
email, a written notice stating that the goods will be released to the
dealer unless —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 60

(a) an infringement action in relation to the goods is instituted
     by the relevant interested party within a prescribed period
     after the day specified in the notice; and

(b) the relevant interested party gives written notice to the
     Director-General within the period in paragraph (a) stating
     that such action has been instituted.

 (2) Section 59(4) to (7) applies in relation to a notice under
subsection (1) as it applies in relation to a notice under section 59(1),
as if a reference to the requestor is a reference to the relevant
interested party.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Persons bound to give information or produce documents

 67C.—(1) At any time after goods have been seized under
section 67, an authorised officer or a senior authorised officer who
has reasonable cause to believe that a person has any information or
document that the officer considers is relevant for any of the purposes
in subsection (2), may require that person to provide to the officer that
information or document at a time and place specified by the officer.

 (2) The purposes mentioned in subsection (1) are —

       (a) to enable the Director-General to satisfy a request under
            section 67D (whether or not such a request has actually
            been received);

       (b) to enable any action to be taken under this Division or
            Division 2 in relation to future shipments of goods; and

       (c) for a statistical or research purpose.

 (3) A person who —

       (a) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a
            requirement under subsection (1); or

       (b) in purported compliance with such requirement,
            knowingly or recklessly provides any information or
            document that is false or misleading in a material
            particular,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

61  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $6,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6
months or to both.

 (4) A person is not excused from providing any information or
document in compliance with a requirement under subsection (1) on
the ground that it might tend to incriminate the person.

 (5) Where the person claims, before providing any information or
document pursuant to a requirement under subsection (1), that it
might tend to incriminate the person, then the information or
document is not admissible in evidence against the person in
criminal proceedings other than proceedings for an offence under
subsection (3).

 (6) No information or document that is provided pursuant to a
requirement under subsection (1) may be published, or
communicated or disclosed to any person, except where and to the
extent it is necessary for a purpose in subsection (2).

 (7) A person who contravenes subsection (6) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$6,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Information on import or export

 67D.—(1) After section 67A(1)(a) and (b) has been satisfied by the
relevant interested party, the Director-General may, upon the request
of the relevant interested party, and if the Director-General is satisfied
that the information is necessary to enable the relevant interested
party to institute an infringement action, give the relevant interested
party the name and contact details of any person connected with the
import or proposed export (as the case may be) of the seized goods.

 (2) Subsection (1) applies despite any duty of confidentiality
imposed by the common law on the Director-General or a person
to whom the Director-General has delegated the power under that
subsection.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 62

Compulsory release of seized goods to dealer

 67E.—(1) The Director-General must release the seized goods to
the dealer as soon as possible after the date of expiry of the period
specified in the notice under section 67B(1) (including any extension
of that period under section 59(6) as applied by section 67B(2)), if the
relevant interested party has not, before that date —

(a) instituted an infringement action in respect of the goods;
     and

(b) given written notice to the Director-General stating that the
     action has been instituted.

(2) If —

(a) an infringement action has been instituted in respect of the
     seized goods; and

(b) on the 22nd day after the day on which the action was
     instituted, there is not in force an order of the Court
     preventing the release of the goods,

the Director-General must release the goods to the dealer as soon as
possible after the firstmentioned day.

 (3) If the relevant interested party gives a written notice to the
Director-General stating that the relevant interested party consents to
the release of the seized goods, the Director-General must release the
goods to the dealer as soon as possible.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Provisions relating to infringement action

 67F. Section 63 applies in relation to an infringement action
concerning goods seized under section 67, as it applies in relation to
an infringement action concerning goods seized under section 56(4),
with the following modifications:

       (a) replace a reference to the requestor with a reference to the
            relevant interested party;

       (b) replace a reference to the importer or exporter with a
            reference to the dealer.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

63                Act 2014                                   2020 Ed.

Compensation for failure to take action

67G.—(1) Where —

    (a) goods have been seized under section 67;

    (b) the goods continue to be detained because
         section 67A(1)(a) and (b) has been satisfied; and

    (c) the relevant interested party fails to take infringement
        action within the period specified in the notice under
        section 67B(1) (including any extension of that period
        under section 59(6) as applied by section 67B(2)),

a person aggrieved by the seizure may apply to the Court for an order
of compensation against the relevant interested party.

 (2) Where the Court is satisfied that the applicant has suffered loss
or damage as a result of the seizure of the goods, the Court may order
the relevant interested party to pay to the applicant compensation of
such amount as the Court thinks fit.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Retention of control of seized goods

 67H. Despite section 67E and any rule made under
section 67A(4)(c), in a case in which no order has been made
under section 63(3) (as applied by section 67F) in relation to the
seized goods, the Director-General is not obliged to release or dispose
of the goods if the Government is required or permitted, under any
other law, to retain control of the goods.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Disposal of seized goods

 67I. Section 65 applies in relation to goods seized under section 67,
as it applies in relation to goods seized under section 56(4), with a
reference to the importer or exporter replaced with a reference to the
dealer.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Insufficient security

 67J.—(1) If the reasonable expenses incurred by the Director-
General in relation to any action taken by the Director-General under

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 64

this Division, or taken in accordance with an order of the Court under
this Division, exceed the amount deposited, or the amount of the
security given, under section 67A, the amount of the excess is a debt
due to the Government.

 (2) The debt created by subsection (1) is due by the relevant
interested party or, if there are 2 or more relevant interested parties,
by them jointly and severally.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

                    Division 4 — Powers of inspection

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Powers of inspection in relation to vehicles

 68.—(1) A senior authorised officer, or an authorised officer acting
in accordance with the general or special directions of a senior
authorised officer, may board any vehicle in Singapore and may
inspect all parts of the vehicle for goods liable to be seized under
section 56 or 67.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

 (2) For the more effective exercise of the powers conferred by this
section, a senior authorised officer or an authorised officer may
require the person in charge of a vehicle —

       (a) to stop and not to proceed until so authorised; or

       (b) to bring the vehicle to any examination station.

 (3) It is presumed in any proceedings arising out of any thing done
under this section, unless the contrary is proved, that any authorised
officer, not being a senior authorised officer, by whom the thing was
done was acting in accordance with the general or special direction of
a senior authorised officer.

 (4) Any person who contravenes this section or who fails to comply
with any lawful requisition or direction given or made thereunder
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $6,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

65  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

Examination of packages, etc.

 69.—(1) Any goods, package, box, chest or other article which is
being or has recently been imported, or is being exported, and in
regard to which a reasonable suspicion exists that it is or that it
contains goods liable to be seized under section 56 or 67 may be —

    (a) examined and inspected by an authorised officer or
         detained until any person in charge thereof has opened it
         for examination and inspection;

       (b) subjected to such infringement verification, tests or
            analysis as the authorised officer thinks fit; or

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

       (c) marked, locked, sealed or otherwise secured by an
            authorised officer pending examination and inspection.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

 (2) An authorised officer may require the person in charge of any
package, box, chest or other article referred to in subsection (1) to
open the package, box, chest or article (as the case may be) for
examination and inspection.

 (3) If the person in charge of the package, box, chest or other article
referred to in subsection (1) refuses, or fails after being given
reasonable time and opportunity, to comply with the requirement
under subsection (2), a senior authorised officer, or an authorised
officer acting in accordance with an order of a senior authorised
officer, may forcibly open the package, box, chest or article (as the
case may be) to facilitate the examination and inspection thereof.

 (4) Any person, other than an authorised officer, who removes,
opens, breaks or tampers with any mark, lock, seal or other means of
securing any goods, package, box, chest or other article referred to in
subsection (1)(c) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $6,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (5) In this section, “infringement verification” means any process
(whether or not involving an interested party of the geographical
indication concerned) to determine if any article is or contains goods
liable to be seized under section 56(4) or 67.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 66

Power to remove packages and goods to examination station

 70.—(1) For the more convenient exercise of the powers conferred
by section 69, an authorised officer may remove any package, box,
chest or other article or any goods to an examination station or may
require it or them to be so removed by the owner thereof or his agent
or any person having the custody, charge or control thereof.

 (2) Any person who fails to comply with any such requirement shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $6,000.

 (3) Upon the failure by a person to comply with such a requirement,
an authorised officer may remove the package, box, chest, article or
goods (as the case may be) in the manner provided by subsection (1),
and all the expenses of such removal (as certified by a senior
authorised officer) shall be recoverable as a fine from that person or
from the owner of the package, box, chest, article or goods (as the
case may be).

Inspection of baggage and belongings on person

 71.—(1) Any person landing or being about to land or having
recently landed from any vessel or aircraft, or leaving any vessel or
aircraft in Singapore whether for the purpose of landing or otherwise,
or entering or having recently entered Singapore by land, sea or air,
must —

       (a) on demand by an authorised officer, either permit his or her
            goods and baggage to be inspected by the officer for any
            goods liable to be seized under section 56 or 67 or, together
            with the goods and baggage, accompany the officer to an
            examination station, and there permit his or her goods and
            baggage to be inspected in the presence and under the
            supervision of a senior authorised officer for any goods
            liable to be seized under section 56 or 67;

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

       (b) on demand by a senior authorised officer, permit his or her
            goods and baggage to be inspected by the officer, or in the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

67  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

            presence and under the supervision of the officer, for any
            goods liable to be seized under section 56 or 67; or

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

       (c) on demand by a senior authorised officer, remove
            belongings kept in or under the clothing of the person,
            for inspection for any goods liable to be seized under
            section 56 or 67.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

 (2) The goods and baggage of any person who requests to be
present when they are inspected must not be inspected except in his or
her presence, unless he or she fails to be present after being given
reasonable facility for being present.

 (3) Any person who refuses or fails, without reasonable excuse, to
comply with any lawful demand made under this section shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $6,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months or to both.

Powers of authorised officers to enter certain premises

 72.—(1) For the purpose of exercising the powers conferred by
sections 68 to 71, an authorised officer may, without warrant, enter
upon —

       (a) any islet, landing place, wharf, dock, railway or quay;

       (b) any premises of a provider of port services or facilities
            licensed or exempted under the Maritime and Port
            Authority of Singapore Act 1996; or

       (c) any premises of any airport operated under a licence or
            exemption under the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore
            Act 2009.

 (2) In this section, “railway” has the same meaning as in the
Railways Act 1905.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
             Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.              Act 2014                                     68

Obstruction

73. Any person who —

(a) refuses any authorised officer or senior authorised officer
     access to any vehicle or place which the officer is entitled
     to under this Part; or

(b) obstructs or hinders any authorised officer or senior
     authorised officer in the execution of any power
     conferred upon that officer by this Part,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $15,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Protection from personal liability

 74. No liability shall lie personally against the Director‑General, an
authorised officer, a senior authorised officer, or any person acting
under the direction of the Director‑General for anything done or
omitted to be done with reasonable care and in good faith in the
course of or in connection with —

       (a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
            Part;

       (b) the performance or purported performance of any function
            or the discharge or purported discharge of any duty under
            this Part; or

       (c) the compliance or purported compliance with this Part.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

                                    PART 7

        MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS

Registration to be prima facie evidence

 75. In all legal proceedings relating to a registered geographical
indication or any right thereunder (including proceedings for
rectification of the register) —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

69  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) the register is prima facie evidence of anything contained
         therein; and

    (b) the registration of a registered geographical indication is
         prima facie evidence that the grounds referred to in
         section 41 are absent.

Certificate of validity of contested registration

 76.—(1) If in proceedings before the Registrar or the Court the
validity of the registration of a geographical indication is contested,
and it is found by the Registrar or the Court that the geographical
indication is validly registered, the Registrar or the Court may give a
certificate to that effect.

                                                                                                           [23/2019]

 (2) Where a certificate is given under subsection (1) and in
subsequent proceedings before the Registrar or the Court —

       (a) the validity of the registration is again questioned; and

       (b) the registrant obtains a final order or judgment in the
            registrant’s favour relying on the validity of the registration
            as found in the earlier proceedings,

the registrant is entitled to be indemnified as to the registrant’s costs
as between solicitor and client in the subsequent proceedings unless
the Registrar or the Court directs otherwise.

                                                                                                           [23/2019]

 (3) Subsection (2) does not extend to the costs of an appeal in the
subsequent proceedings.

Certificate of Registrar

 77. A certificate purporting to be under the hand of the Registrar as
to any entry, matter or thing which the Registrar is authorised to make
or do under this Act, is prima facie evidence of the entry having been
made, and of the contents thereof, and of the matter or thing having
been done or not done.

Costs of proceedings before Court

 78. In all proceedings before the Court under this Act, the Court
may award to any party (including the Registrar) such costs as it may

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 70

consider reasonable, but the Registrar is not to be ordered to pay the
costs of any of the other parties.

Burden of proving use of registered geographical indication

 79. If in any proceedings commenced under section 52(1)(b) a
question arises as to the use to which a registered geographical
indication has been put, it is for the registrant to show what use has
been made of it.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 80.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            a partner; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
            its governing body; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                 Geographical Indications

71                     Act 2014                              2020 Ed.

    (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an
         officer or member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(5) In this section —

    “body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership as
       defined in section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
       Act 2005;

    “officer” —

    (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
         partner, member of the committee of management,
         chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the body corporate and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity; or

    (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
         than a partnership), means the president, the
         secretary, or any member of the committee of the
         unincorporated association, or any person holding a
         position analogous to that of president, secretary or
         member of such a committee and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (6) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with such modifications as the Minister
considers appropriate, to any body corporate or unincorporated
association formed or recognised under the law of a country or
territory outside Singapore.

Composition of offences

 81.—(1) The Registrar or any person authorised in writing by the
Registrar may compound any offence under this Act that is prescribed
as a compoundable offence by collecting from a person reasonably
suspected of having committed the offence a sum not exceeding the
lower of the following:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
             Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.     Act 2014                                              72

(a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
     prescribed for the offence;

(b) $5,000.

                       [Act 23 of 2019 wef 10/06/2022]

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings may
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) The Office may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to prescribe the offences that may be compounded.

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

Jurisdiction of courts

 82. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court or a Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to
try any offence under this Act and has power to impose the full
penalty or punishment in respect of the offence.

Minister may designate other qualifying countries

 83. The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, designate any
country or territory as a qualifying country for the purposes of this
Act.

General power to make rules

 84.—(1) The Minister may make rules —

       (a) for any purpose for which rules are authorised or required
            to be made under this Act;

       (b) for prescribing matters authorised or required by this Act to
            be prescribed;

       (c) for prescribing matters necessary or convenient to be
            prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Act; and

       (d) for prescribing matters necessary or convenient to be
            prescribed for the conduct of any proceedings or other
            matter before the Registrar.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Geographical Indications

73  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the rules may make
provision —

    (a) as to the practice and procedure of any proceedings or
         other matter before the Registrar;

    (b) as to the manner of filing of applications or other
         documents;

    (c) requiring persons to make such statutory declarations as
        may be prescribed in support of any application, notice or
        request;

    (d) requiring and regulating the translation of documents and
         the filing and authentication of any translation;

    (e) as to the service of documents;

    (ea) to enable the Registrar to publish —

    (i) an application to rectify an error or omission in the
        register; and

    (ii) a request to amend an application, a notice or other
         document,

    (ea) and to provide for the making of objections to the
          rectification or amendment by a person claiming to be
          affected by it;

                                                                            [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

      (f) authorising the rectification of irregularities of procedure;

    (g) prescribing time limits for anything required to be done in
         connection with any proceedings under this Act;

    (h) for the extension of any time limit which has been
         prescribed, or which the Registrar has specified, and
         which has not expired;

    (i) as to the giving of evidence in proceedings before the
        Registrar under this Act by affidavit or statutory
        declaration; and

    (j) for the processing of any application which is treated as
        abandoned under section 43(5).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                Geographical Indications

2020 Ed.        Act 2014                                           74

Rules of Court

 85. The Rules Committee constituted under section 80(3) of the
Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969 may make rules with respect
to —

(a) proceedings and the practice and procedure of the Court in
     respect of any matter under this Act; and

(b) the fees and costs of such proceedings.

Rights under other laws unaffected

 86. Nothing in this Act affects the rights of a person under the Trade
Marks Act 1998 or the law relating to passing off.

 87. [Omitted as having had effect]

Saving and transitional provisions

 88.—(1) Despite section 87, on and after 1 April 2019, the repealed
Act continues to apply to —

       (a) every use of a geographical indication that takes place
            before that date; and

       (b) every action brought under section 3 of the repealed Act in
            force immediately before that date.

 (2) Sections 4(6) to (9), 15 and 16 do not apply to any use of a
registered geographical indication that takes place before
21 November 2019.

 (3) Part 6 does not apply to any goods that are imported to or
exported from Singapore before the date of commencement of that
Part.

 (4) Sections 75 and 76 do not apply to any legal proceedings that
are commenced before 21 November 2019.

 (5) The Minister may, in relation to any provision of this Act, for a
period of 2 years after the date of commencement of that provision,
prescribe by rules published in the Gazette such provisions of a
saving or transitional nature consequent on the enactment of that
provision as the Minister considers necessary or expedient.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                    Geographical Indications

75                         Act 2014                          2020 Ed.

                    THE SCHEDULE

                                                                              Sections 4(6), 32(2)(b), 40(1), (2)
                                                                                               and (3) and 41(1)(b)

CATEGORIES OF GOODS UNDER WHICH GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATION
                                 MAY BE REGISTERED

  1. Wines

2. Spirits
3. Beers
4. Cheese
5. Meat and meat products

6. Seafood
7. Edible oils
8. Non-edible oils
9. Fruits

10. Vegetables
11. Spices and condiments
12. Confectionery and baked goods
13. Flowers and parts of flowers
14. Natural gum

15. Coffee

                                              [S 523/2026 wef 01/08/2026]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

           GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS
                          ACT 2014

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. 2020 Revised Edition — Geographical Indications Act 2014

Operation                 : 31 December 2021

2. Act 23 of 2019 — Intellectual Property (Dispute Resolution) Act 2019

Date of First Reading     : 8 July 2019
                                (Bill No. 17/2019)

Date of Second and Third  : 5 August 2019
Readings

Date of commencement      : 21 November 2019
                                1 October 2021
                                10 June 2022

3. Act 5 of 2020 — Geographical Indications (Amendment) Act 2020

Date of First Reading     : 6 January 2020 (Bill No. 4/2020
                                published on 6 January 2020)

Date of Second and Third  : 3 February 2020
Readings

Date of commencement      : 15 August 2020

4. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019

Date of First Reading     : 7 October 2019
                                (Bill No. 32/2019)

Date of Second and Third  : 5 November 2019
Readings

Date of commencement      : 2 January 2021

5. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021

Date of First Reading     : 26 July 2021
                                (Bill No. 18/2021)

Date of Second and Third  : 14 September 2021
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 April 2022

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                          ii

6. Act 7 of 2022 — Intellectual Property (Amendment) Act 2022

Date of First Reading     : 1 November 2021
                                (Bill No. 39/2021)

Date of Second and Third  : 12 January 2022
Readings

Date of commencement      : 26 May 2022

7. Act 34 of 2018 — Intellectual Property (Border Enforcement) Act 2018

Date of First Reading     : 17 May 2018
                                (Bill No. 24/2018)

Date of Second and Third  : 9 July 2018
Readings

Date of commencement      : 21 November 2022

8. Act 19 of 2014 — Geographical Indications Act 2014

Date of First Reading     : 5 March 2014 (Bill No. 13/2014
                                published on 5 March 2014)

Date of Second and Third  : 14 April 2014
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 April 2019
                                21 November 2019
                                21 November 2022 (Part 6)

9. Act 5 of 2025 — Electronic Gazette and Legislation Act 2025

Bill                      : 47/2024

First Reading             : 11 November 2024

Second and Third Readings : 7 January 2025

Commencement              : 9 March 2025

10. G.N. No. S 523/2026 — Geographical Indications Act 2014 (Amendment
                                   of Schedule) Notification 2026

Date of commencement      : 1 August 2026

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
.                                 iii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
     COMPARATIVE TABLE

GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS
               ACT 2014

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                     Act 19 of 2014
1—(1) and (2)                   1
39—(2)                          39—(1A)

   (3)                             (2)
   (4)                             (3)
41—(8)                          41—(7A)
   (9)                             (8)
46—(4)                          46—(3A)
   (5)                             (4)
   (6)                             (5)
   (7)                             (6)
   (8)                             (7)
   (9)                             (8)
[Omitted as having had effect]  89
[Omitted as having had effect]  90

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
