THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
          CROSS-BORDER RAILWAYS ACT 2018

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                                                                   2020 Ed.

Cross-Border Railways Act 2018

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
         Interpretation
     1.  Purpose of Act
     2.
     3.

                                        PART 2

                   PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION OF
                          CROSS‑BORDER RAILWAY

                     Division 1 — Railway plans and maps

 4. Cross‑border railway to be constructed according to railway
         plans and maps

 5. Preparation and publishing of railway plans and maps
 6. Railway plans and maps are final as to railway area

               Division 2 — Powers for construction of railway

 7. Power to enter State land to construct, etc., railway
 8. Power to enter private land to construct, etc., railway
 9. Power to enter land for pre-construction survey, etc.
10. Power to enter land for inspection and survey, etc.
11. Utility services
12. Removal of projections or obstructions
13. How power to enter land is to be exercised
14. Construction of railway bridges over Johore Straits

                    Division 3 — Compensation and funding

15. Owners who suffer substantial impairment in rights in land may
         require their land to be acquired

16. Owner-initiated acquisition
17. Funding for construction of railway infrastructure

                                                   1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2

          PART 3

          CONCESSIONAIRE FOR RAILWAY INFRASTRUCTURE

Section   Concession agreement for railway infrastructure
          Transfer or termination of concession agreement
   18.    Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc.
   19.
   20.

                                        PART 4

                        RAILWAY ASSETS OPERATOR

21. Railway assets operator
22. Contents of railway assets contract
23. Railway assets contract non-transferable
24. Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc.
25. Unauthorised open network services on cross-border railway

                                        PART 5

                          TRAIN SERVICE OPERATOR

26. Train service operator
27. Contents of cross-border train service contract
28. Cross-border train service contract non-transferable
29. Unauthorised provision of cross-border train service

                                        PART 6

                  GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR LICENCES

30. Application for or to renew licences
31. Grant or renewal of licences
32. Validity of licences
33. Restriction on transfer of licence
34. Conditions of licences
35. Modification of conditions of licence
36. Codes of practice
37. Directions affecting licensees
38. Provisional orders for securing compliance
39. Suspension or cancellation of licence, etc.
40. Appeal to Minister
41. Outstanding fees, penalties, etc.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
3        Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

         PART 7

         MONITORING COMPLIANCE

Section  Submission of reports, accounts, etc.
         Submission of further information
   42.   LTA to be informed of industrial disputes, etc.
   43.
   44.

                                           PART 8
                CROSS‑BORDER RAILWAY ADMINISTRATION

                             Division 1 — Railway opening
   45. Notice of intended opening of cross-border railway
   46. Minister to approve opening of railway

                   Division 2 — Rights for railway administration
   47. Creation of rights in, under or over land
   48. Tracks, etc., are not fixtures

                                           PART 9

                        SAFETY AND SECURITY MATTERS

                             Division 1 — Safety inspections

   49. Appointment of independent safety auditor
   50. Appointment of rail safety inspectors
   51. Safety inspections and monitoring
   52. Power of entry to premises, trains, etc.
   53. Obstructing rail safety inspectors, etc.

                 Division 2 — Accidents and suspension of railway

   54. Interpretation of this Division
   55. Compulsory reporting of accidents, etc., on cross‑border railway
   56. Service suspension order
   57. Reopening railway after service suspension order

                             Division 3 — Railway security

   58. Cross-border railway security agency
   59. Security directives
   60. Powers of cross-border railway security agency
   61. Passenger, etc., searches on railway
   62. Offence of wilfully endangering safety

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            4

Section
   63. Damage to railway
   64. Obstructing cross-border railway security agency, etc.

                                       PART 10

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

65. Administration of Act
66. Service of documents
67. Certain statements to be conclusive
68. Power to require evidence of identity in certain cases
69. Powers of arrest
70. Jurisdiction of courts
71. Offences by corporations
72. Offences by unincorporated association or partnership
73. Composition of offences
74. Exemption
75. Regulations
76. Interface with other laws

                                        PART 11
                      AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS

77. [Repealed]
78. Amendments to Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act

An Act to provide for the construction, maintenance, operation and
  regulation of cross‑border railways between Singapore and
  Malaysia in accordance with bilateral railway agreements, and to
  make related and consequential amendments to certain other Acts.

                [14 September 2020: Parts 1, 2, 3, sections 21 to 24, 26,
                27, 28, 65, 66, 67, 73 to 76, 78(1)(a), (b), (e), (f) and (g),

                                              78(2), (3) and (4), 79 and 80]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
5  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

   PART 1

   PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

   1.—(1) This Act is the Cross-Border Railways Act 2018.

 (2) Sections 25 and 29, Parts 6 to 9 and sections 68 to 72, 77 and
78(c) come into operation on a date that the Minister appoints by
notification in the Gazette.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “act of unlawful interference” means the doing or attempting to
         do anything to jeopardise the safety of a cross‑border railway,
         and includes any of the following:

              (a) unlawful taking control of a cross‑border train by
                   force, or threat of force, or any other form of
                   intimidation or by any trick or false pretence;

              (b) destroying a cross‑border train in service;

              (c) hostage-taking on board a cross‑border train, or at a
                   train station of a cross‑border railway;

              (d) forcible intrusion on board a cross‑border train, at a
                   train station of a cross‑border railway or on the
                   premises of a concessionaire or licensee, or a
                   subcontractor of a concessionaire or licensee, that
                   puts the safety of the cross‑border train, or any person
                   on board or outside the cross‑border train, at risk;

              (e) introducing on board a cross‑border train, or at a train
                   station of a cross‑border railway, a weapon,
                   hazardous device or any material intended for
                   criminal purposes;

              (f) use of a cross‑border train in service or other railway
                   asset for the purpose of causing death, serious bodily
                   injury or serious damage to property or the
                   environment;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            6

          (g) communication of false or misleading information
               for the purposes of putting the safety of a
               cross‑border train, or of passengers or crew or the
               general public at a train station of a cross‑border
               railway or on the premises of a licensee, at risk;

“auxiliary police officer” means a person appointed as such
   under Part 9 of the Police Force Act 2004;

“bilateral committee”, in relation to a bilateral railway
   agreement, means the committee of individuals established
   jointly by the Government of the Republic of Singapore and
   the Government of Malaysia under the bilateral railway
   agreement for the purpose of coordinating the
   implementation of that agreement;

“bilateral railway agreement” means —

          (a) the High Speed Rail Bilateral Agreement; or

        (b) any other agreement, between the Government of the
             Republic of Singapore and the Government of
             Malaysia only, signed after 3 October 2017 and
             providing for or about any other railway starting
             outside but ending in Singapore and which is
             prescribed by the Minister;

                                                                       [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

“code of practice” means a code of practice issued or approved
   under section 36, and includes any such code of practice as
   amended from time to time under that section;

“concession agreement” means an agreement entered into
   between the Government and a person (called in this Act
   the concessionaire) in return for the undertaking of such
   obligations by the person as may be specified in the
   agreement with respect to the design, construction,
   maintenance, operation or improvement of a cross‑border
   railway, and includes a concession agreement as varied or
   supplemented from time to time;

“concessionaire” means the person who is a party to the
   concession agreement, and includes the person for the time

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
7  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

   being entitled to exercise those rights because of an
   assignment or transfer of the agreement to that person;

   “construction”, in relation to railway infrastructure, includes —

   (a) the reconstruction or realignment of the railway
        infrastructure; and

   (b) permanently improving the railway infrastructure or
        otherwise bringing it to a higher standard,

   and any associated design, investigative and engineering
   studies, but does not include the maintenance and
   management of the railway infrastructure;

   “corresponding rail authority”, in relation to Malaysia, means a
      person or body that the Minister designates as such, on being
      satisfied that the person or body is authorised under the law of
      Malaysia to discharge functions similar to the LTA’s under
      this Act;

   “cross-border railway” means a railway which —

   (a) has a railway network with a terminus in Singapore
        and runs to any part of peninsular Malaysia; and

   (b) is constructed under this Act;

   “cross-border railway security agency” means a person or body
      of persons designated by section 58 to be the cross‑border
      railway security agency for the purposes of this Act;

                                                                          [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

   “cross-border train” means a train used for or in connection with
      providing a cross‑border train service;

   “cross-border train service” means a passenger train service
      provided using a cross‑border railway, for journeys that are
      partly in Singapore;

   “cross-border train service licence” means a licence granted
      under section 31 authorising the licensee to provide a
      cross‑border train service on a cross‑border railway
      specified in the licence;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            8

“High Speed Rail Bilateral Agreement” means the agreement
   between the Government of the Republic of Singapore and
   the Government of Malaysia, dated 13 December 2016,
   concerning the Kuala Lumpur — Singapore High Speed Rail,
   a redacted copy of which the Minister makes available for
   inspection at a public office prescribed;

“improve”, in relation to any railway infrastructure or railway
   asset, includes renewing the railway infrastructure or railway
   asset;

“independent safety auditor” means an individual appointed
   under section 49;

“land” has the meaning given by the Land Titles Act 1993;

“licence” means —

          (a) a railway assets operating licence; or

          (b) a cross-border train service licence;

“licensee” means the holder of a licence but excludes such a
   holder when the licence is suspended;

“LTA” means the Land Transport Authority of Singapore
   established under the Land Transport Authority of
   Singapore Act 1995;

“maintenance” includes the prevention, detection and
   rectification of any fault;

“management”, in relation to any railway asset, means to
   acquire, design, construct, install, operate, maintain in proper
   condition and improve the railway asset;

“modification” and “modify”, in relation to the conditions of a
   licence, include deleting or varying and substituting a
   condition, and adding a condition;

“network services”, in relation to a railway, means —

          (a) the construction, maintenance, realignment and
               renewal of tracks of the railway;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
9  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

   (b) the installation, operation, maintenance and renewal
        of a railway signalling system, railway
        communications system and railway control system;

   (c) the installation, operation, maintenance and renewal
       of operation control centres;

   (d) the installation, operation, maintenance and renewal
        of electrical conductor rails or overhead lines, of any
        support for electrical conductor rails or overhead
        lines, and of any electrical substation (including
        those for traction power or power connections) used
        or to be used in connection with those rails or lines,
        and the provision of electrical power by those means;

   (e) the provision and operation of services for the
       recovery or repair of trains or other rolling stock in
       connection with any accident on, or malfunction of,
       the railway network;

   (f) the operation of a train being used on a railway
       network for any purpose comprised in the operation
       of that network, including for a purpose preparatory
       or incidental to, or consequential on, using such a
       train;

   (g) the provision and operation of services for keeping
        the track free from, or serviceable despite,
        obstruction (whether by water, fallen leaves or any
        other natural or man‑made obstacle) or for removing
        any such obstruction;

   (h) the provision, operation, maintenance and renewal of
        any plan, equipment or machinery used in carrying
        out any activity specified in paragraphs (a) to (g);

   (i) the exercise of day-to-day control over train
       movements over or along any track comprised in
       the railway network, including the preparation of a
       timetable for purposes of such control; and

   (j) for a particular licensee, any other service which
       consists of, or is comprised in, the provision or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            10

          operation of the railway network (or of any track or
          other installations comprised in that network), and
          which is specified in the licensee’s licence;

“open network services” means network services provided to a
   train service operator for or in connection with a cross‑border
   train service provided by that operator;

“operation of a railway network” does not include operating a
   train on the network in the course of providing a passenger
   train service;

“passenger train service” means a service consisting of the
   carriage of passengers provided to the public, for a fare, by
   trains operated on a railway;

“rail safety inspector” means an individual who is appointed
   under section 50 as a rail safety inspector;

“railway” means a network or system of fixed horizontal rails,
   tracks, grooves or other guide‑ways on, under or above the
   ground along which a train moves or runs, and includes —

          (a) all railway assets built, installed or used for the
               operation of the railway; and

          (b) all railway infrastructure constructed or intended to
               be constructed for any railway and any extension of
               the railway;

“railway area” means the land delineated as such in plans and
   maps prepared, amended or replaced under section 5(1)
   or (5);

“railway asset”, for any cross‑border railway, means any of the
   following within Singapore that is used or intended to be used
   for or in connection with the cross‑border railway:

          (a) any train and rolling stock;

          (b) train tracks;

          (c) railway signalling equipment;

          (d) railway communications equipment;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
11  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

    (e) power equipment;

    (f) any other item or property which is part of the
        network of the cross‑border railway and is prescribed
        as a railway asset for that cross‑border railway;

    “railway assets contract” has the meaning given by section 22;

    “railway assets operating licence” means a licence granted under
       section 31 authorising the licensee to manage railway assets
       of a cross‑border railway specified in the licence;

    “railway infrastructure”, in relation to a cross‑border railway,
       means any of the following buildings or structures within
       Singapore that is used or intended to be used for the
       cross‑border railway, but not including any railway asset in
       or on the building or structure:

    (a) a train station;

    (b) a railway tunnel;

    (c) a viaduct;

    (d) a bridge;

    (e) a railway yard;

    (f) a maintenance facility for trains and maintenance or
        engineering vehicles used for or in connection with
        the railway;

    (g) any other building or structure prescribed as railway
         infrastructure for that cross‑border railway;

    “railway network” means —

    (a) any railway line, or combination of railway lines; and

    (b) any installation associated with any track comprised
         in that line or those lines,

    together constituting a system of tracks and other
    installations which is used solely for and in connection
    with the support, guidance and operation of trains;

    “rolling stock” includes motors, coaches, wagons, locomotives,
       trucks, trolleys, maintenance or engineering vehicles,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            12

          carriages of any kind and other kinds of engines used on a
          railway;

“security directive” means a security directive given by the
   cross‑border railway security agency under section 59;

“ticket” means any form of authorisation, issued for the carriage
   of any passenger on a cross‑border train service;

“train” means a carriage, tram, car or other vehicle for the
   carriage of passengers on a railway;

“train service operator” means a person providing services for
   and in connection with the carriage of passengers by train,
   including the carriage of luggage, parcels or mail on trains
   which at the time are available, and primarily intended for use
   by passengers;

“train station” means a building designed, equipped or set apart
   with facilities for —

          (a) the commencement or termination of a passenger
               train service;

          (b) the purchase of tickets by intending train passengers;

          (c) the boarding and alighting of train passengers and
              other matters incidental to the carriage of passengers
              by train; and

          (d) the conduct of border control functions (if any) in
               connection with train passengers boarding or
               alighting.

Purpose of Act

 3. The purpose of this Act is to provide for the construction,
maintenance, operation and regulation of a cross‑border railway so as
to give effect to any bilateral railway agreement for the cross‑border
railway.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
13  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

    PART 2

    PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION OF
           CROSS‑BORDER RAILWAY

    Division 1 — Railway plans and maps

Cross‑border railway to be constructed according to railway
plans and maps

 4. The railway infrastructure and railway assets for a cross‑border
railway must be constructed and maintained within the railway area
shown in and according to the plans and maps prepared under
section 5(1) or any amended or substitute plan or map prepared under
section 5(5).

Preparation and publishing of railway plans and maps

 5.—(1) Before the construction of any railway infrastructure or
railway asset for a cross‑border railway begins, the LTA must cause
plans and maps to be prepared in such detail and with such markings
and endorsements on the plans and maps as are sufficient to delineate
the area within Singapore (called in this Act the railway area) —

       (a) within which land may be acquired; or

       (b) within which rights in, under or over land may be exercised
            by the LTA or a concessionaire or licensee under this Act,

for the purpose of or incidental to constructing, maintaining,
operating and improving the railway infrastructure or managing the
railway assets of, or providing a network service or passenger train
service on, that cross‑border railway.

 (2) Every plan and map prepared under subsection (1) must be
approved by the competent authority.

 (3) An abstract of every plan and map prepared under
subsection (1) that is approved by the competent authority under
subsection (2) must —

       (a) be signed by an authorised officer of the LTA;

       (b) be deposited with the competent authority; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            14

          (c) be made available for inspection by the public free of
              charge at the office of the LTA, during the normal
              operating hours of the LTA.

 (4) The LTA must, within 21 days after the deposit under
subsection (3)(b) with the competent authority of an abstract of a
plan and map, cause a notice of the deposit to be published in the
Gazette containing —

(a) a general description of the plan and map; and

(b) particulars of the places and times at which an abstract of
     the plan and map may be inspected by the public in
     conformity with subsection (3)(c).

 (5) Any plan or map prepared under subsection (1) may, from time
to time —

(a) be amended; or

(b) be replaced by a substitute plan or map.

 (6) Subsections (2), (3) and (4) apply to every amended plan or map
or every substitute plan or map (as the case may be) as if it were the
original plan or map prepared under subsection (1), and the reference
in subsection (4)(a) to a general description of a plan or map must
also include a description of the nature and extent of the amendment
or substitution.

 (7) Sections 3 and 4 of the Land Acquisition Act 1966 are
applicable to the lands likely to be delineated in any plan or map
prepared for the purposes of subsection (1), or in any amended plan or
map or substitute plan or map prepared under subsection (5), as being
within the railway area.

(8) The reference to a competent authority —

(a) in subsection (2) is a reference to the competent authority
     appointed under section 5 of the Planning Act 1998 in
     respect of the review of the Master Plan under that Act; and

(b) in subsections (3)(b) and (4) is a reference to the competent
     authority appointed under section 5 of the Planning
     Act 1998 in respect of the development of land.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
15  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

Railway plans and maps are final as to railway area

 6.—(1) No person has a right of objection to the delineation of land
as railway area in any plan or map prepared under section 5(1) or to
any amended plan or map or substitute plan or map prepared under
section 5(5).

 (2) The fact that land is so delineated in any plan or map prepared
for the purposes of section 5(1), or in any amended plan or map or
substitute plan or map prepared under section 5(5), as being within
the railway area is for all purposes conclusive evidence that —

    (a) the land may be required to be acquired; or

    (b) rights in, under or over the land may need to be exercised
         by the LTA or a concessionaire or licensee under this Act,

for the purpose of or incidental to constructing, maintaining,
operating and improving the railway infrastructure or managing the
railway assets of, or providing network services or train services on, a
cross‑border railway subject to this Act.

 (3) Such of the lands shown in any plan or map prepared under
section 5(1), or any amended plan or map or substitute plan or map
prepared under section 5(5), as within the railway area are to be
treated as land required for a public purpose within the meaning of the
Land Acquisition Act 1966.

           Division 2 — Powers for construction of railway

Power to enter State land to construct, etc., railway

 7. The LTA or any person it authorises for the purpose of this
section may do all or any of the following for the purpose of
constructing, maintaining, operating or improving the railway
infrastructure or railway assets of any cross‑border railway:

       (a) at any reasonable time, enter upon any State land within or
            adjoining the railway area and take possession of that land;

       (b) subject to the approval of the Commissioner of Lands, do
            all things as are reasonably necessary for constructing,
            maintaining, operating or improving the railway

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            16

          infrastructure or railway assets of the cross‑border railway
          on, under or over the State land, including —

          (i) removing any building, or any object or structure or
              vegetation from the land;

          (ii) digging or boring of a tunnel under the land and
               erecting any building, object or structure over or
               under the land;

          (iii) underpinning or strengthening a building; and

          (iv) constructing railway passenger facilities on, under or
               over that land.

Power to enter private land to construct, etc., railway

 8.—(1) This section applies only to land which is not State land,
and land which is not owned by the LTA.

 (2) The LTA or any person it authorises for the purposes of this
section may do all or any of the following for the purpose of
constructing, maintaining, operating or improving the railway
infrastructure of any cross‑border railway:

       (a) subject to subsection (3), enter upon the land within or
            adjoining the railway area and take possession of that land;

       (b) do all things as are reasonably necessary for constructing,
            maintaining, operating or improving the railway
            infrastructure of the cross‑border railway on, under or
            over the land, including —

               (i) removing any building, or any object or structure or
                   vegetation from the land;

              (ii) digging or boring of a tunnel under the land and
                   erecting any building, object or structure over or
                   under the land;

             (iii) underpinning or strengthening a building; and

             (iv) constructing railway passenger facilities on, under or
                   over that land.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
17  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

 (3) The LTA or person authorised must not exercise any power
conferred by subsection (2) in respect of any land unless every owner
and occupier of the land is given at least 2 months’ notice of the
intention to exercise a power conferred by that subsection.

(4) A notice mentioned in subsection (3) must —

    (a) give a brief description of the works which the LTA
         proposes to carry out on the land;

    (b) state the estimated period during which the LTA intends to
         occupy or take possession of the land;

    (c) describe the area or extent of the land needed for the
        carrying out of the works mentioned in paragraph (a); and

    (d) state that any person entitled to compensation under the
         Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995 may
         serve a written claim on the LTA.

 (5) The ownership of anything is not altered by reason only that it is
placed in, under, over or affixed to any land in exercise of a right
conferred upon the LTA by this section.

Power to enter land for pre-construction survey, etc.

 9.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), the LTA or a person it authorises
for the purposes of this section may, at reasonable times, enter any
land or building described in subsection (2) in order to carry out all or
any of the following:

       (a) survey and take levels of the land;

       (b) set out the line of any works reasonably necessary for
            constructing, maintaining, operating or improving the
            railway infrastructure of the cross‑border railway;

       (c) dig or bore into the soil for the purpose of determining
            whether the soil is suitable for constructing, maintaining,
            operating or improving the railway infrastructure of the
            cross‑border railway on, under or over the land;

       (d) inspect any object or structure for the purpose in
            section 12(1).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            18

 (2) The land or building in respect of which a power under this
section may be exercised is any land or building within the railway
area in respect of which a notice has been published in the Gazette in
accordance with section 5 of the Land Acquisition Act 1966 but the
land or building has not vested in the State.

 (3) The LTA or person authorised must not exercise any power
conferred by subsection (1) in respect of any land or building unless
every owner and occupier of the land or building is given at least
14 days’ notice of the intention to exercise a power conferred by that
subsection.

Power to enter land for inspection and survey, etc.

 10.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), the LTA or a person it authorises
for the purposes of this section may, at reasonable times, enter any
land or building described in subsection (2) in order to carry out all or
any of the following:

       (a) inspect or survey the land or building to ascertain the
            condition of the land or building before or during the
            construction, maintenance or operation of, or improvement
            to, the railway infrastructure of a cross‑border railway;

       (b) carry out all reasonably necessary work of a preventative
            or remedial nature;

       (c) inspect the railway infrastructure of the cross‑border
            railway which has been constructed on, over or under
            the land or building;

       (d) carry out all reasonably necessary work for the purpose of
            maintaining or operating the railway infrastructure of the
            cross‑border railway, causing as little damage as possible
            and paying compensation to any person affected for any
            damage that may be caused.

 (2) The land or building in respect of which a power under this
section may be exercised are the following:

       (a) any land or building situated wholly or partly within the
            railway area;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
19  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

    (b) any land or building situated wholly or partly within
         150 metres of the railway area.

 (3) The LTA or person authorised must not exercise any power
conferred by subsection (1) in respect of any land or building unless
every owner and occupier of the land or building is given at least
7 days’ notice of the intention to exercise a power conferred by that
subsection.

(4) However, subsection (3) does not apply if —

    (a) the LTA is of the opinion that an emergency exists which
         necessitates immediate entry; or

    (b) the entry is required only for the purpose of an inspection
         or a survey.

(5) A notice of entry mentioned in subsection (3) —

    (a) must describe the purpose of the entry and the nature of any
         work to be carried out; and

    (b) is deemed to be given to and received by an owner or
         occupier if a written notice is affixed to a conspicuous part
         of the land or building to be entered.

 (6) In subsection (1)(b), “work of a preventative or remedial
nature” means the underpinning or strengthening of any land or
building and other work on the land or building (as the case may be)
intended to render it reasonably safe or to repair or detect damage
caused in the course of the construction, maintenance, operation or
improvement of the railway infrastructure of a cross‑border railway.

 (7) The decision of the LTA that any work is of a preventative or
remedial nature or that such work or any inspection or survey is
reasonably necessary is final.

(8) The LTA, or any person acting under its authority, may —

    (a) as the occasion requires, enter and re‑inspect and re‑survey
         any land or building in respect of which any of the powers
         contained in subsection (1) have been exercised; and

    (b) in relation to that land or building, exercise such powers as
         often as the occasion may require.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.          Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                    20

Utility services

 11.—(1) The LTA, or a person it authorises for the purpose of this
section, may serve a notice on the owner or supplier of any gas,
electricity, water, telecommunication, sewerage or drainage services
to —

(a) alter the course or position of any structure or apparatus
     (such as wire, line, cable, pipe, tube, casing, duct or post)
     which belongs to or is maintained by that owner or
     supplier; and

(b) repair any street surface disturbed by such alteration,

if, in the opinion of the LTA, the alteration is required for the purposes
of the construction, maintenance, operation or improvement of the
railway infrastructure of any cross‑border railway.

(2) A notice under subsection (1) must —

(a) specify the structure or apparatus to which the notice
     applies and set out the requirements of the LTA as to the
     alteration of its course or position and the repair of any
     street surface;

(b) stipulate the period within which such work is to be carried
     out;

          (c) be served upon the owner or supplier at least one month
              before the start of that period in paragraph (b); and

(d) state that any person entitled to compensation under the
     Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995 may
     serve a written claim on the LTA.

Removal of projections or obstructions

 12.—(1) The LTA, or any person it authorises for the purpose of
this section may, by giving notice to the owner of any land or building
in the railway area, require the owner to remove any object or
structure which is erected on or attached to, or projects from, the land
or building if in the opinion of the LTA the removal of the object or
structure is reasonably necessary for constructing, maintaining,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
21  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

operating or improving the railway infrastructure of a cross‑border
railway.

 (2) A notice under subsection (1) is taken to be given to and
received by an owner if a written notice is affixed to a conspicuous
part of the land or building that the object or structure is erected on, or
attached to or projects from.

(3) A notice under subsection (1) must —

    (a) describe the object or structure to be removed;

    (b) stipulate the period within which the work of removal is to
         be carried out;

    (c) be given to the owner of the land or building not later than
        28 days before the start of that period in paragraph (b); and

    (d) state that any person entitled to compensation under the
         Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995 may
         serve a written claim on the LTA.

 (4) If the owner of the land or building does not comply with a
notice given to the owner under subsection (1), any person authorised
in that behalf by the LTA (called in this section the authorised person)
may enter the land or building, together with such other persons as the
authorised person thinks necessary, and remove the object or
structure described in the notice or cause it to be removed by those
other persons.

How power to enter land is to be exercised

 13.—(1) Any individual authorised under this Division to enter
upon any land or building must, if so required by the owner or
occupier of the land or building concerned, produce evidence of his or
her authority before so entering the land.

 (2) Any person who refuses to give access to, or obstructs, hinders
or delays, an individual authorised under this Division in the exercise
of his or her power conferred under this Division shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$1,000.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            22

Construction of railway bridges over Johore Straits

 14.—(1) The LTA may, with the approval of the Minister, construct
or authorise to be constructed, over or in and across the Straits of
Johore that is within Singapore and any other area outside Singapore
but agreed between Singapore and Malaysia, the following:

(a) a bridge suitable for the passage of railway traffic on a
     cross‑border railway;

(b) any railway infrastructure on, under or over that bridge,
     and such roadways and footways as the Minister deems
     expedient.

 (2) A railway assets operator for a cross‑border railway may, with
the approval of the Minister, construct or authorise to be constructed
on a bridge mentioned in subsection (1), railway assets necessary for
the purpose of the cross‑border railway.

 (3) Every bridge mentioned in subsection (1) must be constructed
and maintained in accordance with the plans and maps prepared
under section 5(1) or any amended plan or map or substitute plan or
map prepared under section 5(5).

                Division 3 — Compensation and funding

Owners who suffer substantial impairment in rights in land
may require their land to be acquired

 15.—(1) The owner of any land possession of which is or has been
taken in accordance with section 8 may, by written notice given to the
LTA, request the Government to acquire under the Land Acquisition
Act 1966 —

       (a) the land; and

       (b) any other land of the owner related to the land in
            paragraph (a),

if the owner considers that he or she suffers substantial impairment of
his or her rights in the lands in paragraphs (a) and (b) because of the
taking of that possession.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
23  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

 (2) If there is more than one owner of the land concerned, the notice
under this section must be given by all the owners.

 (3) Any notice under this section is irrevocable once given to the
LTA.

 (4) For the purposes of this section and section 16, land (called
A land) is related to other land possession of which is or has been
taken in accordance with section 8 (called in this section and
section 16 temporarily occupied land) if the A land is the remainder of
a parcel of land part of which is the temporarily occupied land.

(5) In this section and section 16 —

    “owner”, in relation to any land, means —

    (a) a person who has the fee simple estate in the land;

    (b) a person who is the grantee or lessee under a State
         title for the land;

    (c) a person who has become entitled to exercise a power
        of sale of the land; or

    (d) a person in occupation of the land under a tenancy the
         term of which exceeds 7 years;

    “parcel of land” means the whole area of land that —

    (a) is the subject of a separate certificate of title
         registered under the Land Titles Act 1993; or

    (b) is a lot in a lawful division of land and capable of
         being separately held by any owner,

    and where a single building is erected on 2 or more such
    adjoining lands or lots mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b),
    includes the area comprised in those lands or lots, as the case
    may be.

Owner-initiated acquisition

 16.—(1) Upon the LTA receiving a notice under section 15(1) in
relation to any temporarily occupied land, and any other land related
to the temporarily occupied land, the President is to proceed under the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            24

Land Acquisition Act 1966 to acquire that land as if those lands were
the subject of a notice under section 49 of that Act.

 (2) The provisions of sections 49 and 49A of the Land Acquisition
Act 1966 apply (so far as relevant) to any land that is the subject of a
notice under section 15(1) with the following exceptions,
modifications and adaptations:

(a) any reference in those sections to any land that is the
     subject of a notice under section 49(1) of the Land
     Acquisition Act 1966 must be read as a reference to the
     land that is the subject of a notice under section 15(1);

(b) any reference in those sections to land temporary
     possession of which is or has been taken under
     section 42 of the Land Acquisition Act 1966 must be
     read as a reference to any land possession of which is or
     has been taken in accordance with section 8;

          (c) any reference in those sections to an owner of land must be
              read as a reference to an owner of land mentioned in
              section 15;

(d) any reference in section 49A of the Land Acquisition
     Act 1966 to a claim period for any land temporary
     possession of which is or has been taken in accordance
     with a direction under section 42 of that Act must be read
     as a reference to one year starting from either of the
     following dates:

          (i) the date of the notice under section 8 relating to that
              land;

          (ii) the date of the expiry of the term of possession in a
               notice under section 8 for the temporary occupation
               of the land, or the date the land is returned to the
               owner if earlier;

          (e) such other exceptions, modifications and adaptations as the
              differences between them necessarily require.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
25  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

 (3) All compensation for the acquisition under the Land
Acquisition Act 1966 of any land that is the subject of a notice
under section 15 is to be paid out of the funds of the LTA.

Funding for construction of railway infrastructure

 17. For the purpose of enabling the concessionaire under a
concession agreement granted under Part 3, or the LTA if no such
concession agreement is granted, to carry out its function and duty of
constructing any railway infrastructure of a cross‑border railway, the
Minister for Finance must, from time to time, provide funds by way
of grants, subject to such conditions as the Minister for Finance may
impose, to the concessionaire or LTA (as the case may be) out of
moneys provided by Parliament.

                                    PART 3

    CONCESSIONAIRE FOR RAILWAY INFRASTRUCTURE

Concession agreement for railway infrastructure

 18.—(1) The Minister may, on behalf of the Government, enter into
one concession agreement relating to the construction, maintenance,
operation and improvement of the railway infrastructure of a
cross‑border railway.

 (2) A concession agreement in subsection (1) may authorise the
concessionaire to exercise, in place of the LTA, all or any of the LTA’s
powers and functions in Division 2 of Part 2.

 (3) The Minister may cause the grant to the concessionaire of a
concession agreement a lease of any land it appears to the Minister to
be expedient to do so for the purpose of or in connection with the
exercise by the concessionaire of its functions under that agreement
and this Act.

Transfer or termination of concession agreement

 19.—(1) A concession agreement, and any right, benefit or
privilege of a concessionaire under a concession agreement, may
be transferred or assigned to another person only if —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            26

(a) the concession agreement contains a condition authorising
     the transfer or assignment; and

(b) the Minister consents in writing to the transfer or
     assignment.

 (2) Any consent under subsection (1) may be given subject to
compliance with such conditions as the Minister thinks fit to impose,
which may include modifying, or requiring or otherwise providing
for the making of modifications to, the terms of the concession
agreement.

 (3) A transfer or an assignment, or a purported transfer or
assignment, of a concession agreement, or of any right, benefit or
privilege of a concessionaire under the concession agreement, is void
and of no effect —

(a) if the concession agreement, or right, benefit or privilege
     under the concession agreement, is not capable of transfer
     or assignment;

(b) if the transfer or assignment, or purported transfer or
     assignment, is in breach of a condition of the concession
     agreement; or

          (c) if there has been, before the transfer or assignment or
              purported transfer or assignment, a contravention of a
              condition subject to compliance with which the consent
              required by subsection (1) is given.

 (4) If financial assistance has been provided under section 17 to the
concessionaire for the purpose of constructing, maintaining,
operating and improving the railway infrastructure of a
cross‑border railway, then upon the termination of the concession
agreement by the effluxion of time or otherwise, there is transferred
to a prescribed transferee by virtue of this section, without the need
for any further conveyance, transfer, assignment or assurance, all
such property, rights and liabilities of the concessionaire as in
accordance with the concession agreement that fall to be so
transferred in the circumstances.

 (5) In subsection (4), “prescribed transferee” means the LTA or a
nominee of the LTA.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
27  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc.

 20.—(1) Despite the provisions of any other written law, where a
concessionaire is a company and financial assistance has been
provided under section 17 to the concessionaire for the purpose of
constructing, maintaining, operating and improving the railway
infrastructure of a cross‑border railway —

    (a) the company must not be wound up voluntarily without the
         consent of the Minister;

    (b) no application for a judicial management order under the
         Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 may
         be made by any person in relation to the company, unless
         that person has served on the Minister 14 days’ notice in
         writing of the person’s intention to make the application;

    (c) the company must not appoint an interim judicial manager
        under section 94(3) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
        Dissolution Act 2018, unless the company has served on
        the Minister 14 days’ notice in writing of the company’s
        intention to make the appointment;

    (d) no application under section 210 of the Companies
         Act 1967 or section 71 of the Insolvency, Restructuring
         and Dissolution Act 2018 may be made by any person in
         relation to the company, unless that person has served on
         the Minister 14 days’ notice in writing of the person’s
         intention to make that application; and

      (e) no step may be taken by any person to enforce any security
           over the company’s property unless that person has served
           on the Minister 14 days’ notice in writing of the person’s
           intention to take that step.

                                                                                                         [40/2018]

(2) The Minister must be a party to —

    (a) any proceeding under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
         Dissolution Act 2018 relating to the winding up of the
         affairs of a company which is a concessionaire;

    (b) any proceeding relating to the making of a judicial
         management order under the Insolvency, Restructuring

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            28

          and Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to a company which is
          a concessionaire;

          (c) any meeting convened under section 94(7) of the
              Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
              relation to a company which is a concessionaire; or

       (d) any proceeding relating to the making of an order under
            section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the
            Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
            relation to a company which is a concessionaire.

                                                                                                           [40/2018]

 (3) A court must, when deciding any proceeding mentioned in
subsection (2), take into consideration any representation made by the
Minister in that proceeding.

                                    PART 4

                    RAILWAY ASSETS OPERATOR

Railway assets operator

 21.—(1) The concessionaire under a concession agreement granted
under Part 3 for a cross‑border railway, or the LTA if no concession
agreement is granted, may, in accordance with the bilateral railway
agreement for that cross‑border railway, authorise by a railway assets
contract one person (called in this Act the railway assets operator) —

       (a) to have the management of the railway assets of that
            cross‑border railway;

       (b) to provide network services involving the railway assets of
            that cross‑border railway; and

       (c) to perform such other functions specified in the bilateral
            railway agreement relating to that cross‑border railway in
            relation to those railway assets.

 (2) The concessionaire or LTA (as the case may be) may grant to the
railway assets operator a lease of any railway infrastructure or
railway asset as it appears to the concessionaire or LTA (as the case
may be) to be expedient to do so for the purpose of or in connection

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
29  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

with the exercise by the railway assets operator of its functions under
the railway assets contract and this Act.

Contents of railway assets contract

 22.—(1) A railway assets contract for a cross‑border railway must
relate to all railway assets in Singapore of that cross‑border railway.

 (2) A railway assets contract relating to the railway assets of a
cross‑border railway —

       (a) must specify the term of the contract;

       (b) must be subject to a condition precedent that requires the
            railway assets operator under the contract to obtain a
            railway assets operating licence before providing open
            network services involving those railway assets; and

       (c) must not provide for an option to renew the contract
            exercisable by the railway assets operator.

 (3) A railway assets contract may make provision in relation to the
management of the railway assets and the provision of network
services under the contract, and the administration of the contract,
including —

       (a) the fees (if any) payable under the contract;

       (b) monetary or other penalties —

               (i) for a breach of the contract;

              (ii) for a failure (being not a breach of contract) to meet a
                   requirement specified in the contract; or

             (iii) payable on the termination of the contract; and

       (c) the records (including accounts) to be made and kept, and
            how they are to be made and kept.

 (4) Subsection (3) does not limit the matters about which a railway
assets contract may make provision.

 (5) A railway assets contract that is inconsistent with subsection (2)
is void to the extent of that inconsistency.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            30

Railway assets contract non-transferable

 23.—(1) A railway assets contract, and any right, benefit or
privilege of a railway assets operator under a railway assets
contract, are transferable only with the prior written consent of the
Minister.

 (2) A transfer or an assignment, or a purported transfer or
assignment, of a railway assets contract, or of any right, benefit or
privilege of a railway assets operator under the railway assets
contract, in contravention of subsection (1), is void and of no effect.

Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc.

 24.—(1) Despite the provisions of any other written law, where a
railway assets operator is a company —

       (a) the company must not be wound up voluntarily without the
            consent of the Minister;

       (b) no application for a judicial management order under the
            Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 may
            be made by any person in relation to the company, unless
            that person has served on the Minister 14 days’ notice in
            writing of the person’s intention to make the application;

       (c) the company must not appoint an interim judicial manager
            under section 94(3) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
            Dissolution Act 2018, unless the company has served on
            the Minister 14 days’ notice in writing of the company’s
            intention to make the appointment;

       (d) no application under section 210 of the Companies
            Act 1967 or section 71 of the Insolvency, Restructuring
            and Dissolution Act 2018 may be made by any person in
            relation to the company, unless that person has served on
            the Minister 14 days’ notice in writing of the person’s
            intention to make that application; and

       (e) no step may be taken by any person to enforce any security
            over the company’s property, unless that person has served

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
31  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

           on the Minister 14 days’ notice in writing of the person’s
           intention to take that step.

                                                                                                         [40/2018]

(2) The Minister must be a party to —

    (a) any proceeding under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
         Dissolution Act 2018 relating to the winding up of the
         affairs of a company which is a railway assets operator;

    (b) any proceeding relating to the making of a judicial
         management order under the Insolvency, Restructuring
         and Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to a company which is
         a railway assets operator;

    (c) any meeting convened under section 94(7) of the
        Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
        relation to a company which is a railway assets operator; or

       (d) any proceeding relating to the making of an order under
            section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the
            Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
            relation to a company which is a railway assets operator.

                                                                                                           [40/2018]

 (3) A court must, when deciding any proceeding mentioned in
subsection (2), take into consideration any representation made by the
Minister in that proceeding.

Unauthorised open network services on cross-border railway

 25.—(1) A person must not provide in Singapore any open network
services in connection with a cross‑border railway unless the
person —

       (a) is authorised to do so by a railway assets operating
            licence; or

       (b) is authorised to do so by contract with a person mentioned
            in paragraph (a) (called in this Act a subcontractor).

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            32

exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                    PART 5

                      TRAIN SERVICE OPERATOR

Train service operator

 26. The concessionaire under a concession agreement granted
under Part 3 for a cross‑border railway, or the LTA if no concession
agreement is granted, may, in accordance with the bilateral railway
agreement for the cross‑border railway, authorise by a cross‑border
train service contract a person (called in this Act the train service
operator) to provide a cross‑border train service on that cross‑border
railway.

Contents of cross-border train service contract

 27.—(1) A cross-border train service contract —

       (a) must specify the term of the contract;

       (b) must be subject to a condition precedent that requires the
            train service operator under the contract to obtain a
            cross‑border train service licence before providing a
            cross‑border train service on that cross‑border railway; and

       (c) must not provide for an option to renew the contract
            exercisable by the train service operator.

 (2) A cross‑border train service contract may make provision in
relation to the provision of a cross‑border train service under the
contract, and the administration of the contract, including —

       (a) the fees (if any) payable under the contract;

       (b) monetary or other penalties —

               (i) for a breach of the contract;

              (ii) for a failure (being not a breach of contract) to meet a
                   requirement specified in the contract; or

             (iii) payable on the termination of the contract; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
33  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

    (c) the records (including accounts) to be made and kept, and
        how they are to be made and kept.

 (3) Subsection (2) does not limit the matters about which a
cross‑border train service contract may make provision.

 (4) A cross-border train service contract that is inconsistent with
subsection (1) is void to the extent of that inconsistency.

Cross-border train service contract non-transferable

 28.—(1) A cross-border train service contract, and any right,
benefit or privilege of a train service operator under a cross‑border
train service contract, are transferable only with the prior written
consent of the Minister.

 (2) A transfer or an assignment, or a purported transfer or
assignment, of a cross‑border train service contract, or of any right,
benefit or privilege of a train service operator under a cross‑border
train service contract, in contravention of subsection (1), is void and
of no effect.

Unauthorised provision of cross-border train service

 29.—(1) A person must not provide a cross‑border train service
unless the person —

       (a) is authorised to do so by a cross‑border train service
            licence; or

       (b) is authorised to do so by contract with a person mentioned
            in paragraph (a) (called in this Act a subcontractor).

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            34

          PART 6

          GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR LICENCES

Application for or to renew licences

 30.—(1) An application for or to renew a licence must be made to
the LTA in accordance with this section.

(2) An application for or to renew a licence must —

(a) be in such form and manner as the LTA may determine;

(b) be accompanied by an application fee, if prescribed; and

          (c) be accompanied by such prescribed information and any
              other additional information that the LTA requires to
              decide on the application.

 (3) The LTA may refuse to consider an application for or to renew a
licence that is incomplete or not made in accordance with this section.

Grant or renewal of licences

 31.—(1) After considering any application for or to renew a
licence, the LTA may —

       (a) on payment of —

               (i) a licence fee (if prescribed), grant the applicant the
                   licence applied for; or

              (ii) a renewal fee or late renewal fee (if prescribed),
                   renew the licence; or

       (b) refuse to grant or renew the licence, as the case may be.

 (2) In deciding whether to grant or renew a licence under
subsection (1), and the conditions to impose or modify, the LTA
must have regard to, and give such weight as the LTA considers
appropriate to, the following matters:

       (a) whether the applicant is a railway assets operator in the
            case of an application for a railway assets operating
            licence, or has a cross‑border train service contract in the
            case of an application for a cross‑border train service
            licence;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
35  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

    (b) the applicant’s capacity to do the following in a safe and
         secure manner:

    (i) to manage the railway assets of, and provide open
        network services of the type to be specified in the
        licence on, the cross‑border railway in the
        application; or

    (ii) to provide a cross‑border train service on the
         cross‑border railway in the application.

 (3) To avoid doubt, the LTA is not confined to considering the
matters specified in subsection (2) and may take into account such
other matters and evidence as may be relevant.

 (4) Without prejudice to subsection (1), the LTA may grant a
renewal of a licence with or without modifying the conditions of the
licence, but section 35 does not apply to or in relation to granting a
renewal of a licence with modifications to the conditions of the
original licence.

Validity of licences

 32.—(1) Every licence is to be in such form as the LTA may
determine.

 (2) Every licence granted or renewed under this Part is to continue
in force for such period as may be specified in the licence unless it is
earlier cancelled or suspended under section 39.

Restriction on transfer of licence

 33.—(1) A licence, and any right, benefit or privilege of the
licensee under the licence, are not capable of being transferred or
assigned.

 (2) A transfer or an assignment, or a purported transfer or
assignment, of a licence, or of any right, benefit or privilege of the
licensee under the licence, is void and of no effect.

Conditions of licences

 34.—(1) In granting a licence to any person, the LTA may impose
such conditions as the LTA considers requisite or expedient having

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            36

regard to the purposes of this Act, and the relevant bilateral railway
agreement relating to the licence.

 (2) In particular, in granting a railway assets operating licence to a
railway assets operator for a cross‑border railway specified in the
licence, the LTA may impose conditions —

(a) about the safety and security of persons using or engaged
     in work in managing the railway assets of and providing
     open network services on the cross‑border railway;

(b) relating to the conduct of the employees, agents and
     subcontractors of the licensee;

          (c) requiring the licensee itself to deal with any plague or
              epidemic, fire, flood, earthquake or disaster (natural or
              otherwise) or any other public emergency;

(d) restricting the carrying on by the licensee of any trade or
     business not related to the activity which the licensee is
     authorised by its licence to carry on;

          (e) requiring the licensee to undergo (at its own cost) such
              audit as the LTA may require to ascertain the licensee’s
              compliance with —

          (i) the requirements of or under this Act applicable to
              the licensee;

          (ii) the conditions of the licence granted to that licensee;
               or

          (iii) a direction given under section 37;

          (f) requiring the licensee —

          (i) to comply with any requirement from time to time
              imposed by the LTA (or a person nominated by the
              LTA for this purpose) with respect to such matters
              concerning the management of the railway assets and
              provision of open network services as are specified
              in the licence or are of a description so specified;

          (ii) except insofar as the LTA (or a person nominated by
               the LTA for this purpose) consents to the licensee

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
37  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

    doing or not doing them, to do, or not to do, such
    things as are specified in the licence or are of a
    description so specified; or

    (iii) to refer for determination by a person nominated by
          the LTA for this purpose such questions arising under
          the licence as are specified in the licence or are of a
          description so specified; and

    (g) requiring the licensee to acquire from such person as may
         be specified in the licence, and to use, such property or
         rights as may be so specified, or to undertake such
         liabilities as may be so specified.

 (3) In particular, in granting a cross‑border train service licence to a
train service operator for a cross‑border railway specified in the
licence, the LTA may impose conditions —

    (a) about the safety and security of persons using or engaged
         in work in providing passenger train services on the
         cross‑border railway;

    (b) relating to the safety and security of passengers of trains in
         the provision of the cross‑border train service, and other
         persons using or engaged in work on those trains;

    (c) relating to the conduct of the employees, agents and
        subcontractors of the licensee;

    (d) requiring the licensee itself to deal with any plague or
         epidemic, fire, flood, earthquake or disaster (natural or
         otherwise) or any other public emergency;

    (e) requiring the licensee to undergo (at its own cost) such
        audit as the LTA may require to ascertain the licensee’s
        compliance with —

    (i) the requirements of or under this Act applicable to
        the licensee;

    (ii) the conditions of the licence granted to that licensee;
         or

    (iii) a direction given under section 37;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            38

          (f) requiring the licensee —

          (i) to comply with any requirement from time to time
              imposed by the LTA (or a person nominated by the
              LTA for this purpose) with respect to such matters
              concerning the provision of train services as are
              specified in the licence or are of a description so
              specified;

          (ii) except insofar as the LTA (or a person nominated by
               the LTA for this purpose) consents to the licensee
               doing or not doing them, to do, or not to do, such
               things as are specified in the licence or are of a
               description so specified; or

          (iii) to refer for determination by a person nominated by
                the LTA for this purpose such questions arising under
                the licence as are specified in the licence or are of a
                description so specified; and

(g) requiring the licensee to acquire from such person as may
     be specified in the licence, and to use, such property or
     rights as may be so specified, or to undertake such
     liabilities as may be so specified.

 (4) An audit mentioned in subsection (2)(e) or (3)(e) must be
carried out by authorised officers or other officers of the LTA or such
qualified individuals approved by the LTA for that purpose.

Modification of conditions of licence

 35.—(1) Subject to this section, the LTA may modify the conditions
of a licence without compensating the licensee to whom the licence is
granted.

 (2) Before making any modification to the conditions of a licence
under subsection (1), the LTA must give notice to the licensee
concerned —

       (a) stating that the LTA proposes to make the modification in
            the manner as specified in the notice; and

       (b) specifying the time (not being less than 28 days after the
            date of service of notice on the licensee) within which the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
39  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

    licensee may make written representations to the LTA with
    respect to the proposed modification.

 (3) Upon receiving any written representation mentioned in
subsection (2)(b), the LTA must consider such representation and
may —

    (a) reject the representation;

    (b) amend the proposed modification to the conditions of a
         licence in such manner as it thinks fit having regard to the
         representation; or

    (c) withdraw the proposed modification.

(4) Where the LTA —

    (a) rejects any written representation under subsection (3)(a);
         or

    (b) amends any proposed modification under
         subsection (3)(b),

the LTA must issue a direction in writing to the licensee requiring the
licensee, within the time specified by the LTA, to give effect to the
modification as specified in the notice or as amended by the LTA, as
the case may be.

(5) The LTA must not enforce its direction —

    (a) during the period mentioned in section 40(1); and

    (b) whilst the appeal of the licensee is under consideration by
         the Minister.

 (6) If no written representation is received by the LTA within the
time specified in subsection (2)(b) or if any written representation
made under that subsection is subsequently withdrawn, the LTA may
immediately carry out the modification to the conditions of the
licence as specified in the notice given to the licensee under
subsection (2).

Codes of practice
 36.—(1) The LTA may, from time to time —
       (a) issue one or more codes of practice applicable to licensees;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            40

(b) approve as a code of practice applicable to licensees any
     document prepared by a person other than the LTA if it
     considers the document suitable for this purpose; or

          (c) amend or revoke any code of practice issued under
              paragraph (a) or approved under paragraph (b),

with respect to all or any of the following:

          (i) the safe provision of open network services and
              cross‑border train services on a cross‑border railway;

(ii) the coordination and cooperation, on such terms as the LTA
     may specify, with any other person in the use or sharing of
     any railway asset or part of it, owned or used by the
     licensee in providing any open network service or
     cross‑border train service on a cross‑border railway;

(iii) the technical compatibility and safety of operation of any
      railway asset used in the provision of open network
      services and cross‑border train services on a cross‑border
      railway;

(iv) the duties and obligations of any licensee in relation to its
     business operation insofar as it relates to the provision of
     open network services and cross‑border train services on a
     cross‑border railway.

 (2) If any provision in any code of practice is inconsistent with any
provision of this Act, such provision, to the extent of the
inconsistency —

(a) is to have effect subject to the provisions of this Act; or

(b) having regard to this Act, is not to have effect.

 (3) Where a code of practice is issued, approved, amended or
revoked by the LTA under subsection (1), the LTA must —

(a) publish a notice of the issue, approval, amendment or
     revocation, as the case may be, of the code of practice in
     such manner as will secure adequate publicity for such
     issue, approval, amendment or revocation;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
41  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

    (b) specify in the notice mentioned in paragraph (a) the date of
         the issue, approval, amendment or revocation, as the case
         may be; and

    (c) ensure that, so long as the code of practice remains in force,
        copies of that code, and of all amendments to that code, are
        available for inspection by licensees free of charge and for
        their purchase at a reasonable price.

 (4) No code of practice, no amendment to a code of practice, and no
revocation of any code of practice, has any force or effect until the
notice relating to it is published in accordance with subsection (3).

(5) Any code of practice does not have legislative effect.

 (6) Every licensee must comply with the codes of practice issued or
approved under this section that apply to the licensee.

 (7) The LTA must give a copy of each code of practice and any
amendment to or revocation of a code of practice to the Minister; but
failure to comply with this subsection in respect of any code of
practice, or any amendment or revocation of a code of practice, does
not invalidate the code of practice or the amendment or revocation, as
the case may be.

Directions affecting licensees

 37.—(1) The LTA may give directions to be observed by a licensee
for or in respect of the following matters:

       (a) the maintenance and operation of the cross-border railway
            specified in the licence of the licensee;

       (b) the safety of passengers travelling on or persons who use,
            or who are engaged in any work on, the cross‑border
            railway specified in the licence of the licensee;

       (c) the testing and commissioning of the cross‑border railway
            specified in the licence of the licensee;

       (d) the measures necessary for licensees to deal with any
            plague or epidemic, fire, flood, earthquake or disaster
            (natural or otherwise) or other public emergency;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            42

          (e) any survey for any improvement or expansion of the
              cross‑border railway specified in the licence of the
              licensee;

          (f) any other matters affecting the interests of the public in
              connection with the services provided by the licensee.

 (2) Subject to subsection (5), any direction given under
subsection (1) —

(a) may require the licensee concerned (according to the
     circumstances of the case) to do, or to refrain from doing,
     such things as are specified in the direction or are of a
     description as specified in the direction;

(b) takes effect at such time, being the earliest practicable
     time, as is determined by or under that direction; and

          (c) may be revoked at any time by the LTA.

 (3) Before giving any direction to any licensee under
subsection (1), the LTA —

(a) must give notice to the licensee —

          (i) informing the licensee of the proposed direction and
              setting out its effect; and

          (ii) specifying the time within which representations
               may be made by the licensee in connection with the
               proposed direction,

(a) unless the LTA, in respect of any particular direction,
     considers that it is not practicable or desirable that such
     notice be given; and

(b) must consider any written representation mentioned in
     paragraph (a)(ii) which is duly made by the licensee.

 (4) Every licensee must comply with every direction given to it by
the LTA under this section.

 (5) This section does not authorise the giving of a direction to any
licensee to stop —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
43  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

    (a) providing a cross-border train service on any cross‑border
         railway; or

    (b) providing network services to the extent that any
         cross‑border train service must stop.

Provisional orders for securing compliance

 38.—(1) Subject to subsections (5) and (6), where it appears to the
LTA that —

       (a) a licensee is contravening, or is likely to contravene —

               (i) any of the conditions of its licence; or

              (ii) any code of practice applicable to the licensee; or

       (b) a licensee has failed to secure the compliance by its
            employees, agents or subcontractors with —

               (i) any of the conditions of its licence; or

              (ii) any code of practice applicable to the licensee,

and that it is appropriate or requisite that a provisional order be made
under this section, the LTA must, instead of taking any decision under
section 39, by provisional order make such provision as appears to it
requisite for securing compliance with that licence condition or code
of practice.

 (2) A provisional order —

       (a) must require the licensee to whom it relates (according to
            the circumstances of the case) to do, or not to do, such
            things as are specified in the provisional order or are of a
            description so specified;

       (b) takes effect at such time, being the earliest practicable
            time, as is determined by or under the provisional order;
            and

       (c) may be revoked at any time by the LTA.

 (3) In determining whether it is appropriate or requisite that a
provisional order be made, the LTA must have regard, in particular, to
the extent to which any person is likely to sustain loss or damage in
consequence of anything which, in contravention of the condition of a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            44

licence or code of practice, is done or likely to be done, or omitted to
be done, before a decision under section 39 may be made.

 (4) Subject to subsections (5), (6) and (7), the LTA must, by notice
in writing, confirm a provisional order, with or without
modifications, if —

(a) the LTA is satisfied that the licensee to whom the order
     relates is contravening, or is likely to contravene any
     condition of its licence or any code of practice, or has
     failed to secure the compliance by its employees, agents or
     subcontractors with any condition of its licence or any code
     of practice; and

(b) the provision made by the order (with any modifications) is
     requisite for the purpose of securing compliance with that
     licence condition or code of practice.

 (5) The LTA must not make or confirm a provisional order in
relation to a licensee if it is satisfied —

(a) that the duties imposed on the LTA under this Act or the
     Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act (Cap. 158A),
     or the terms of the relevant bilateral railway agreement,
     preclude the making of such an order;

(b) that the licensee has agreed to take, and is taking, all such
     steps as it appears to the LTA for the time being to be
     appropriate for the licensee to take for the purpose of
     securing or facilitating compliance with the licence
     condition or code of practice in question; or

          (c) that the contraventions were, or the apprehended
              contraventions are, of a trivial nature.

 (6) Before the LTA makes or confirms a provisional order, the LTA
must give notice to the licensee concerned —

(a) stating that the LTA proposes to make or confirm the
     provisional order and setting out its effect;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
45               Cross-Border Railways Act 2018               2020 Ed.

    (b) setting out —

    (i) the relevant licence condition or code of practice for
        the purpose of securing compliance with which the
        provisional order is to be made or confirmed;

    (ii) the acts or omissions which, in the LTA’s opinion,
         constitute or would constitute contraventions of that
         licence condition or code of practice; and

    (iii) the other facts which, in the LTA’s opinion, justify
          the making or confirmation of the provisional order;
          and

    (c) specifying the period (not being less than 28 days after the
        date of service of the notice) within which representations
        with respect to the proposed provisional order or proposed
        confirmation may be made,

and must consider any representation which is duly made and not
withdrawn.

 (7) The LTA must not confirm a provisional order with
modifications except —

    (a) with the consent of the licensee to whom the provisional
         order relates; or

    (b) after —

    (i) serving on that licensee such notice of the proposal to
        confirm the provisional order with modifications and
        in that notice, specifying the period (not being less
        than 28 days after the date of service of the notice)
        within which representations with respect to the
        proposed modifications may be made; and

    (ii) considering any representation which is duly made
         and not withdrawn.

 (8) In this section, “provisional order” means an order under this
section which, if not previously confirmed in accordance with
subsection (5), will cease to have effect at the end of such period (not
exceeding 3 months) as is determined by or under the order.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            46

Suspension or cancellation of licence, etc.

 39.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), if any licensee for a cross‑border
railway —

(a) contravenes or fails to comply with, or fails to secure the
     compliance by its employees, agents or subcontractors
     with —

          (i) any of the conditions of its licence;

          (ii) any code of practice applicable to the licensee; or

          (iii) any requirement of or under this Act which is
                applicable to the licensee in relation to that railway
                and for which no criminal penalty is prescribed for a
                contravention of the requirement;

(b) is convicted of any offence under this Act;

          (c) in the opinion of the LTA, fails or is likely to fail to provide
              and maintain a safe and secure service in relation to that
              cross‑border railway;

(d) fails to comply with any direction given by the LTA under
     section 37 in relation to that cross‑border railway;

          (e) fails to comply with any provisional order confirmed under
              section 38;

          (f) fails to comply with any service suspension order under
              section 56 in relation to that cross‑border railway;

(g) goes into compulsory or voluntary liquidation other than
     for the purpose of reconstruction or amalgamation; or

(h) makes any assignment to, or composition with, its creditors
     or, if a company, is unable to pay its debts,

the LTA may, by notice in writing and without any compensation, do
all or any of the following:

          (i) suspend or cancel the licence of the licensee for that
              cross‑border railway;

(ii) require the licensee to pay, within a specified period, a
     financial penalty of such amount as the LTA thinks fit,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
47  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

    which in any case must not exceed the maximum amount
    specified in subsection (2).

 (2) For the purposes of requiring a licensee for a cross‑border
railway to pay a financial penalty under subsection (1)(ii), the
maximum amount means the higher of the following amounts:

    (a) $1 million; or

    (b) 10% of the licensee’s gross annual revenue that is received
         during the licensee’s last‑completed financial year (as
         ascertained from the licensee’s latest audited accounts)
         from the management of railway assets and provision of
         open network services, or the provision of cross‑border
         train services (as the case may be) involving that
         cross‑border railway.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1)(h), a company is unable to
pay its debts if it is a company which is deemed to be so unable under
section 125(2) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act
2018.

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2018 wef 30/09/2026]

Appeal to Minister

 40.—(1) Any licensee aggrieved by —

       (a) any licence condition imposed by the LTA under
            section 34(2) or (3);

       (b) any modification of the conditions of its licence under
            section 35;

       (c) any direction given by the LTA under section 37;

       (d) any decision made by the LTA under section 39(1)(i) or
            (ii);

       (e) any confirmed provisional order under section 38; or

        (f) the refusal of the LTA to renew its licence,

may, within 14 days after the receipt of the notice relating to the
relevant matter, appeal to the Minister.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            48

 (2) Except as provided in subsection (3) or section 35(5) or unless
the Minister otherwise directs, where an appeal is lodged by a
licensee under this section, the licensee must continue to comply with
any licence condition, direction, decision, confirmed provisional
order or refusal being appealed against, until the determination of the
appeal.

 (3) If any such appeal is made in relation to a provision of a notice
under section 39(1)(ii) requiring the payment of a financial penalty
and the financial penalty would be payable before the time when the
appeal is determined, it need not be paid until that time.

 (4) The Minister may determine an appeal under this section by
confirming, varying or reversing any decision of the LTA, or by
amending any licence condition, direction, or confirmed provisional
order, affecting the licensee.

(5) The decision of the Minister on appeal is final.

 (6) In deciding on an appeal under this section, the Minister may
consult the relevant bilateral committee for the railway concerned,
but is not bound by the opinion of the bilateral committee.

 (7) In subsections (1) and (2), a reference to licensee includes a
former licensee if the decision appealed against is the cancellation of
a licence or refusal to renew a licence.

Outstanding fees, penalties, etc.

 41.—(1) If —

       (a) any fee imposed under section 31 in respect of a licence is
            not paid in full by the due date for payment; or

       (b) any financial penalty imposed under section 39(1)(ii) in
            respect of a licensee is not paid in full by the due date for
            payment,

interest at the prescribed rate is payable by the licensee concerned on
the outstanding amount of any such fee or financial penalty.

 (2) The LTA may recover as a debt in a court of competent
jurisdiction any of the following amounts that has become due and
payable but has not been paid:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
49  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

    (a) any fee imposed under section 31 in respect of a licence;

    (b) any financial penalty imposed under section 39(1)(ii);

    (c) any interest imposed under subsection (1),

and the liability of the licensee concerned to pay is not affected by its
licence ceasing (for any reason) to be in force.

                                    PART 7

                     MONITORING COMPLIANCE

Submission of reports, accounts, etc.

 42.—(1) Within 3 months after the end of each financial year of a
licensee or such longer period as the LTA may in writing allow on any
particular instance, the licensee must deliver to the LTA —

       (a) a report of its operations during that financial year
            containing such information as is necessary to enable the
            LTA to assess the licensee; and

       (b) its audited annual balance sheet, profit and loss account
            and the reports of its auditor and directors.

 (2) The report required under subsection (1)(a) must be in such
form as may be required by the LTA.

Submission of further information

 43. The LTA may, by order in writing, require a licensee to submit
such further or additional information as it may deem necessary with
reference to any report, accounts or information forwarded by that
licensee under section 42, and that further or additional information
must be submitted within such period and in such manner as the LTA
may require.

LTA to be informed of industrial disputes, etc.

 44. It is the duty of every licensee, at all times, to inform the LTA
immediately of the following matters:

       (a) any industrial dispute between the licensee and its
            employees;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            50

(b) any fire occurrence within the premises it carries out
     activities authorised under its licence;

          (c) any proceeding or claim instituted or made against the
              licensee which might have an adverse effect on its financial
              condition or on its ability to comply with any condition of
              its licence, any code of practice applicable to the licensee
              and any applicable requirement by or under this Act.

                                    PART 8

         CROSS‑BORDER RAILWAY ADMINISTRATION

                      Division 1 — Railway opening

Notice of intended opening of cross-border railway

 45.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the concessionaire under a
concession agreement granted under Part 3 for a cross‑border railway,
or the LTA if no concession agreement is granted, must at least
3 months before the intended date of opening of the cross‑border
railway —

       (a) cause notice to be given in writing to the Minister of the
            intention to open the railway; and

       (b) apply to the Minister for approval under section 46 to open
            the railway.

 (2) The Minister may, in his or her discretion or on application,
reduce the period of or dispense with the notice mentioned in
subsection (1).

 (3) In this Part, opening a cross-border railway means to start
providing to the public cross‑border train services on the cross‑border
railway, and includes —

       (a) selling, offering to sell or advertising for sale any ticket for
            carriage on a train as part of those services; or

       (b) supplying a ticket for carriage on a train as part of those
            services, in circumstances in which the supplier derives a
            direct benefit, pecuniary or otherwise.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
51  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

Minister to approve opening of railway

 46.—(1) A cross-border railway must not be opened except with
the Minister’s approval.

 (2) The Minister may refuse an application under section 45(1) to
open a cross‑border railway if there is no satisfactory report by an
independent verification and validation agent about the cross‑border
railway.

 (3) A report by an independent verification and validation agent is
unsatisfactory unless it states that —

    (a) the independent verification and validation agent has
         inspected the cross‑border railway in question, including
         the railway assets and all other equipment to be used for or
         in connection with the provision of network services for
         and cross‑border train services on that cross‑border
         railway; and

    (b) in the independent verification and validation agent’s
         opinion —

    (i) the cross-border railway in question is fit to receive
        trains and to open; and

    (ii) the opening of the cross‑border railway is unlikely to
         endanger or damage any railway asset or railway
         infrastructure of the railway, or endanger any
         passenger to be carried or person lawfully
         employed or engaged to work on that railway.

 (4) The Minister may require the independent verification and
validation agent to provide such other information as the Minister
requires for the purpose of this section.

 (5) In deciding whether to give his or her approval under
subsection (1) to open a cross‑border railway, the Minister must
consult the relevant bilateral committee for the railway but is not
bound by the opinion of the bilateral committee.

 (6) An independent verification and validation agent is a person
who is jointly appointed by —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            52

(a) the concessionaire for a cross-border railway, or the LTA if
     there is no concession agreement; and

(b) the corresponding concessionaire,

with the approval of the bilateral committee for that railway.

 (7) In subsection (6), the corresponding concessionaire for a
cross‑border railway is a person or body whom the Minister
designates as such, on being satisfied that the person or body is
authorised to design, construct, maintain, operate or improve the
railway infrastructure in Malaysia of the cross‑border railway.

            Division 2 — Rights for railway administration

Creation of rights in, under or over land

 47.—(1) From the date of publication in the Gazette of an order of
creation of a right under this subsection —

       (a) the concessionaire or, the LTA if there is no concession
            agreement for a cross‑border railway;

       (b) the railway assets operator for a cross‑border railway; and

       (c) the train service operator for a cross‑border railway,

may enter upon such land within the railway area for that cross‑border
railway as described in the order (not being State land or land
belonging to the LTA), and exercise such permanent rights in, under
or over such land or such rights of temporary occupation of the land
as may be specified in the order.

 (2) Any right mentioned in an order under subsection (1) is limited
to a right conferring such rights and powers as are necessary or
convenient —

       (a) in the case of the concessionaire or, the LTA if there is no
            concession agreement granted, for the purposes of and
            incidental to constructing, maintaining, operating and
            improving the railway infrastructure of a cross‑border
            railway specified in the order;

       (b) in the case of the railway assets operator for a cross‑border
            railway, for the purposes of and incidental to management

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
53  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

    of the railway assets of, and providing network services
    for, the cross‑border railway specified in the order; and

    (c) in the case of the train service operator for a cross‑border
        railway, for the purposes of and incidental to providing a
        cross‑border train service on the cross‑border railway
        specified in the order.

 (3) Subject to this section, the LTA may, by order in the Gazette,
declare that land within the railway area for a cross‑border railway as
described in the order (not being State land or land belonging to the
LTA), is set aside for use by members of the public as an entrance to
or exit from a train station of a cross‑border railway, but without
derogating from any right of passage conferred by the common law.

 (4) An order made under this section attaches to the land and is
binding on all persons who from time to time have an interest in the
land.

(5) An order made under this section must —

    (a) be made by the LTA;

    (b) describe the right in, under or over land, the right of
         temporary occupation or the public’s right of passage, as
         the case may be, and the area of land subject to such right;
         and

    (c) state particulars of the places and times at which a copy of
        a plan of the area of land subject to such right may be
        inspected.

(6) In addition, an order made under subsection (3) may —

    (a) provide for periods during which the entrance to or exit
         from a train station is closed; and

    (b) include terms and conditions as to the use and management
         of the entrance or exit.

(7) An order made under this section may be amended at any time.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            54

Tracks, etc., are not fixtures

 48. Every track, installation or plant used for a cross‑border railway
and placed under, over, along, across, in or upon any property by the
LTA, a concessionaire or a railway assets operator in the discharge of
their functions under this Act remains the property of the LTA,
concessionaire or railway assets operator (as the case may be),
whether or not it has become in whole or in part a fixture.

                                    PART 9

                 SAFETY AND SECURITY MATTERS

                      Division 1 — Safety inspections

Appointment of independent safety auditor

 49. The LTA must, in accordance with the relevant bilateral railway
agreement for the cross‑border railway in question, jointly appoint an
individual as the independent safety auditor for the cross‑border
railway.

Appointment of rail safety inspectors

 50.—(1) The LTA may, in writing, appoint as rail safety inspectors
any of the following persons:

       (a) any employee of the LTA with suitable qualifications and
            experience to properly exercise the powers of a rail safety
            inspector;

       (b) any individual who is not an employee of the LTA and has
            suitable qualifications and experience to properly exercise
            the powers of a rail safety inspector.

 (2) The LTA must issue to each rail safety inspector an
identification card, which must be carried at all times by the rail
safety inspector when exercising powers under this Act.

 (3) Without affecting the Land Transport Authority of Singapore
Act 1995, but subject to subsection (4), the LTA may delegate the
exercise of all or any of the powers conferred or duties imposed upon
it under this Part to such of its employees, and such other individuals

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
55  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

who are not its employees, as it appoints under this section to be a rail
safety inspector.

 (4) However, nothing in subsection (3) authorises delegating the
power of delegation conferred by that subsection.

 (5) Any delegation under subsection (3) may be general or in a
particular case and may be subject to such conditions or limitations as
set out in this Act or as the LTA may specify.

 (6) Every rail safety inspector who is not an employee of the LTA
and acting under this Part is to be regarded as a public servant for the
purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

Safety inspections and monitoring

 51.—(1) The LTA or independent safety auditor may, by notice in
writing, require, after the opening of a cross‑border railway —

       (a) any licensee for the cross-border railway;

       (b) the concessionaire for the cross-border railway; or

       (c) a subcontractor of a licensee for the cross‑border railway,

to undergo such inspection or monitoring as the LTA or independent
safety auditor considers, on reasonable grounds, necessary in the
interests of ensuring the safety of the cross‑border railway.

 (2) In addition, the independent safety auditor may, by notice in
writing, after the opening of a cross‑border railway, require the LTA if
there is no concession agreement granted for the cross‑border
railway, to undergo such inspection or monitoring as the
independent safety auditor considers, on reasonable grounds,
necessary in the interests of ensuring the safety of the cross‑border
railway.

 (3) For the purposes of any inspection or monitoring under
subsection (1) or (2), the LTA or independent safety auditor may in
respect of any person described in subsection (1) or (2), by notice in
writing, require from that person such information as the LTA or
independent safety auditor, as the case may be, considers relevant to
the inspection or monitoring.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            56

 (4) Any person to whom a notice under subsection (1), (2) or (3) is
given who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with the
requirements of the notice shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

Power of entry to premises, trains, etc.

 52.—(1) For the purpose of finding out whether an applicable
requirement of this Act is being complied with, every rail safety
inspector has the right of access, at any reasonable time, to the
following:

       (a) any railway infrastructure of a cross‑border railway;

       (b) any railway asset of a cross‑border railway;

       (c) any premises in Singapore used for undertaking any
            activity connected with managing railway assets,
            providing network services for or providing a
            cross‑border train service on a cross‑border railway;

       (d) any document or record concerning any matter or activity
            mentioned in paragraph (a), (b) or (c).

 (2) A rail safety inspector is authorised to enter any railway
infrastructure, railway asset or premises mentioned in subsection (1)
only if its occupier has consented to the entry or after giving 3 hours’
prior notice of that entry to the occupier.

 (3) A rail safety inspector who is authorised under subsection (1) to
have access to or to enter any railway infrastructure, railway asset or
premises mentioned in that subsection may —

       (a) require any person who is in possession of any certificate,
            book, manual, record or other document relating to any
            railway infrastructure or railway asset, or the provision of
            network services or cross‑border train services to produce
            the certificate, book, manual, record or document, and take
            and retain extracts or copies of it;

       (b) require any person in possession of, or having control of,
            any machinery, equipment or other thing relating to the
            maintenance, operation or improvement of any railway

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
57  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

    infrastructure, the management of a railway asset, or the
    provision of network services or a cross‑border train
    service, as the case may be —

    (i) to produce the machinery, equipment or other thing
        for inspection; and

    (ii) to answer questions or provide information relating
         to the machinery, equipment or other thing;

    (c) inspect and test any machinery, equipment or other thing
        mentioned in paragraph (b), or require any person to do
        anything which the rail safety inspector reasonably
        considers to be necessary for facilitating such test or
        inspection;

    (d) if the rail safety inspector considers it necessary to do so
         for the purpose of obtaining evidence of the contravention
         of any applicable requirement of this Act, seize any
         machinery, equipment, substance, record or other thing;

    (e) inspect, examine and take samples of any substance or
        thing on or in the railway infrastructure or railway asset or
        the premises mentioned in subsection (1)(c); and

    (f) photograph, or make sketches of, the railway infrastructure
        or railway asset or the premises mentioned in
        subsection (1)(c) and any substance or thing on or in the
        railway infrastructure, railway asset or premises.

 (4) For the purpose of discharging his or her duties to the bilateral
committee for a cross‑border railway that has opened, the
independent safety auditor for the cross‑border railway has the
same right of access and may exercise in Singapore the same powers
conferred under this section on a rail safety inspector; and any
reference in this section to a rail safety inspector includes a reference
to the independent safety auditor.

 (5) In this section, a requirement of this Act means any of the
following relating to safety of cross‑border railways:

    (a) a requirement of or under a provision of this Act;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            58

(b) a requirement of or under any regulation made under this
     Act;

          (c) a requirement of a notice, direction or order given by the
              LTA under this Act;

(d) a condition of a licence or a code of practice.

Obstructing rail safety inspectors, etc.

 53.—(1) A person who refuses to give access to, or obstructs,
hinders or delays —

       (a) the independent safety auditor; or

       (b) a rail safety inspector,

in the discharge of his or her duties under this Act shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

 (2) However, it is not an offence under subsection (1) for any
person to refuse to comply with any request, demand or order made or
given by the independent safety auditor or a rail safety inspector who
fails to declare his or her office and refuses to produce his or her
identification card on demand being made by that person.

 (3) Any person who —

       (a) without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to comply with
            a requirement under section 51 made by the independent
            safety auditor or a rail safety inspector; or

       (b) knowingly furnishes to the independent safety auditor or a
            rail safety inspector information that is false or misleading
            in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
59  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

    Division 2 — Accidents and suspension of railway

Interpretation of this Division

54. In this Division, unless the context otherwise requires —

    “accident” means an accident associated with the operation of
       any railway infrastructure or a cross‑border train or other
       railway asset where —

    (a) a cross-border train is destroyed or seriously
         damaged as a result;

    (b) an individual dies or suffers serious injury as a
         result; or

    (c) any property is destroyed or seriously damaged as a
        result;

    “passenger” includes an intending passenger;

    “railway security incident” means a threatened act of unlawful
       interference or an act of unlawful interference;

    “serious incident” means an occurrence involving the operation
       of a cross‑border train or other railway asset where —

    (a) the cross‑border train is involved in a near‑accident;
         or

    (b) the occurrence could have affected or affected the
         safety of the operation of the train.

Compulsory reporting of accidents, etc., on cross‑border railway

 55.—(1) This section applies where —

       (a) an accident or a serious incident occurs in Singapore; or

       (b) an accident or a serious incident occurs outside Singapore
            involving a train operated by a licensee holding a
            cross‑border train service licence.

 (2) If a relevant person has knowledge of an accident or a serious
incident mentioned in subsection (1), the relevant person must give
notice of the accident or serious incident to —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            60

(a) the competent authority for transport accidents in
     accordance with the written law in force governing
     transport accidents in Singapore; and

(b) the bilateral committee for that cross‑border railway
     within the prescribed time and in the prescribed manner.

 (3) A relevant person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

 (4) To avoid doubt, nothing in this section affects the operation
of —

(a) the Electricity Act 2001;

(b) the Fire Safety Act 1993; or

          (c) the Workplace Safety and Health Act 2006.

(5) In this section, “relevant person” means —

(a) the licensee having charge of the railway infrastructure or
     railway asset involved, or the master of the cross‑border
     train involved, at the time of the accident or serious
     incident;

(b) where the accident or serious incident occurs on or
     adjacent to a train station of a cross‑border railway in
     Singapore, the owner or operator of the train station; and

          (c) in all other accidents or serious incidents, such persons as
              may be prescribed by the written law in force governing
              transport accidents.

Service suspension order

 56.—(1) Where it appears to the Minister that —

       (a) there is a serious and imminent risk to travel on a
            cross‑border railway because of an accident, a
            malfunction, natural disaster, terrorist act or other
            exceptional reason; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
61  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

    (b) it is appropriate or requisite, to avoid any actual or
         imminent occurrence that endangers or threatens to
         endanger the safety of the public, that an order be made
         under this section,

the Minister may make an order suspending the provision of
cross‑border train services on the cross‑border railway (called in
this section a service suspension order).

 (2) A service suspension order must require the licensee to whom it
relates (according to the circumstances of the case) —

    (a) to close the cross-border railway for the carriage of
         passengers; and

    (b) to do, or not to do, such other things as are specified in the
         order or are of a description so specified.

(3) A service suspension order —

    (a) must take effect at such time, being the earliest practicable
         time, as is determined by or under the order; and

    (b) may be revoked at any time by the Minister.

 (4) In determining whether it is appropriate or requisite that a
service suspension order be made, the Minister must have regard, in
particular, to the views of the bilateral committee and the
corresponding rail authority unless it is not practicable to first
obtain those views.

 (5) A service suspension order under this section will cease to have
effect at the end of such period (not exceeding 30 days) as is
determined by or under the order.

 (6) However, the cessation of a service suspension order having
effect does not prevent a further service suspension order being made
by the Minister if the Minister is satisfied that the circumstances
warrant it.

Reopening railway after service suspension order

 57.—(1) A cross-border railway which has been closed under
section 56 must not be reopened when the service suspension order
has effect, except with the Minister’s approval.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            62

 (2) The Minister may refuse approval to reopen a cross‑border
railway if there is no satisfactory report by a rail safety inspector
about the cross‑border railway.

 (3) A report by a rail safety inspector is unsatisfactory unless it
states that —

(a) the rail safety inspector has inspected the cross‑border
     railway in question, including the railway infrastructure,
     railway assets and all other equipment to be used for or in
     connection with the provision of network services and
     cross‑border train services; and

(b) in the rail safety inspector’s opinion —

          (i) the cross-border railway in question is fit to resume
              receiving trains and to reopen; and

          (ii) the reopening of the railway is unlikely to endanger
               or damage any railway asset or railway
               infrastructure of the cross‑border railway, or
               endanger any passenger to be carried on or person
               lawfully employed or engaged to work on that
               railway.

 (4) In deciding whether to give his or her approval under
subsection (1) to reopen a cross‑border railway, the Minister must
consult the relevant bilateral committee for the railway but is not
bound by the opinion of the bilateral committee.

                      Division 3 — Railway security

Cross-border railway security agency

 58. The LTA is the cross‑border railway security agency for the
purposes of this Act.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

Security directives

 59.—(1) The cross-border railway security agency may, by a
security directive, require any of the following persons to carry out,
within the time delimited by the security directive, such security

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
63        Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                      2020 Ed.

measures as the cross‑border railway security agency may specify in
the security directive:

    (a) any licensee for a cross‑border railway;

    (b) the concessionaire for a cross‑border railway;

    (c) [Deleted by Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

    (d) any person who is not mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) but
         who —

          (i) operates, maintains or improves, or does any other
              act (whether or not at a train station) in respect of any
              railway infrastructure, railway asset, network service
              or cross‑border train service; or

              (ii) for the purposes of any business carried on or service
                   provided by the person, has access to the train station
                   of a cross‑border railway or to an area or place within
                   such a train station public access to which is
                   restricted.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

 (1A) However, subsection (1)(d) does not authorise the giving of a
security directive to any of the following persons:

    (a) a Singapore border protection service;

    (b) any Malaysian preclearance officer;

       (c) any Malaysian border protection service to which a
            Malaysian preclearance officer belongs.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

 (2) The cross-border railway security agency may, at any time, vary
or rescind a security directive given under subsection (1), and that
security directive has effect until it is so varied or rescinded, or
rescinded and replaced by another security directive.

(3) If —

    (a) a security directive is given to a person in subsection (1);

    (b) the security directive is in force; and

    (c) the person fails to comply or do anything required of the
        person by the security directive,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            64

that person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

 (4) Subsection (3) does not apply if the person has a reasonable
excuse, the burden of proof of which lies with the person.

 (5) Despite subsection (1), a security directive need not be in
writing in cases of extreme urgency, in order to respond rapidly —

(a) to any specific railway security incident requiring
     immediate action or additional security measures; or

(b) to a change in the nature of an existing general threat of an
     act of unlawful interference, requiring immediate action or
     additional security measures,

and in such a case, the cross‑border railway security agency may
issue a verbal security directive to any person in subsection (1), which
must be confirmed in writing as soon as practicable.

(6) In this section, “security measure” includes —

(a) any measure, equipment or procedure to carry out
     screening or re‑screening and clearing of —

          (i) any person boarding a train; or

          (ii) any baggage or other thing to be carried on a
               cross‑border train;

(b) passenger check-in and boarding procedures, including
     procedures for dealing with —

          (i) diplomats and other special passengers, their
              diplomatic bags and baggage;

          (ii) passengers with reduced mobility or a medical
               condition;

          (iii) passengers in custody and suspicious behaviour in
                passengers; or

          (iv) anomalies in passenger reconciliation that may arise
               during check‑in or boarding;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
65  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

    (c) any security measures or procedures to be used within a
        train station of a cross‑border railway, including
        measures —

    (i) to control access at the train stations of a
        cross‑border railway and maintain the integrity of
        access control systems;

    (ii) to deter and detect unauthorised access by people,
         aircraft, vehicles or things into an area or place
         within a train station or railway infrastructure of a
         cross‑border railway public access to which is
         restricted;

    (iii) to assess, identify and respond to unknown
          substances;

    (iv) to investigate, secure, and remove unattended or
         suspicious vehicles, baggage and other things; and

    (v) to ensure the security of passwords, keys and key
         lists, electronic access cards and other security
         privileges;

    (d) any measure to deter unauthorised possession of firearms,
         weapons and other prohibited items in a train station of a
         cross‑border railway, any other part of the railway or a
         cross‑border train, including procedures —

    (i) for dealing with surrendered firearms, other weapons
        and prohibited items; and

    (ii) for handling and movement of firearms and other
         weapons;

    (e) any measure or procedure for responding to and
        investigating railway security incidents and threats and
        breaches of railway security, including measures and
        procedures by a concessionaire, a licensee or the master
        of a cross‑border train in Singapore —

    (i) to hold the train in a particular position or within a
        particular area until specified actions are taken or
        until a specified event occurs;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            66

          (ii) to ensure that the train leaves a particular place or a
               particular area; or

               (iii) to ensure that the train arrives and departs at a
                     particular place or within a particular area;

                                                                             [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

          (f) any measure or procedure —

          (i) for reporting railway security incidents or security
              breaches, including occurrences that threaten the
              security of any part of a cross‑border railway or any
              cross‑border train;

          (ii) for evacuation and emergency management in case
               of a railway security incident, security threat or
               breach of security, including a train hijacking, a
               bomb threat or a failure of critical security
               equipment; or

          (iii) for responding to any security directive verbally
                given under subsection (5), including any procedure
                to communicate the directive within a train station;

(g) any measure or procedure to undertake reasonable searches
     of —

          (i) any person boarding a cross-border train;

          (ii) any thing carried on or to be carried on a cross‑border
               train;

          (iii) any cross-border train or class of such train, or any
                train station or class of stations of a cross‑border
                railway, or any railway asset used in providing
                network services or cross‑border train services or
                class of such railway assets, specified in a security
                directive; or

          (iv) any unattended item, substance or vehicle in a train
               station of a cross‑border railway or in a cross‑border
               train;

(h) any measure to seize any item or substance specified in a
     security directive if the person given the security directive

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
67  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

    (or the person’s agent) has reasonable grounds to believe
    that there is no lawful authority or reasonable excuse for
    the item or substance to be carried in a cross‑border train;
    and

    (i) any measure by the master of a cross‑border train in
        Singapore and that has not departed a train station —

    (i) to hold the train in a particular position or within a
        particular area until specified actions are taken or
        until a specified event occurs;

    (ii) to take particular actions, or ensure that particular
         actions are taken, on or in relation to the train;

    (iii) to take particular actions, or ensure that particular
          actions are taken, in relation to a person or thing on,
          or to be carried by the train; or

    (iv) to allow any police officer or any other person
         authorised by the cross‑border railway security
         agency to inspect the train.

 (7) In subsection (1A), “Malaysian border protection service”,
“Malaysian preclearance officer” and “Singapore border protection
service” have the meanings given by section 3(1) of the Cross-Border
Railways (Border Control Co-location) Act 2026.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

Powers of cross-border railway security agency

 60.—(1) For the purposes of ensuring the security of any
cross‑border railway in Singapore, the cross‑border railway
security agency or a police officer authorised by the cross‑border
railway security agency may —

       (a) enter and inspect —

               (i) any part of a cross‑border railway outside of an
                   excluded zone or a cross‑border train;

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

              (ii) any area, building (other than a residence) or vehicle
                   under the control of a person to whom a security

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            68

                directive may be given under section 59(1) (called in
                this section a relevant person); or

                                                                      [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

          (iii) if a relevant person operates from a residence or a
                part of a residence, the residence or the part of the
                residence from which the person operates;

(b) inspect equipment in a place or vehicle which the cross-
     border railway security agency or a police officer may
     enter and inspect under this section, unless prohibited by
     section 36 of the Cross-Border Railways (Border Control
     Co-location) Act 2026;

                                                                    [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

(c) observe the operating procedures of a relevant person with
     a view to railway security;

(d) discuss the procedures of a relevant person after
     observation under paragraph (c) with an employee of
     another relevant person, or with another such person, with
     a view to railway security;

          (e) inspect, photograph or copy a document or record made or
              kept by a relevant person;

(f) operate equipment at a place mentioned in paragraph (a)
     for the purposes of gaining access to a document or record
     made or kept by a relevant person unless prohibited by
     section 36 of the Cross-Border Railways (Border Control
     Co-location) Act 2026;

                                                                    [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

(g) enter and inspect a train at a train station at a cross‑border
     railway;

(h) inspect equipment in the train mentioned in paragraph (g)
     unless prohibited by section 36 of the Cross-Border
     Railways (Border Control Co-location) Act 2026;

                                                                    [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

(i) observe the operating procedures for a cross‑border train
     (whether carried out by the crew or some other person)
     with a view to railway security;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
69  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

    (j) discuss those procedures mentioned in paragraph (i) with a
        person carrying them out or with a relevant person; and

    (k) inspect, photograph or copy a document or record held in
        the train that relates to a passenger or an item of baggage.

 (1A) Despite subsection (1)(a)(i), the cross-border railway security
agency or a police officer authorised by the cross-border railway
security agency may enter and inspect any excluded zone of a cross-
border railway with the express and prior consent of the Government
of Malaysia.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

 (2) The cross-border railway security agency, or a police officer
authorised by the cross‑border railway security agency, may exercise
a power specified in subsection (1) —

    (a) if the power is exercised within the boundaries of a train
         station of a cross‑border railway — at any time and without
         notice;

    (b) at any time and without notice, if the power is exercised
         outside the boundaries of a train station of a cross‑border
         railway and is a power specified —

    (i) in subsection (1)(a)(i) or (ii), (c) or (d);

    (ii) in subsection (1)(e) to the extent that it relates to
         subsection (1)(a) or (d); or

    (iii) in subsection (1)(f) to the extent that it relates to
          subsection (1)(a)(iii); and

    (c) otherwise — after giving the person concerned reasonable
        notice.

 (3) An auxiliary police officer who is authorised in writing by the
cross‑border railway security agency may assist the cross‑border
railway security agency or a police officer authorised by that agency
exercising in Singapore any power under any provision of this
Division.

 (4) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (1A), “excluded zone”,
for a cross-border railway, means the part of the cross-border railway
that —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            70

(a) is demarcated under section 7(1) of the Cross-Border
     Railways (Border Control Co-location) Act 2026 to be
     Malaysia’s CIQ zone in Singapore for that cross-border
     railway; or

(b) is any other part of the Malaysia designated area (as
     defined in the Cross-Border Railways (Border Control Co-
     location) Act 2026) for that cross-border railway and is not
     a departure train platform.

                                                                    [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

Passenger, etc., searches on railway

 61.—(1) Without affecting section 60 but subject to section 36 of
the Cross-Border Railways (Border Control Co-location) Act 2026,
for the purposes of ensuring the security of persons on any
cross‑border railway in Singapore (whether or not passengers), a
railway official may, without giving any reason, ask any individual
in —

       (a) a train station of a cross-border railway; or

       (b) a cross‑border train at a train station mentioned in
            paragraph (a),

to allow the railway official to inspect and search any baggage or
other thing carried by the individual or apparently in the immediate
control of the individual; and that individual must permit that
baggage or thing to be inspected and searched.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

 (2) Without prejudice to subsection (3) but subject to section 36 of
the Cross-Border Railways (Border Control Co-location) Act 2026, a
railway official may require any individual who refuses to permit any
baggage or other thing carried by the individual or apparently in the
immediate control of the individual to be inspected and searched to
leave the train station or train, with that baggage or thing, and that
individual must do so within a reasonable time.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

 (3) Any individual who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
71  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

 (4) In this section, “railway official” means any of the following
individuals who is authorised by the cross‑border railway security
agency in writing to exercise the power to search under this section at
or in relation to any train station specified in that written
authorisation:

    (a) any officer of the LTA;

    (b) a police officer or an auxiliary police officer in uniform;

    (c) any employee of a licensee;

    (d) any security officer (within the meaning of the Private
         Security Industry Act 2007) engaged by a licensee.

Offence of wilfully endangering safety

 62. Any person who wilfully does or omits to do anything in
relation to any cross‑border railway as a result of which the safety of
any individual travelling or being upon the railway is endangered, or
is likely to be so endangered, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

Damage to railway

 63. Any person who wilfully removes, destroys or damages any
part of a cross‑border railway shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $200,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Obstructing cross-border railway security agency, etc.

 64.—(1) A person who refuses to give access to, or obstructs,
hinders or delays —

       (a) the cross-border railway security agency;

       (b) a police officer authorised by the cross‑border railway
            security agency to exercise powers under this Part;

       (c) an auxiliary police officer who is authorised in writing by
            the cross‑border railway security agency to assist the
            cross‑border railway security agency or a police officer
            mentioned in paragraph (b); or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            72

(d) a railway official within the meaning of section 61,

in the discharge of his or her duties under this Act shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

 (2) However, it is not an offence under subsection (1) for any
person to refuse to comply with any request, demand or order made or
given by an out‑of‑uniform police officer or auxiliary police officer
who fails to declare his or her office and refuses to produce his or her
identification card on demand being made by that person.

                                   PART 10

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Administration of Act

 65.—(1) It is the function of the LTA to administer this Act.

 (2) The Minister may give to the LTA directions as to the
performance by the LTA of its functions under this Act, and the
LTA must give effect to those directions.

Service of documents

 66.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
            if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
            address or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
73  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

    (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
         at the individual’s residential address or business address;

    (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number given by the
        individual as the fax number for the service of documents;
        or

    (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
        address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

    (a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer of the
         partnership;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the partnership’s business address;

    (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
        partnership’s business address; or

    (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
         address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

    (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
         body corporate or the unincorporated association, or the
         limited liability partnership’s manager;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the body corporate’s or unincorporated association’s
         registered office or principal office in Singapore;

    (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the body
        corporate’s or unincorporated association’s registered
        office or principal office in Singapore; or

    (d) by sending it by email to the body corporate’s or
         unincorporated association’s last email address.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            74

(5) Service of a document under subsection (1) takes effect —

(a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
     successful transmission is received, on the day of
     transmission;

(b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
     becomes capable of being retrieved by the person; and

          (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
              after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
              undelivered).

 (6) In this section, “document” includes a notice or an order
permitted or required by this Act to be served.

 (7) However, this section does not apply to documents to be served
in proceedings in court.

(8) In this section —

“business address” means —

          (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
               last known place of business in Singapore; or

          (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
               liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
               last known place of business in Singapore;

“last email address” means —

          (a) the last email address given by the addressee
               concerned to the person giving or serving the
               document as the email address for the service of
               documents under this Act; or

          (b) the last email address of the addressee concerned
               known to the person giving or serving the document;

“residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
   place of residence in Singapore.

Certain statements to be conclusive

 67. Where it is stated by the LTA in a notice under section 8, 9, 10,
11 or 12 that the entry or the work described in the notice or required

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
75  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

to be carried out is, in the opinion of the LTA, necessary or required
for the construction, maintenance, operation or improvement of the
railway infrastructure of a cross‑border railway, then such statement
must be accepted by all courts, tribunals and persons as conclusive
evidence of the truth of the fact so stated.

Power to require evidence of identity in certain cases

 68.—(1) Any police officer or employee of the LTA who
reasonably believes that any person has committed an offence
under this Act may require the person to furnish evidence of his or her
identity, and that person must then furnish such evidence of his or her
identity as may be required by such police officer or employee of the
LTA.

 (2) Any person who refuses to furnish any information required of
him or her by any police officer or any employee of the LTA under
subsection (1) or wilfully mis‑states such information shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$500.

Powers of arrest

 69.—(1) A police officer, or any employee of the LTA generally or
specially authorised in writing by the Chief Executive of the LTA,
may arrest without warrant any person found committing or whom
the police officer or authorised employee of the LTA has reason to
believe has committed an offence punishable under this Act.

 (2) No person arrested under subsection (1) is to be detained longer
than is necessary for bringing the person before a court unless the
order of court for the person’s continued detention is obtained.

Jurisdiction of courts

 70. Despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, a District Court or a
Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act
and has power to impose the full punishment for any such offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.   Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                           76

Offences by corporations

 71.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

(a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
     that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
     apparent authority; and

(b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

(a) who is —

          (i) an officer of the corporation, or a member of a
              corporation whose affairs are managed by its
              members; or

          (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
               corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
               of the corporation in relation to the commission of
               the offence; and

(b) who —

          (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
              effect the commission of the offence;

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the corporation; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
77  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof as that corporation would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section also does not affect the application
of —

    (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

    (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
         regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) does not affect the liability of the
corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether or not
the corporation is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

    “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
       meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
       Act 2005;

    “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
       partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
       officer of the corporation, and includes —

    (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

    (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
         members, any of those members as if the member
         were a director of the corporation;

    “state of mind” of a person includes —

    (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
         of the person; and

    (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
         or purpose.

Offences by unincorporated association or partnership

 72.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.   Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                           78

(a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
     the partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of
     his or her actual or apparent authority; and

(b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

(a) who is —

          (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
              member of its governing body;

          (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

          (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                position to influence the conduct of that
                unincorporated association or partnership in
                relation to the commission of the offence; and

(b) who —

          (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
              effect the commission of the offence;

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the unincorporated
               association or partnership; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the unincorporated association or
                partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as that unincorporated association
or partnership, and shall be liable on conviction to be punished
accordingly.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
79  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section also does not affect the application
of —

    (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

    (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
         regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) does not affect the liability of an
unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under this
Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

    “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
       a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
       member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
       and includes —

    (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
         president, secretary or member of a committee of the
         unincorporated association; and

    (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

    “state of mind” of a person includes —

    (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
         of the person; and

    (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
         or purpose.

Composition of offences

 73.—(1) The Chief Executive, or any officer of the LTA authorised
by the Chief Executive for the purpose of this section, may compound

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.     Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                         80

any offence under this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable
offence by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the
following:

(a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
     prescribed for the offence;

(b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

Exemption

 74. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person
or class of persons from all or any provisions of Part 9, either
generally or in a particular case and subject to such conditions as the
Minister considers fit.

Regulations

 75.—(1) The Minister may make regulations necessary or
convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this
Act.

 (2) In particular, the Minister may make regulations for any of the
following:

       (a) regulating the management of railway assets of a
            cross‑border railway and the provision of network
            services and cross‑border train services;

       (b) providing for the safe maintenance and use of railway
            infrastructure and railway assets of a cross‑border railway;

       (c) prohibiting or regulating —

               (i) advertising on railway infrastructure or railway
                   assets of a cross‑border railway;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
81  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

    (ii) the custody and disposal of property found on a
         cross‑border train or a train station of a cross‑border
         railway; and

    (iii) any activity which may damage the railway
          infrastructure or railway assets of a cross‑border
          railway, or may endanger passengers carried or to be
          carried, or persons employed or engaged to work, on
          the cross‑border railway;

    (d) providing for the safe carriage of passengers on the
         cross‑border railway or the safety of persons employed
         or engaged to work on the cross‑border railway;

    (e) prescribing the requirements relating to —

    (i) the management and control of passengers
        (including persons in custody) on board a
        cross‑border train;

    (ii) the security features on a train used or to be used on a
         cross‑border railway;

    (iii) pre-departure checks of train facilities and other
          parts of a cross‑border train;

    (iv) procedures to be used and measures to be taken in
         relation to baggage that is loaded, or is intended to be
         loaded, onto a train used or to be used on a
         cross‑border railway;

    (v) unattended cross‑border trains and other railway
         assets of a cross‑border railway; or

    (vi) such other matters for the purposes of safeguarding a
         cross‑border railway against acts of unlawful
         interference;

    (f) prescribing the requirements relating to the control of
        access to different parts of the railway infrastructure and
        railway assets of a cross‑border railway or other facility
        related to the provision of network services for or a
        cross‑border train service on such a railway, including —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            82

          (i) conditions of entry, the issue and use of security
              passes and other identification systems; and

          (ii) the screening of people, vehicles, baggage or goods
               (other than cargo) for entry to different parts of the
               railway infrastructure or railway assets of a
               cross‑border railway, or such other related facilities;

(g) prescribing the requirements relating to —

          (i) the provision of lighting, fencing and storage
              facilities in the different parts of the railway
              infrastructure and railway assets of a cross‑border
              railway, or such other related facilities; and

          (ii) the approval of building works within, or adjacent to,
               the different parts of the railway infrastructure or
               railway assets of a cross‑border railway, or such
               other related facilities;

(h) prescribing the powers and duties of the independent safety
     auditor and rail safety inspectors;

          (i) prescribing the requirements for or in connection with the
              giving of security directives under section 59;

          (j) prohibiting or regulating the carriage of articles, materials
              or animals on a cross‑border railway;

          (k) prescribing the fees in respect of the grant or renewal of
              any licence, and the doing of anything by the LTA under
              this Act;

          (l) regulating the work and conduct of the employees of
              licensees.

(3) Regulations made under this section may —

(a) provide that any contravention of any provision of the
     regulations shall be an offence punishable with a fine not
     exceeding $5,000; and

(b) provide for such transitional, saving and other
     consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions as
     are necessary or expedient.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
83  Cross-Border Railways Act 2018                            2020 Ed.

 (4) All regulations made under this section are to be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Interface with other laws

 76.—(1) This Act does not apply to any railway that is the subject
of regulation under the following written laws:

       (a) the Railways Act 1905;

       (b) the Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995.

 (2) Nothing in this Act affects any power of the LTA to construct
and maintain any street, road structure or road related facility under
the Street Works Act 1995.

                                    PART 11
                  AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS
 77. [Repealed by Act 3 of 2021 wef 01/07/2025]

Amendments to Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act
 78. The Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act (Cap. 158A,

1996 Revised Edition) is amended —
       (a) [Omitted as having had effect]
       (b) [Omitted as having had effect]
       (c) by inserting, immediately after paragraph (l) of
            section 6(1), the following paragraph:
                       “(la) to approve and regulate the operation of the
                               railway in accordance with this Act and the
                               Cross‑Border Railways Act 2018;”.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
      CROSS-BORDER RAILWAYS ACT 2018

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 21 of 2018 — Cross-Border Railways Act 2018

Bill                     : 43/2017

First Reading            : 3 October 2017

Second Reading           : 6 November 2018

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 13 of 2018

Third Reading            : 19 March 2018

Commencement             : 14 September 2020 (except
                               sections 25 and 29, Parts 6 to 9 and
                               sections 68 to 72, 77 and 78(1)(c)
                               and (d))

2. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
   (Amendments made by section 467 of the above Act)

Bill                     : 32/2018

First Reading            : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement             : 15 September 2020 (section 467(a)
                               to (g))

3. 2020 Revised Edition — Cross-Border Railways Act 2018

Operation                : 31 December 2021

4. Act 3 of 2021 — Guns, Explosives and Weapons Control Act 2021

Bill                     : 44/2020

First Reading            : 3 November 2020

Second and Third Readings : 5 January 2021

Commencement             : 1 July 2025

5. Act 21 of 2018 — Cross-Border Railways Act 2018

Bill                     : 43/2017

First Reading            : 3 October 2017

Second Reading           : 6 November 2018

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                         ii

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 13 of 2018

Third Reading            : 19 March 2018

Commencement             : 29 September 2026

6. Act 16 of 2026 — Cross-Border Railways (Border Control Co-location)
                           Act 2026

Bill                     : 10/2026

First Reading            : 7 April 2026

Second and Third Readings : 5 May 2026

Commencement             : 30 September 2026

7. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018

Bill                     : 32/2018

First Reading            : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement             : 30 September 2026

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          COMPARATIVE TABLE
CROSS-BORDER RAILWAYS ACT 2018

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.               Act 21 of 2018
1—(1) and (2)
78                              1
[Omitted as having had effect]  78—(1)
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]     (2)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (3)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (4)
                                79
                                80

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
