THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
           LAND TRANSPORT AUTHORITY OF
                     SINGAPORE ACT 1995

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                                                          2020 Ed.

Land Transport Authority of
     Singapore Act 1995

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

               ESTABLISHMENT, INCORPORATION AND
                     CONSTITUTION OF AUTHORITY

3. Establishment and incorporation of Land Transport Authority of
       Singapore

4. Common seal
5. Constitution of Authority

                                       PART 3

       FUNCTIONS, DUTIES AND POWERS OF AUTHORITY

6. Functions and duties of Authority
7. Powers of Authority
7A. Directions by Minister
8. Appointment of committees and delegation of powers

                                        PART 4

                     PROVISIONS RELATING TO STAFF

 9. Chief Executive, officers and employees, etc.
10. Protection from personal liability
11. Outsourced enforcement officers
11A. Powers of outsourced enforcement officers
11B. Impersonation as outsourced enforcement officers

                                          1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        2

          PART 5

          FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Section   Land Transport Revenue Account
          Application of revenue
   12.    Railway Sinking Fund
   13.    Bus Service Enhancement Fund
   13A.   Rail Infrastructure Fund
   13B.   Purposes of Rail Infrastructure Fund
   13C.   Funds for construction, etc., projects
   13D.   Issue of shares, etc.
   14.    Operating expenses
   14A.   Bank accounts and application of revenue
   15.    Power of investment
   16.    Financial year
   17.
   18.

          PART 6

          RIGHTS TO COMPENSATION, CLAIMS PROCEDURE
                  AND ASSESSMENT OF COMPENSATION

19.       No remedy except under this Act
20.       Compensation
21.       Claims against persons other than Authority
22.       Claims out of time
22A.      Disqualification as to certain compensation
23.       Claims procedure
24.       Claims by minor, etc.
25.       Settlement after reference to Compensation Board

                                        PART 7

           ASSESSMENT AND AWARD OF COMPENSATION

26. Establishment of Compensation Board
27. Compensation Board to hear and determine claims
28. Power of Compensation Board to examine witness on oath, etc.
29. Review of awards of Compensation Board
30. Power of Compensation Board to state special case for decision

         of General Division of High Court
31. General Division of High Court may call for proceedings of

         Compensation Board

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
         Land Transport Authority of

3        Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

         PART 8

         TRANSFER OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES
                     AND EMPLOYEES

Section  Transfer to Authority of property, assets and liabilities of
   32.   Government
         Transfer of employees
   33.   Pension rights, etc., of Government employees to be preserved
   34.   No benefits in respect of abolition or reorganisation of office
   35.   Existing contracts
   36.   Continuation and completion of disciplinary proceedings
   37.   Misconduct or neglect of duty by employee before transfer
   38.

                                           PART 9

                                         GENERAL

   39. Powers of enforcement
   40. Proceedings conducted by officers of Authority
   41. Preservation of secrecy
   42. Authority’s symbol or representation
   43. Electronic service system
   43A. Service of documents
   44. Rules

            First Schedule — Constitution and proceedings of Authority
            Second Schedule — Revenue of Land Transport Revenue

                                      Account
            Third Schedule — [Repealed]
            Fourth Schedule — Compensation
            Fifth Schedule — Specified Acts

An Act to establish and incorporate the Land Transport Authority of
  Singapore, to provide for its functions and powers, and for matters
  connected therewith.

                                                          [1 September 1995]

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
             Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.     Singapore Act 1995                                     4

             PART 1

             PRELIMINARY

Short title

1. This Act is the Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “accoutrement” includes —

              (a) a uniform; and

              (b) surveillance equipment capable of being worn on the
                   body for the purpose of recording a view of, or
                   recording a conversation between, the wearer and
                   another individual;

      “Authority” means the Land Transport Authority of Singapore
         established under section 3;

      “bus service” means a service for the carriage of passengers for a
         fare or other consideration by one or more buses operating on
         pre‑determined timetables and routes;

      “bus service licence” has the meaning given by the Bus Services
         Industry Act 2015;

      “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Authority and
         includes any acting Chairperson of the Authority;

      “Chief Executive” means the Chief Executive of the Authority,
         and includes any individual acting in that capacity;

      “claim” means a claim for compensation under section 20;

      “claimant” means a person who has made a claim for
         compensation;

      “Compensation Board” means the Compensation Board
         established under section 26;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
   Land Transport Authority of

5  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

   “construction”, in relation to a railway or road, includes —

   (a) the reconstruction or realignment of the railway or
        road;

   (b) permanently improving the railway or road or
        otherwise bringing it to a higher standard; and

   (c) any associated investigative and engineering studies,

   but does not include the planning, maintenance and
   management of the railway or road;

   “Deputy Chairperson” means the Deputy Chairperson of the
      Authority;

   “Land Transport Revenue Account” or “Account” means the
      Land Transport Revenue Account established under
      section 12;

   “land transport system” means the infrastructure facilitating
      transport on land by the railway or road;

   “maintenance”, in relation to a railway or road, includes the
      execution of all works of any description which are necessary
      to keep the railway or road in the state of utility in which it
      was on the completion of its construction;

   “member” means a member of the Authority;

   “outsourced enforcement officer” means an individual who is
      appointed under section 11 as an outsourced enforcement
      officer;

   “president” means the president of the Compensation Board
      appointed under section 26;

   “Rail Infrastructure Fund” means the fund of that name
      established under section 13C;

   “railway” has the meaning given by the Rapid Transit Systems
      Act 1995 or the Cross‑Border Railways Act 2018, as the case
      may be;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.           Singapore Act 1995                               6

“road” includes —

          (a) any street, bridge, underpass, tunnel square, footway
               or passage, whether a thoroughfare or not, over which
               the public has a right of way;

          (b) any street, footway or passage, open court or open
               alley, used or intended to be used as a means of access
               to 2 or more holdings, whether the public has a right
               of way over it or not; and

          (c) all channels, sewers, drains, tunnels, ditches and
              reserves at the side of any road.

                                       [17/2012; 30/2015; 5/2018; 21/2018; 38/2018; 49/2018]

                                    PART 2

            ESTABLISHMENT, INCORPORATION AND
                  CONSTITUTION OF AUTHORITY

Establishment and incorporation of Land Transport Authority
of Singapore

 3. A body called the Land Transport Authority of Singapore is
established, which is a body corporate with perpetual succession and
a common seal and is by that name capable of —

       (a) suing and being sued;

       (b) acquiring, owning, holding and developing or disposing of
            property, both movable and immovable; and

       (c) doing and suffering any other acts or things that bodies
            corporate may lawfully do and suffer.

Common seal

 4.—(1) All deeds and other documents requiring the seal of the
Authority must be sealed with the common seal of the Authority and
any instruments to which the common seal is affixed must be
signed —

       (a) by any 2 members generally or specially authorised by the
            Authority for the purpose; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
   Land Transport Authority of

7  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

   (b) by one member and the Chief Executive.

 (2) All courts, judges and persons acting judicially are to take
judicial notice of the common seal of the Authority affixed to any
document and presume that it was duly affixed.

Constitution of Authority

 5.—(1) The Authority consists of —

       (a) a Chairperson; and

       (b) 2 or more other members as the Minister may from time to
            time determine.

                                                                                                           [49/2018]

 (2) The First Schedule has effect with respect to the Authority, its
members and proceedings.

                                    PART 3

    FUNCTIONS, DUTIES AND POWERS OF AUTHORITY

Functions and duties of Authority

 6.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, it is the function and
duty of the Authority —

       (a) to plan, design, construct, manage and maintain roads in
            Singapore in accordance with this Act and the Street Works
            Act 1995;

       (b) to plan, design, construct, maintain and improve pedestrian
            walkways, bus stops or shelters, bus interchanges or
            terminals, bus depots, bus parks, taxi stands, bicycle
            parking and other commuter facilities in accordance with
            this Act, the Street Works Act 1995 and any other written
            law;

       (c) to maintain, operate and improve road traffic signs or
            signals, traffic control equipment or lighting equipment
            associated with a road and other road traffic facilities for
            the purposes of traffic management and control;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        8

(d) to provide parking places for motor vehicles, to license and
     regulate the use of parking places and to administer the
     Parking Places Act 1974;

          (e) to develop and implement road traffic management
              strategies and practices;

(ea) to regulate the import of small motorised vehicles, and the
      keeping of unsafe devices, under the Small Motorised
      Vehicles (Safety) Act 2020;

                                                                        [Act 5 of 2026 wef 01/06/2026]

  (f) to provide registration and licensing procedures and
      systems for road transport in accordance with the Road
      Traffic Act 1961, and to perform any other functions that
      may be conferred on the Authority by that Act,
      including —

          (i) the regulation of the parking of vehicles on roads and
              the taking of enforcement action in relation thereto;

          (ii) the regulation, prohibition or restriction of the use of
               roads on account of any construction or maintenance
               works being carried on the roads, or any other
               considerations of safety; and

          (iii) the determination and prescription of vehicular speed
                limits on roads;

(fa) to regulate the provision of shared mobility services under
     the Shared Mobility Enterprises (Control and Licensing)
     Act 2020;

(fb) to regulate the supply of electric vehicle chargers, the
     provision of electric vehicle charging services and the
     operation of charging stations under the Electric Vehicles
     Charging Act 2022;

                                                                      [Act 43 of 2022 wef 08/12/2023]

(g) without affecting the Public Transport Council
     Act 1987 —

          (i) to carry out operational planning for bus services to
              meet the needs and expectation of the public,
              including coordinating the routes and scheduling of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
   Land Transport Authority of

9  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

   bus services provided by holders of bus service
   licences;

   (ii) to provide financial assistance to holders of bus
        service licences with the object of improving and
        expanding the range and reliability of the bus
        services provided by all or any of them;

   (iii) to procure for or make available to any holder of a
         bus service licence such buses as are necessary for
         improving and expanding the range and reliability of
         the bus services provided by all or any of them;

   (iv) to regulate the carriage of passengers on any road for
        hire or reward in accordance with the Road Traffic
        Act 1961; and

   (v) to regulate the provision of point‑to‑point passenger
        transport services under the Point‑to‑Point Passenger
        Transport Industry Act 2019;

   (ga) to operate any bus service or any bus depot or bus
         interchange, if there is for any reason no licensee under the
         Bus Services Industry Act 2015 to operate that bus service,
         bus depot or bus interchange (as the case may be), having
         regard to the reasonable requirements of the land transport
         system in Singapore or the relevant part thereof;

   (h) to regulate the construction of motor vehicles and the
        conditions under which they may be used on roads in
        Singapore;

   (i) to determine load limits for any road, bridge or culvert and
       to establish guidelines or requirements for the issue of
       vehicle mass and dimension permits;

   (ia) to promote the use, and promote and regulate the safe use,
        of electric vehicles and vehicles that use clean energy,
        clean technology or efficient pollution control technology,
        in Singapore;

                                                                          [Act 5 of 2026 wef 27/02/2026]

   (ib) to undertake or facilitate the development and maintenance
        in Singapore of accessible charging points in public and

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        10

          common areas and other ancillary facilities that allow for
          the safe transfer of electricity to an electric vehicle;

(ic) to set standards for devices and equipment used in the
     charging of an electric vehicle in order to protect the
     public;

(id) to cooperate and collaborate with the Energy Market
     Authority of Singapore in the discharge of its functions
     under the Electricity Act 2001 or other written law insofar
     as those functions relate to electrical installations for the
     charging of an electric vehicle;

          (j) to promote better understanding of land transport policies
              and programmes, whether solely or jointly with other
              authorities or organisations;

          (k) to plan, design, construct, manage, operate and maintain
              the railway in accordance with this Act and the Rapid
              Transit Systems Act 1995;

(ka) to plan, design, construct, manage, operate and maintain
      the railway in accordance with this Act and the
      Cross‑Border Railways Act 2018;

          (l) to approve and regulate the operation of the railway in
              accordance with this Act and the Rapid Transit Systems
              Act 1995;

(m) to coordinate land transport services, including developing
     or promoting the development of integrated ticket systems;

(n) to conduct, or engage persons to conduct, research and
     demonstration projects in respect of land transport and
     associated matters, and to encourage, advise and otherwise
     assist (whether financially or otherwise) any such research
     or project;

(na) to advise on, or to conduct, promote or facilitate, training
      and education relating to public transport;

(o) to advise the Government in respect of the land transport
     system in Singapore, including, but not limited to —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

11  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

    (i) its adequacy to meet national and community needs
        in an efficient, viable and safe manner;

    (ii) changes considered advisable in the provision of
         finance for the control, construction, management or
         maintenance of the land transport system; and

    (iii) changes considered advisable in the levying and
          collection of land transport taxation, including the
          granting or withdrawing of exemptions or partial
          exemptions from any form of land transport taxation;

    (p) to maintain contact with land transport organisations in
         Singapore and abroad, in order to obtain, collect and
         exchange information relating to land transport
         developments in Singapore and abroad, and to make
         such information available to bodies and persons with an
         interest in land transport in Singapore;

    (q) to represent Singapore internationally in respect of matters
         relating to land transport;

    (r) to act as agent of the Government and provide service in
        administering, assessing, collecting and enforcing
        payment of —

    (i) the special tax imposed under section 17 of the
        Customs Act 1960;

    (ii) the surcharge imposed under the Parking Places
         (Surcharge) Act 1975;

    (iii) the deficiency charge imposed under the Parking
          Places Act 1974 for the waiver of requirements under
          that Act in relation to private parking places;

    (iv) the proposed sums of successful bids for particular
         index marks and registration numbers for any type or
         category of vehicle;

    (v) all composition sums under the Small Motorised
         Vehicles (Safety) Act 2020;

    (vi) all taxes, fees and charges collected by the Registrar
         of Vehicles under the Road Traffic Act 1961 or any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        12

          rules made under that Act which are not specified in
          the Second Schedule;

               (vii) all composition sums and financial penalties under
                     the Point‑to‑Point Passenger Transport Industry
                     Act 2019;

                                                                              [Act 43 of 2022 wef 08/12/2023]

              (viii) all composition sums and financial penalties under
                     the Shared Mobility Enterprises (Control and
                     Licensing) Act 2020; and

                                                                              [Act 43 of 2022 wef 08/12/2023]

               (ix) all composition sums and financial penalties under
                     the Electric Vehicles Charging Act 2022;

                                                                              [Act 43 of 2022 wef 08/12/2023]

          (s) to act as agent of the Government in the vesting of land
              under the Street Works Act 1995;

          (t) to collect, compile and analyse information of a statistical
              nature relating to land transport or such other subject
              matter necessary for the performance of the functions of
              the Authority, and to publish and disseminate the results of
              any such compilation and analysis or abstracts of those
              results;

(u) to establish and maintain a Land Transport Revenue
     Account in accordance with the provisions of this Act;

(ua) to manage and administer the Rail Infrastructure Fund in
      accordance with this Act subject to the directions of the
      Minister;

          (v) to undertake any other activity considered necessary or
              desirable to achieve a safe and efficient land transport
              system that maximises national economic and social
              benefits; and

       (w) to perform any other functions that are conferred on the
            Authority by any other written law.

                                                 [24/2010; 17/2012; 17/2015; 30/2015; 21/2018; 24/2018;
                                                               49/2018; 20/2019; 8/2020; 25/2020; 13/2021]

 (2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, it is a function of the
Authority to develop and manage, or participate in the development

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

13  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

and management of, land transport systems, whether in Singapore or
elsewhere.

                                                                                                            [11/2007]

 (3) In performing the functions and discharging the duties imposed
on it by subsections (1) and (2), the Authority must have regard to the
promotion of energy efficiency within the land transport sector,
environmental protection and the sustainable development of land
transport.

                                                                                                            [11/2012]

 (4) Nothing in this section is to be construed as imposing on the
Authority, directly or indirectly, any form of duty or liability
enforceable by proceedings before any court to which it would not
otherwise be subject.

                                                                                                           [17/2012]

 (5) In addition to the functions and duties imposed by this section,
the Authority may undertake any other functions that the Minister
may assign to the Authority by notification in the Gazette, and in so
doing the Authority is deemed to be fulfilling the purposes of this Act
and the provisions of this Act apply to the Authority in respect of
those functions.

                                                                                                           [49/2018]

 (6) To avoid doubt, any reference in this section to an electric
vehicle is a reference to a vehicle that is —

    (a) propelled wholly or partly by electricity (whether or not
         designed or adapted to be capable, in at least some
         circumstances or situations, of safely driving itself); and

    (b) equipped with an electric rechargeable energy storage
         system which can be recharged externally.

                                                                                                     [13/2021]

Powers of Authority

 7.—(1) Subject to this Act, the Authority may carry on any
activities that appear to the Authority to be advantageous, necessary
or convenient for it to carry on for or in connection with the discharge
of its functions and duties under this Act or any other written law, and
in particular may exercise any of the following powers:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        14

(a) to grant licences or permits, or to register persons, for land
     transport purposes and to supervise and enforce
     compliance with such licences, permits or registration;

(b) to open and break up any road and to take possession of
     and use any road or portion of any road;

          (c) to utilise all property of the Authority, movable and
              immovable, in such manner as the Authority may think
              expedient, including the raising of loans by mortgaging
              such property;

(d) to lease or let, with or without taking a premium, any
     property vested in or acquired by it or to grant easements,
     rights of way, temporary licences or other rights or
     privileges over, under, through or in respect of any land
     or buildings belonging to or vested in the Authority upon
     any terms and conditions that the Authority thinks fit;

          (e) to subscribe for or acquire any securities, stocks and shares
              of an incorporated company or other body corporate, to
              procure its admission to membership of an incorporated
              company limited by guarantee and not having a share
              capital or to acquire an undertaking or part of an
              undertaking;

          (f) to form or participate in the formation of any company or
              corporation, or enter into any joint venture or partnership,
              whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

(fa) to participate in any overseas venture or development
     which the Authority has the expertise to engage in or
     undertake;

(fb) to establish and maintain offices, whether in Singapore or
     elsewhere;

(fba) to provide financial incentives, support, grant, aid or
       assistance to any person;

                                                                         [Act 5 of 2026 wef 27/02/2026]

 (fc) to grant loans, and to guarantee the repayment of any loan
       granted, to any company or corporation —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

15  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

    (i) of which the Authority, or any subsidiary of the
        Authority, is a member; or

    (ii) any shares of which are held or beneficially owned,
         directly or indirectly, by the Authority or any
         subsidiary of the Authority;

    (fd) to provide financial assistance by way of grant, loan or
         guarantee to any holder of a bus service licence;

    (fe) to establish or expand facilities or to assist in the
         maintenance of facilities (whether by itself or with the
         cooperation of other persons or bodies as the Authority
         thinks fit), including but not limited to providing grants, for
         the purpose of training and education relating to public
         transport;

    (g) to enter into any contract for the supply of goods, services
         or materials or for the execution of works or any other
         contract that may be necessary for the discharge of its
         duties and functions under this Act;

    (h) to engage alone or in conjunction with other corporations
         in the production, manufacture or sale of equipment,
         whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

    (i) to provide technical advice or assistance, including
        training facilities and consultancy services, to any person
        as respects any matter in which the Authority has skill or
        experience;

    (j) to impose fees or charges for services rendered by the
        Authority;

    (k) to grant loans to officers or employees of the Authority for
        any purposes specifically approved by the Authority that
        are likely to increase the efficiency of officers or
        employees;

    (l) to provide recreational facilities and promote recreational
        activities for, and activities conducive to, the welfare of
        officers or employees of the Authority and members of
        their families;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        16

(la) to cooperate with the Transport Safety Investigation
     Bureau of Singapore in relation to investigations under
     the Transport Safety Investigations Act 2018;

                                                                      [Act 36 of 2018 wef 01/01/2024]

(m) to provide training for employees of the Authority and to
     award scholarships or otherwise pay for such training;

(n) to receive donations and contributions from any source and
     raise funds by all lawful means; and

       (o) to do anything incidental to any of its powers.

                                                                        [11/2007; 17/2012; 17/2015; 30/2015]

 (2) This section does not limit any power of the Authority conferred
by or under any other written law.

 (3) The Authority must provide the Minister with information with
respect to its property and activities in the manner and at the times
that the Minister may require.

 (4) In subsection (1)(fc), “subsidiary” has the meaning given by
section 5 of the Companies Act 1967.

                                                                                    [11/2007; 17/2012; 30/2015]

Directions by Minister

 7A. The Minister may give to the Authority any direction under
section 5 of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Appointment of committees and delegation of powers

 8.—(1) The Authority may appoint from among its own members
or other persons who are not members any number of committees that
it thinks fit consisting of members or other persons or members and
other persons for purposes which, in the opinion of the Authority,
would be better regulated and managed by means of those
committees.

 (2) The Authority may, subject to any conditions or restrictions that
it thinks fit, delegate to any such committee or to any member, officer
or employee of the Authority, any of the functions or powers of the
Authority under this Act or any other written law.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

17  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

    PART 4

    PROVISIONS RELATING TO STAFF

Chief Executive, officers and employees, etc.

 9.—(1) There must be a Chief Executive of the Authority, whose
appointment, removal, discipline and promotion must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Authority may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint an individual to act temporarily as the Chief
Executive during any period, or during all periods, when the Chief
Executive —

    (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (3) The Authority may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint and employ, on any terms and conditions that it
may determine, any other officers, employees, consultants and agents
necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Protection from personal liability

 10. No liability shall lie personally against any member, officer or
employee of the Authority or any other person acting under the
direction of the Authority for anything done or intended to be done in
good faith and with reasonable care in the execution or purported
execution of this Act.

                                                                                                           [17/2015]

Outsourced enforcement officers
 11.—(1) The Authority may in writing appoint an individual

who —
       (a) is at least 18 years of age;
       (b) is not an employee of the Authority;
       (c) is not a public officer; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        18

(d) has suitable qualifications or experience,

to be an outsourced enforcement officer to assist the Authority in the
administration of any land transport legislation in any particular area
in Singapore.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (2) The Authority may, for any reason that appears to the Authority
to be sufficient, at any time revoke an individual’s appointment as an
outsourced enforcement officer.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (3) The Authority must issue to each outsourced enforcement
officer an identification card, which must be carried at all times by the
outsourced enforcement officer when exercising powers under any
land transport legislation.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (4) An outsourced enforcement officer whose appointment as such
ceases must return to the Authority any identification card issued to
him or her under subsection (3).

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (5) An outsourced enforcement officer must be issued with such
accoutrement or equipment, or such description of accoutrement or
equipment, as the Chief Executive may determine necessary for the
effectual discharge of the duties of an outsourced enforcement
officer.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (6) An outsourced enforcement officer is not an employee of the
Authority.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (7) An individual who is appointed as an outsourced enforcement
officer under subsection (1) does not, by virtue only of the
appointment, become an agent of the Authority.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (8) In this section and section 11A, “land transport legislation”
means any written law administered by the Authority which is
specified in the Fifth Schedule.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

19  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

Powers of outsourced enforcement officers

 11A.—(1) The Chief Executive must issue to each outsourced
enforcement officer a written authorisation specifying such of the
powers expressly specified in any land transport legislation as
exercisable by an outsourced enforcement officer, as what the
outsourced enforcement officer may exercise, and no other powers.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (2) The authorisation of the Chief Executive under subsection (1)
issued to an outsourced enforcement officer may also do all or any of
the following:

    (a) limit the powers mentioned in subsection (1) that the
         outsourced enforcement officer may exercise;

    (b) limit when, and where in Singapore, the outsourced
         enforcement officer may exercise those powers or any of
         them;

       (c) limit the circumstances in which the outsourced
            enforcement officer may exercise those powers or any of
            them.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (3) To avoid doubt, the Chief Executive cannot authorise under this
section an outsourced enforcement officer to arrest any individual.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (4) The powers that an outsourced enforcement officer may be
authorised under this section to exercise may be exercised only —

    (a) when in uniform, and upon production of the identification
         card issued under section 11(3);

    (b) to the extent authorised by the Chief Executive under
         subsection (1); and

       (c) as directed (generally or specially) by an officer or
            employee of the Authority.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (5) An outsourced enforcement officer who is authorised under
subsection (1) to exercise any power expressly specified in any land
transport legislation as exercisable by an outsourced enforcement

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        20

officer is deemed to be a public servant for the purposes of the Penal
Code 1871 when exercising that power.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (6) Without limiting subsection (5), where any law or written law
protects an officer or employee of the Authority from liability for the
officer’s or employee’s acts or omissions, that law or written law is
taken to operate as if those acts or omissions included an outsourced
enforcement officer’s acts or omissions when acting in the course of
his or her duty as an outsourced enforcement officer in accordance —

(a) with the authorisation of the Chief Executive under
     subsection (1); and

(b) with subsection (4).

                                                                    [38/2018]

 (7) To avoid doubt, an outsourced enforcement officer does not
cease to be acting on the direction of an officer or employee of the
Authority by reason only that the officer or employee of the Authority
is not present at all times.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

Impersonation as outsourced enforcement officers

 11B.—(1) An individual who represents himself or herself, by word
or conduct to be an outsourced enforcement officer when he or she is
not an outsourced enforcement officer shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,500 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (2) An outsourced enforcement officer who uses —

       (a) any accoutrement or equipment issued under section 11; or

       (b) any identification card issued under section 11(3),

otherwise than in the course of, or for the purpose of, exercising the
functions of an outsourced enforcement officer, shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,500 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

21  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

 (3) However, it is a defence in any proceedings for an offence under
subsection (1) or (2) where the accused proves, on a balance of
probabilities, that the accused used or possessed the accoutrement,
equipment or identification card issued under section 11 for the
purposes of a public entertainment provided in compliance with the
Public Entertainments Act 1958.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

                                    PART 5

                        FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Land Transport Revenue Account

 12.—(1) The Authority must establish, maintain and operate a Land
Transport Revenue Account into which must be paid, except where
expressly provided otherwise in section 13A or 13B —

       (a) all taxes, fees and charges specified in the
            Second Schedule;

       (b) all fees received by the Authority for services rendered by
            the Authority to any person, including any collection
            agency fee;

       (c) all moneys derived from the disposal, lease, or hire of, or
            any other dealing with, any property vested in or acquired
            by the Authority;

       (d) all income derived from the investment of moneys in the
            Account, including any gains made on the sale of any
            investment of moneys of the Account, and interest or gains
            thereon;

       (e) the balance of the fees, rental or other revenue lawfully
            received by the Authority —

               (i) for or in connection with the hiring or leasing of
                   buses, bus stops, bus interchanges or terminals or bus
                   parks from the Authority; or

              (ii) for or in connection with the advertising on such
                   buses or at such bus stops, bus interchanges or
                   terminals or bus parks,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        22

          (e) after deducting such proportion of those fees, rental or
              other revenue as the Minister has approved for the Bus
              Service Enhancement Fund under section 13B(1)(h);

          (f) all moneys borrowed by the Authority under this Act; and

       (g) all other moneys lawfully received by the Authority for the
            purposes of the Authority.

                                                                                                           [17/2012]

 (2) The Land Transport Revenue Account must be managed and
administered by the Authority, subject to the directions of the
Minister.

Application of revenue

 13.—(1) The revenue of the Land Transport Revenue Account for
any financial year must be applied in defraying the following charges:

       (a) the remuneration, fees and allowances of the members of
            the Authority and the remuneration of the auditor of the
            Authority;

       (b) the salaries, fees, remuneration, pensions, superannuation
            allowances and gratuities of the officers, agents,
            employees, advisers and former employees of the
            Authority;

       (c) working and establishment expenses and expenditure on,
            or provision for, the maintenance of any of the property of
            the Authority, and the discharge of the functions of the
            Authority properly chargeable to revenue account;

       (d) expenses incurred or incidental to the investment or
            management of moneys in the Account;

       (e) interest on any loan raised by the Authority;

        (f) sums required to be paid to the Government towards
            repayment of any loan made by the Government to the
            Authority;

       (g) sums required to be transferred to a sinking fund or
            otherwise set aside for the purpose of making provision for
            the repayment of borrowed money;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

23  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

    (h) any sums that may be deemed appropriate to set aside in
         respect of depreciation or renewal of the property of the
         Authority, having regard to the amount set aside out of
         revenue under paragraphs (c) and (f);

    (i) the cost, or any portion of the cost, of any new works,
        plant, vessels or appliances not being a renewal of the
        property of the Authority, which the Authority may
        determine to charge to revenue;

    (j) sums to be transferred to the Railway Sinking Fund
        mentioned in section 13A to fund expenditure —

    (i) for the cost (or part of the cost) of any capital
        equipment including new works, plant, equipment,
        trains, vessels or appliances related to the operation
        and maintenance of the railway network under the
        Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995; or

    (ii) for the cost of acquiring any estate or interest in any
         area or space within a station, or any area or space
         abutting a station the access to which is limited to an
         entrance or exit to the station;

    (k) any sums by way of contribution, for the purposes
        associated with the objects of this Act as the Authority
        may determine, to the public or for charities;

    (l) grants, loans or guarantees to any holder of a bus service
        licence for the purpose of improving and expanding the
        range and reliability of the bus services provided by the
        holders of such licences, including but not limited to
        meeting such expenditure for the delivery of bus services
        as the Authority may approve; and

      (m) any other expenditure authorised by the Authority and
            properly chargeable to revenue account.

                                                                         [21/2010; 17/2012; 30/2015; 5/2018]

 (2) The balance of the revenue of the Land Transport Revenue
Account may be applied to the creation of a general reserve and any
other reserves that the Authority thinks fit.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.              Singapore Act 1995                            24

Railway Sinking Fund

 13A.—(1) There is established by the Authority a Railway Sinking
Fund comprising —

(a) all charges and cash‑bids (if any) that are payable under
     section 13A of the Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995;

(b) all moneys authorised by or under any other written law to
     be paid into the Railway Sinking Fund;

          (c) all moneys borrowed or raised by the Authority for the
              purposes of the Railway Sinking Fund;

(d) all grants by any person or organisation to the Authority for
     the purposes of the Railway Sinking Fund;

          (e) all interest payable under section 19B of the Rapid Transit
              Systems Act 1995 on outstanding amounts of —

          (i) any charge and cash‑bid (if any) imposed under
              section 13A of that Act in respect of a licence; or

          (ii) any financial penalty imposed before 1 April 2016
               under section 19(1)(k) of that Act in respect of a
               licensee which is granted a licence on or after
               13 September 2010;

          (f) all financial penalties imposed before 1 April 2016 under
              section 19(1)(k) of the Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995 in
              respect of licences granted on or after 13 September 2010;

(g) all amounts paid to the Authority by way of discharge of
     any insurance claims in respect of any property of the
     Authority paid for with money from the Railway Sinking
     Fund;

(h) all interest received on investments belonging to the
     Railway Sinking Fund, and all amounts received by the
     Authority from the sale of any investments or other
     property paid for with money from the Railway Sinking
     Fund; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

25  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

        (i) all investments and other property purchased out of
            moneys in the Railway Sinking Fund, including the net
            income from those investments.

                                                                                                [21/2010; 31/2015]

 (2) Moneys must not be withdrawn by the Authority from the
Railway Sinking Fund except for all or any of the following purposes:

    (a) to meet any of the following expenditure to the extent not
         expressly provided as may be met from the Rail
         Infrastructure Fund:

    (i) for the cost (or part of the cost) of any capital
        equipment including new works, plant, equipment,
        trains, vessels or appliances related to the operation
        and maintenance of the railway network under the
        Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995;

    (ii) for the cost of acquiring any estate or interest in any
         area or space within a station, or any area or space
         abutting a station the access to which is limited to an
         entrance or exit to the station;

    (b) to pay insurance premiums on capital equipment, area,
         space or other investment acquired using moneys of the
         Railway Sinking Fund;

    (c) to pay any principal or interest on moneys borrowed or
        raised by the Authority for the purposes of the Railway
        Sinking Fund;

    (d) to pay any expenses properly attributable to the setting up
         of the Railway Sinking Fund, the administration and
         management of moneys in the Railway Sinking Fund, or
         the borrowing or raising of moneys for the purposes of the
         Railway Sinking Fund;

    (e) to refund any sums collected as charges or cash‑bids that
        are in excess of what is payable under section 13A of the
        Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995;

    (f) for investment of moneys in the Railway Sinking Fund in
        accordance with section 17;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        26

(g) to pay all amounts relating to the sale, disposal or write‑off
     of any investments paid for with money from the Railway
     Sinking Fund;

(h) to pay all reasonable legal costs incurred by the Authority
     and all reasonable expenses incurred by the Authority in
     connection with the collection or attempted collection of
     any outstanding amounts (including any interest on the
     amounts) of —

          (i) any charge and cash‑bid (if any) imposed under
              section 13A of the Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995
              in respect of a licence; or

              (ii) any financial penalty imposed before 1 April 2016
                   under section 19(1)(k) of that Act in respect of a
                   licensee which is granted a licence on or after
                   13 September 2010.

                                                                                    [21/2010; 31/2015; 49/2018]

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1)(i), the net income from
investments is the amount ascertained by adding to, or deducting
from, the income received from investments of moneys in the
Railway Sinking Fund any gain derived or loss sustained, realised or
unrealised (as the case may be) from those investments.

                                                                                                [21/2010; 49/2018]

 (4) The Railway Sinking Fund must be managed and administered
by the Authority subject to the directions of the Minister.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

Bus Service Enhancement Fund

 13B.—(1) There is established by the Authority a Bus Service
Enhancement Fund comprising —

       (a) all moneys from time to time appropriated from the
            Consolidated Fund or the Development Fund and
            authorised to be paid into the Bus Service Enhancement
            Fund by any written law;

       (b) all moneys authorised by or under any other written law to
            be paid into the Bus Service Enhancement Fund;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

27  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

    (c) all moneys borrowed or raised by the Authority for the
        purposes of the Bus Service Enhancement Fund;

    (d) all gifts or donations by any person or organisation to the
         Authority for the purposes of the Bus Service
         Enhancement Fund;

    (e) all investments and other property purchased out of
        moneys in the Bus Service Enhancement Fund, including
        the net income from such investments;

    (f) all interest received on investments belonging to the Bus
        Service Enhancement Fund, and all amounts received by
        the Authority from the sale of any investments or other
        property paid for with money from the Bus Service
        Enhancement Fund;

    (g) all sums received by way of repayment of any loan or
         advance from the Bus Service Enhancement Fund, and any
         interest and late payment charge from any such loan or
         advance;

    (h) such proportion as the Minister may approve of the fees,
         rental or other revenue lawfully received by the Authority
         for or in connection with the hiring or leasing of buses, bus
         stops, bus interchanges or terminals or bus parks from the
         Authority, or for or in connection with the advertising on
         such buses or at such bus stops, bus interchanges or
         terminals or bus parks; and

        (i) all damages, cost or other moneys lawfully received by the
            Authority from any holder of a bus service licence on
            account of any breach by the holder of such a licence of
            any term in a grant or loan from or in a lease, contract or
            other arrangement with the Authority, made in connection
            with improving and expanding the range and reliability of
            bus services provided by the holders of bus service
            licences.

                                                                                                [17/2012; 30/2015]

 (2) The moneys in the Bus Service Enhancement Fund may be
withdrawn by the Authority only for all or any of the following
purposes:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        28

(a) to provide grants or loans to any holder of a bus service
     licence for the purpose of improving and expanding the
     range and reliability of the bus services provided by the
     holders of such licences, including but not limited to
     meeting such expenditure for the delivery of bus services
     as the Authority may approve;

(b) to pay all reasonable legal costs incurred by the Authority
     and all reasonable expenses incurred by the Authority in
     connection with the collection or attempted collection of
     any outstanding amounts (including any interest on the
     amounts) of any sums due under any loan or grant made
     out of moneys in the Bus Service Enhancement Fund;

          (c) to acquire any property, movable or immovable, including
              but not limited to buses, with the object of improving and
              expanding the range and reliability of the bus services
              provided by all or any of the holders of bus service
              licences;

(d) for investments in accordance with section 17 of moneys in
     the Bus Service Enhancement Fund;

          (e) to pay all amounts relating to the sale, disposal or write‑off
              of any investments paid for with money from the Bus
              Service Enhancement Fund;

          (f) to pay any principal or interest on moneys borrowed or
              raised by the Authority for the purposes of the Bus Service
              Enhancement Fund;

       (g) to pay any expenses properly attributable to the setting up
            of the Bus Service Enhancement Fund and the
            administration and management of moneys in that Fund.

                                                                                                [17/2012; 30/2015]

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1)(e), the net income from
investments is the amount ascertained by adding to, or deducting
from, the income received from investments of moneys in the Bus
Service Enhancement Fund any gain derived or loss sustained,
realised or unrealised (as the case may be) from those investments.

                                                                                                           [17/2012]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

29  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

 (4) No loan made or investments paid for with moneys from the Bus
Service Enhancement Fund is to be written‑off without the prior
approval of the Minister.

                                                                                                           [17/2012]

 (5) Without limiting subsection (4), the Bus Service Enhancement
Fund must be managed and administered by the Authority subject to
the directions of the Minister.

                                                                                                           [17/2012]

 (6) Upon dissolution of the Bus Service Enhancement Fund during
any term of office of the Government (within the meaning of the
Constitution), the balance of the moneys remaining in that Fund must
be transferred to the Consolidated Fund and be added to the reserves
of the Government not accumulated by it during that term of office.

                                                                                                           [17/2012]

Rail Infrastructure Fund

 13C.—(1) The Rail Infrastructure Fund is established consisting
of —

       (a) all moneys from time to time appropriated from the
            Consolidated Fund or Development Fund and authorised
            to be paid into the Rail Infrastructure Fund by Supply law;

       (b) all moneys authorised by or under any other written law to
            be paid into the Rail Infrastructure Fund;

       (c) any gifts or donations made by any person for the purposes
            of the Rail Infrastructure Fund; and

       (d) all investments of moneys in the Rail Infrastructure Fund
            authorised to be made by this Act and the proceeds of any
            such investments, including the net income from those
            investments.

                                                                                                           [49/2018]

 (2) On 15 January 2019, the Government must pay into the Rail
Infrastructure Fund such sum as the Minister for Finance may
determine out of moneys to be provided by Parliament for the Rail
Infrastructure Fund.

                                                                                                           [49/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        30

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1)(d), the net income from
investments is the amount ascertained by adding to, or deducting
from, the income received from investments of moneys in the Rail
Infrastructure Fund any gain derived or loss sustained, realised or
unrealised (as the case may be) from those investments.

                                                                                                           [49/2018]

 (4) Upon the dissolution of the Rail Infrastructure Fund during any
term of office of the Government (within the meaning of the
Constitution), the balance then remaining in that Fund must be
transferred to the Consolidated Fund and added to the reserves of the
Government not accumulated by it during that term of office.

                                                                                                           [49/2018]

Purposes of Rail Infrastructure Fund

 13D.—(1) The moneys in the Rail Infrastructure Fund may be
withdrawn by the Authority only for the following purposes:

       (a) for the Authority to carry on any construction,
            improvement or extension, or any demolition and
            replacement, of any railway (in whole or part), the
            operation of which is or is to be subject to the Rapid
            Transit Systems Act 1995;

       (b) for the acquisition by the Authority of capital machinery or
            equipment required for or in connection with the start of
            operations of —

               (i) a railway (or a part of a railway) the construction, or
                   demolition and replacement, of which (as the case
                   may be) was paid for with money from the Rail
                   Infrastructure Fund; or

              (ii) an improved or extended railway (or an improved or
                   extended part of a railway) the improvement or
                   extension of which was paid for with money from the
                   Rail Infrastructure Fund;

       (c) for the Authority to carry on any associated design,
            investigative and engineering studies, survey or research
            preparatory to the undertaking of any work or acquisition
            mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

31  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

    (d) to pay any of the following which is incurred or payable (as
         the case may be) for the purposes of the construction,
         improvement or extension, or the demolition and
         replacement (as the case may be) by the Authority of a
         railway, the operation of which is or is to be subject to the
         Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995:

    (i) the costs incurred by the Collector of Land Revenue
        in the acquisition under the Land Acquisition
        Act 1966 of any land;

    (ii) the compensation payable for the acquisition under
         the Land Acquisition Act 1966 of any land that is the
         subject of a notice under section 7 of the Rapid
         Transit Systems Act 1995;

    (e) to pay insurance premiums on capital equipment or other
        investments acquired, and land (including structures)
        acquired and constructed, using money from the Rail
        Infrastructure Fund;

    (f) to pay all amounts relating to the sale, disposal or write‑off
        of any investments paid for with money from the Rail
        Infrastructure Fund;

    (g) to invest in accordance with section 17;

       (h) to pay any expenses properly attributable to the setting up
            of the Rail Infrastructure Fund and the administration,
            management and investment of moneys in that Fund.

                                                                                                           [49/2018]

 (2) However, no investment paid for with money from the Rail
Infrastructure Fund may be written off by the Authority without the
prior approval of the Minister.

                                                                                                           [49/2018]

Funds for construction, etc., projects

 14.—(1) For the purpose of enabling the Authority to carry out its
function and duty of constructing any railway or roads or other related
facilities, the Minister for Finance must, from time to time, provide
funds by way of grants, subject to any conditions that he or she may
impose, to the Authority out of moneys provided by Parliament.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        32

 (2) The Authority may, from time to time and with the approval of
the Minister for Finance, borrow or otherwise raise money in any
currency in Singapore or elsewhere for the purposes referred to in
subsection (1) and on any terms and conditions that the Authority
thinks fit.

 (3) The repayment of money borrowed or raised by the Authority
for the purposes referred to in subsection (1), and interest, premium
and other charges thereon and costs and fees incurred for the purpose
of borrowing or raising such money must be met out of funds
provided to the Authority by the Minister for Finance.

 (4) Nothing in this section restricts the power of the Authority to
borrow or raise or secure the repayment of money for purposes other
than the purposes referred to in subsection (1).

Issue of shares, etc.

 14A. As a consequence of —

       (a) the vesting of any property, rights or liabilities of the
            Government in the Authority under this Act; or

       (b) any capital injection or other investment by the
            Government in the Authority in accordance with any
            written law,

the Authority must issue such shares or other securities to the
Minister for Finance as that Minister may direct.

                                                                                                             [5/2002]

Operating expenses

 15.—(1) It is the duty of the Authority to exercise and perform its
functions under this Act so as to secure that the total revenues of the
Authority are sufficient, taking one financial year with another, to
meet its total operating expenses properly chargeable to the Land
Transport Revenue Account.

 (2) In this section, “operating expenses” does not include —

       (a) operating expenses associated directly with the function
            and duty mentioned in section 14(1); and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

33  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

    (b) interests, fees and other charges in respect of loans
         incurred under section 14(2),

the payment of which must be met from funds provided by the
Minister for Finance to the Authority pursuant to section 14(1).

Bank accounts and application of revenue

 16.—(1) The Authority must open and maintain one or more
accounts with such bank or banks as the Authority thinks fit; and
every such account must be operated as far as practicable by cheque
signed by such person or persons authorised to do so by the Authority.

 (2) The moneys of the Authority must be applied only in payment
or discharge of the expenses, obligations and liabilities of the
Authority and in making any payments that the Authority is
authorised or required to make.

Power of investment

 17. The Authority may invest its funds in the Land Transport
Revenue Account, the Railway Sinking Fund, the Rail Infrastructure
Fund or the Bus Service Enhancement Fund in accordance with the
standard investment power of statutory bodies as defined in
section 33A of the Interpretation Act 1965.

                                                                        [45/2004; 21/2010; 17/2012; 49/2018]

Financial year

 18. The financial year of the Authority begins on 1 April of each
year and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

                                    PART 6

     RIGHTS TO COMPENSATION, CLAIMS PROCEDURE
             AND ASSESSMENT OF COMPENSATION

No remedy except under this Act

 19.—(1) No action, claim or proceedings shall lie or be brought
against the Authority or any other person —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        34

(a) to restrain the doing of anything which is authorised by or
     under the Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995 or to compel the
     doing of anything which may be omitted to be done under
     that Act;

(b) to restrain the doing of anything which is authorised by or
     under the Cross‑Border Railways Act 2018 or to compel
     the doing of anything which may be omitted to be done
     under that Act; or

          (c) to recover damages, compensation or costs for —

          (i) damage or disturbance to or loss of or in the value of
              any land, chattel, trade or business;

          (ii) personal disturbance or inconvenience;

          (iii) extinguishment, modification or restriction of rights;
                or

          (iv) effecting or complying with any requirement or
               condition imposed by the Authority,

       (c) which is authorised by or under the Rapid Transit Systems
            Act 1995 or the Cross‑Border Railways Act 2018 or arises
            from any act or omission so authorised, except pursuant to
            one of the rights to compensation provided for in
            section 20.

                                                                                                           [21/2018]

 (2) No action, claim or proceedings shall lie or be brought against
the Authority or any other person —

(a) to restrain the doing of anything which is authorised —

          (i) by section 9, 12 or 29 of the Street Works Act 1995;
              or

          (ii) by any other provision of the Street Works Act 1995
               relating to the construction of a road tunnel,

(a) or to compel the doing of anything which may be omitted
     to be done under those provisions of that Act; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

35  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

    (b) to recover damages, compensation or costs for —

    (i) damage or disturbance to or loss of or in the value of
        any land, chattel, trade or business;

    (ii) personal disturbance or inconvenience;

    (iii) extinguishment, modification or restriction of rights;
          or

    (iv) effecting or complying with any requirement or
         condition imposed by the Authority,

    (b) which is authorised by or under section 9, 12 or 29 of the
         Street Works Act 1995 or is authorised by any other
         provision of that Act relating to the construction of a road
         tunnel, or arises from any act or omission so authorised,
         except pursuant to one of the rights of compensation
         provided for in section 20.

Compensation

 20.—(1) The rights to compensation mentioned in section 19 are
the rights to claim from the Authority or any other person for the
items of loss, damage or cost set out in the first column of Part 1 of the
Fourth Schedule a sum assessed on the basis specified opposite in the
second column thereof and with regard to the provisions of Part 2 of
the Fourth Schedule, subject to —

       (a) the claim being served on the Authority or that other
            person within the appropriate period specified in the fourth
            column of Part 1 of the Fourth Schedule; and

       (b) the other provisions of this Act.

 (2) Every person who is described in the third column of Part 1 of
the Fourth Schedule has the right to claim compensation for the items
of loss, damage or cost set out opposite in the first column to the
extent of the loss, damage or cost suffered or incurred by the person
as assessed pursuant to this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                          36

Claims against persons other than Authority

 21. Where any action, claim or proceeding is brought against any
person other than the Authority to recover the damages,
compensation or costs for —

(a) damage or disturbance to or loss of or in the value of any
     land, chattel, trade or business;

(b) personal disturbance or inconvenience; or

          (c) extinguishment, modification or restriction of rights,

pursuant to one of the rights to compensation provided for in
section 20, sections 22, 23, 25 and 27 apply and any reference to the
Authority in those sections is a reference to that other person.

Claims out of time

 22.—(1) Subject to this section, if a claim for an item of loss,
damage or cost is not served on the Authority before the end of the
period specified in the fourth column of Part 1 of the Fourth Schedule
in respect of that item, the right to claim compensation for that item is
barred.

 (2) The period mentioned in subsection (1) may, upon application
made to the Compensation Board either before or after the end of that
period, be extended in accordance with this section.

 (3) Notice of an application under subsection (2) must be given to
the Authority by the applicant.

 (4) The Compensation Board may extend the period within which a
claim must be served upon the Authority if the Board considers
that —

       (a) the delay in serving the claim was occasioned by mistake
            of fact or mistake of any matter of law (other than the
            relevant provision in the fourth column of Part 1 of the
            Fourth Schedule) or by any other reasonable cause; or

       (b) the Authority is not materially affected in the conduct of its
            case or otherwise by the delay.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

37  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

 (5) An extension may be granted by the Compensation Board under
subsection (4), with or without conditions, for any period that the
Board thinks fit but not in any case exceeding 6 years from the time
when the right to compensation first arose.

Disqualification as to certain compensation

 22A.—(1) If an owner of any land temporary possession of which
is or has been taken in the exercise of any power in section 5 of the
Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995 gives to the Authority any notice
under section 7(1) of that Act in relation to that land within the claim
period referred to in section 7A(2)(d) of that Act, the owner is entitled
to claim only for loss due to displacement of any person in lawful
occupation of the land on the date of the notice under section 5 of that
Act, and no other item in the Fourth Schedule.

                                                                                                           [12/2015]

 (2) If an owner of any land temporary possession of which is or has
been taken in the exercise of any power in section 8 of the
Cross‑Border Railways Act 2018 gives to the Authority any notice
under section 15(1) of that Act in relation to that land within the claim
period mentioned in section 16(2)(d) of that Act, the owner is entitled
to claim only for loss due to displacement of any person in lawful
occupation of the land on the date of the notice under section 8 of that
Act, and no other item in the Fourth Schedule.

                                                                                                           [21/2018]

 (3) If an owner of any land temporary possession of which is or has
been taken in the exercise of any power in section 9 of the Street
Works Act 1995 gives to the Authority any notice under section 11(1)
of that Act in relation to that land within the claim period referred to
in section 11A(2)(d) of that Act, the owner is entitled to claim only for
loss due to displacement of any person in lawful occupation of the
land on the date of the notice under section 9 of that Act, and no other
item in the Fourth Schedule.

                                                                                                           [12/2015]

Claims procedure

 23.—(1) Any person who claims to be entitled to compensation
under this Act must serve on the Authority a written claim setting out

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        38

such of the following particulars as are applicable to the person’s
claim:

(a) the name of the claimant and the claimant’s address for
     service of notices;

(b) a full description of the land to which the claim relates
     including any covenants, easements or restrictions
     affecting the same;

          (c) the nature of the claimant’s interest in the land including, in
              the case of a sublessee or subtenant, the landlord’s name
              and address and details of the sublease or tenancy;

(d) details of any mortgage, including the principal still owing
     and the name and address of the mortgagee;

          (e) if the claimant has sublet the land or any part of the land,
              the name and address of each tenant and details of the lease
              or tenancy;

          (f) particulars of the claim showing —

          (i) under which item the claim is made; and

          (ii) how the amount claimed under any item is
               calculated.

 (2) The Authority must in writing acknowledge receipt and the date
of receipt of every claim served on the Authority under
subsection (1).

 (3) If a claimant amends a claim before proceedings are
commenced before the Compensation Board and the Authority
considers the amendment to be substantial, the Authority may, within
14 days of the receipt of the amended claim, notify the claimant that it
elects to treat the claim, for the purposes of this section, as if it were a
new claim served under subsection (1) on the date on which the
amendment was received by the Authority, and this section applies
accordingly.

 (4) The Authority may by written notice to the claimant request that
the claimant supply further particulars of and in support of the claim
or any item of the claim, and if any of those particulars are not
supplied to the Authority within a period of 28 days from the date of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

39  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

the notice, or within any further period that the Authority may in
writing allow, the claim or the item concerning which the particulars
are requested is deemed to be rejected and subsection (5) does not
apply.

 (5) The Authority must, within 3 months of the service of a claim on
it, or if the Authority has requested further particulars under
subsection (4) within 3 months of the day on which they are
provided in accordance with that subsection, notify the claimant in
writing that the Authority —

    (a) admits the entire claim;

    (b) rejects the entire claim; or

    (c) admits a specified part or parts and rejects the remainder,

and in every case must briefly state its reasons for rejection so that the
claimant is adequately informed of those reasons.

 (6) Where the Authority has rejected a claim or any part of a claim
under subsection (5) or where a claim or any part of it is deemed to
have been rejected under subsection (4), the Authority may —

    (a) by written notice offer to the claimant a sum (including
         costs) that the Authority is willing to pay in full and final
         settlement of the claim or any part of it, as the case may be;
         or

    (b) commence proceedings before the Compensation Board to
         have the claim or any part of it heard and determined by the
         Board in accordance with this Act.

 (7) The Authority may commence proceedings before the
Compensation Board to have the claim or any part of it heard and
determined in accordance with this Act where any offer under
subsection (6)(a) is refused by the claimant.

 (8) If, at the end of 4 months from the receipt of a claim by the
Authority, it has not been settled by agreement, either the claimant or
the Authority may commence proceedings before the Compensation
Board to have the claim, or so much of it as is still then in dispute,
heard and determined by the Board in accordance with this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        40

 (9) In any case where the claimant has failed to supply further
particulars required by the Authority in accordance with
subsection (4), the Compensation Board may on the hearing of the
claim consider the merits of the Authority’s request for further
particulars, and the claimant’s failure to supply them and may, if the
Board thinks fit —

(a) order the claimant to supply some or all of the particulars;

(b) adjourn the hearing until the order is complied with and the
     particulars are considered by the Authority; and

          (c) make such further order as the Board thinks fit as to the
              costs of either party occasioned by the Authority’s request
              for and the claimant’s failure to supply the further
              particulars.

Claims by minor, etc.

 24. A claim may be brought on behalf of a minor by his or her
guardian or guardians, or any of them, and on behalf of a mentally
disordered person by the person empowered by law to administer his
or her assets.

Settlement after reference to Compensation Board

 25.—(1) At any time after proceedings have been commenced
before the Compensation Board but before compensation is finally
assessed, the Authority may make a written offer of the kind
described in section 23(6)(a) or the claimant may by notice to the
Authority offer a sum (inclusive or exclusive of costs) which the
claimant is willing to accept in full and final settlement of the claim or
any rejected part of the claim.

 (2) Where an offer made by the Authority pursuant to
section 23(6)(a) or by the Authority or the claimant pursuant to
subsection (1) is not accepted by the other party, no part of the
contents of the offer which relates to any part of a claim before the
Compensation Board is to be disclosed to the Board until the amount
of compensation for that part is assessed by it but a copy of the offer
enclosed in a sealed envelope may be lodged with the president and
opened by him or her after the Board has made its assessment.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

41  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

 (3) Where the Authority has made any offer pursuant to
section 23(6)(a) which is refused by the claimant or either party
has made any offer pursuant to subsection (1) which is refused by the
other and the compensation including costs (if any) assessed by the
Compensation Board does not exceed the amount of compensation
including costs (if any) comprised in the offer, the Board must, unless
for special reasons the Board thinks it proper not to do so, order the
party who refused the offer to bear the party’s own costs and to pay
the costs of the other party insofar as the costs of either party are
incurred after the making of the offer.

                                    PART 7

       ASSESSMENT AND AWARD OF COMPENSATION

Establishment of Compensation Board

 26.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, there is established a
Compensation Board consisting of a president and such number of
members, not fewer than 2, as the Minister may think fit.

 (2) The president and every member of the Compensation Board
must be appointed by the Minister and upon appointment the names
of the president and every member of the Board must be published in
the Gazette.

 (3) The president must possess the qualifications required for a
District Judge under section 9(3) of the State Courts Act 1970 or be a
District Judge appointed under section 9(1) of that Act, and must
preside at all sessions of the Compensation Board.

                                                                                                             [5/2014]

 (4) Three members of the Compensation Board of whom the
president is one, form a quorum, and the opinion of the majority of the
Board present is decisive upon any matter, except that in the case of
an equality the president decides which opinion prevails.

 (5) Every member of the Compensation Board, except where his or
her appointment is revoked by the Minister under subsection (6) or he
or she resigns during the period of his or her appointment, holds
office for a period of 3 years or for such shorter period as the Minister
may, in any case, determine but is eligible for re‑appointment.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        42

 (6) The Minister may at any time revoke the appointment of a
member of the Compensation Board.

 (7) Where a person ceases to be a member of the Compensation
Board, the Minister must, as soon as is reasonably practicable, take
steps to fill the vacancy but the existence of any vacancy in the Board
does not invalidate the acts of the Board.

 (8) Every member of the Compensation Board when and so long as
serving on the Board is deemed to be a public servant within the
meaning of the Penal Code 1871 and the proceedings of the Board are
deemed to be judicial proceedings.

 (9) There must be paid to the members of the Compensation Board
such salaries, fees and allowances as the Minister may determine.

 (10) Any interested party may be represented before the
Compensation Board —

(a) by an advocate and solicitor of the Supreme Court;

(b) subject to the provisions of the Legal Aid and Advice
     Act 1995, by the Director of Legal Aid or any of his or her
     officers; or

          (c) in any particular case in which the Board may at the request
              of that party and for good reason permit, by an agent acting
              without fee, gain, reward or any expectation thereof as that
              party may appoint.

 (11) Every summons and notice issued under the hand of the
president is deemed to be issued by the Compensation Board.

 (12) The Minister may appoint a secretary of the Compensation
Board and such other officers and employees of the Board as may be
necessary.

Compensation Board to hear and determine claims

 27.—(1) The Compensation Board has jurisdiction to hear and
determine in accordance with this Act —

       (a) all claims for compensation which the Authority or the
            claimant may refer to it under section 23(6); and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

43  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

    (b) applications provided for by section 22(2).

 (2) The Compensation Board also has jurisdiction to award
compensation or any part of it to a claimant if at the time of the
award the Board has no notice or intimation of any dispute as to the
claimant’s entitlement.

 (3) However, the making of any award under subsection (2) does
not affect the entitlement to receive compensation under this Act of
any other person who may later be held by a court of competent
jurisdiction to have a better title to the compensation or any other part
of the compensation other than the person to whom it was awarded.

Power of Compensation Board to examine witness on oath, etc.

 28. The Compensation Board has powers to examine any witness
on oath, to summon any person to appear before it and to require any
interested party or witness to produce any relevant document which
the Board may require.

Review of awards of Compensation Board

 29.—(1) An award of compensation of the Compensation Board
may be reviewed, varied or set aside by the Board in any of the
following circumstances:

       (a) where an award of compensation was made in
            consequence of any fraud, misrepresentation or mistake;

       (b) where fresh evidence of a material nature which could not
            by the exercise of reasonable diligence have been produced
            when an award of compensation was made is available;

       (c) where an award of compensation was made in the absence
            of any necessary or proper party whose absence was not
            due to any default or neglect on the party’s part;

       (d) where in the opinion of the Board some substantial wrong
            or miscarriage of justice is occasioned by an award of
            compensation.

 (2) An award must not be reviewed, varied or set aside by the
Compensation Board under subsection (1) unless a party aggrieved

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        44

by the award applies to the Board not later than 2 years from the date
of the award.

Power of Compensation Board to state special case for decision
of General Division of High Court

 30.—(1) The Compensation Board may, at any stage of an
application or proceeding before it, reserve for the consideration of
the General Division of the High Court any question of law arising in
the application or proceeding in the form of a special case which must
be —

       (a) drawn up by the president and must set out shortly the facts
            on which the law is to be applied and the question or
            questions of law to be determined;

       (b) sent by the president to the Registrar of the Supreme Court;
            and

       (c) set down for argument in such manner as the General
            Division of the High Court directs.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) The General Division of the High Court is to hear and determine
any question of law arising on the special case and thereupon remit
the matter to the president with the opinion of the General Division of
the High Court on the question and that opinion is binding on the
Compensation Board.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) The costs of the proceeding in the General Division of the High
Court are in the discretion of the General Division of the High Court
and may be dealt with by the order of the General Division of the
High Court, except that no member of the Compensation Board shall
be personally liable to any costs in respect of the proceedings.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (4) Nothing in this section prevents the Compensation Board from
determining any question of law arising in the application or
proceeding before it.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

45  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

General Division of High Court may call for proceedings of
Compensation Board

 31.—(1) The General Division of the High Court, either on its own
motion or on the application within 14 days of any party aggrieved by
a decision of the Compensation Board on the ground that it is wrong
in law, may call for the proceedings and the grounds of the award and
give such order thereon, either by directing a fresh hearing or
otherwise, as seems necessary to secure that substantial justice is
done.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) The powers of review conferred upon the General Division of
the High Court in this section do not extend to a decision of the
Compensation Board as to the quantum of compensation awarded or
apportioned under section 27.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) There is no further right of appeal from the decision of the
General Division of the High Court under this section and under
section 30.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

                                    PART 8

                TRANSFER OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES
                            AND EMPLOYEES

Transfer to Authority of property, assets and liabilities of
Government

 32.—(1) As from 1 September 1995, such movable and immovable
property vested in the Government as may be determined by the
Minister for Finance and used or managed by —

       (a) the Registry of Vehicles;

       (b) the Roads and Transportation Division of the Public Works
            Department; and

       (c) the Land Transport Division of the Ministry of
            Communications,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        46

and all assets, interests, rights, privileges, liabilities and obligations
of the Government relating to the Registry of Vehicles, the Roads and
Transportation Division of the Public Works Department and the
Land Transport Division of the Ministry of Communications are
transferred to and vest in the Authority without further assurance.

 (2) If any question arises as to whether any particular property, or
whether any particular asset, interest, right, privilege, liability or
obligation has been transferred to or vested in the Authority under
subsection (1), a certificate under the hand of the Minister for Finance
is conclusive evidence that the property, asset, interest, right,
privilege, liability or obligation was or was not so transferred or
vested.

 (3) Any immovable property to be transferred to and vested in the
Authority under subsection (1) must be held by the Authority upon
such tenure and subject to such terms and conditions as the President
of Singapore may determine.

Transfer of employees

 33.—(1) As from 1 September 1995, such categories of persons
employed immediately before that date in —

       (a) the Registry of Vehicles;

       (b) the Roads and Transportation Division of the Public Works
            Department; and

       (c) the Land Transport Division of the Ministry of
            Communications,

as the Minister may determine are transferred to the service of the
Authority on terms no less favourable than those enjoyed by them
immediately prior to their transfer.

 (2) Until such time as terms and conditions of service are drawn up
by the Authority, the scheme and terms and conditions of service in
the Government continue to apply to every person transferred to the
service of the Authority under subsection (1) as if he or she were still
in the service of the Government.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

47  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

Pension rights, etc., of Government employees to be preserved

 34.—(1) The terms and conditions to be drawn up by the Authority
must take into account the salaries and terms and conditions of
service, including any accrued rights to leave, enjoyed by the persons
transferred to the service of the Authority under section 33 while in
the employment of the Government; and any such term or condition
relating to the length of service with the Authority must provide for
the recognition of service under the Government by the persons so
transferred to be service by them under the Authority.

 (2) The terms and conditions to be drawn up by the Authority must
not adversely affect the conditions that would have been applicable to
persons transferred to the service of the Authority as regards any
pension, gratuity or allowance payable under the Pensions Act 1956.

 (3) In every case where a person has been transferred to the service
of the Authority under section 33, the Government is liable to pay to
the Authority such portion of any gratuity, pension or allowance
payable to that person on his or her retirement as the same bears to the
proportion which the aggregate amount of his or her pensionable
emoluments during his or her service with the Government bears to
the aggregate amount of his or her pensionable emoluments during
his or her service under both the Government and the Authority.

 (4) Where any person in the service of the Authority whose case
does not fall within the scope of any pension or other schemes
established under this section retires or dies in the service of the
Authority or is discharged from such service, the Authority may grant
to him or her or to such other person or persons wholly or partly
dependent on him or her, as the Authority thinks fit, such allowance
or gratuity as the Authority may determine.

 (5) Where any person who is transferred to the service of the
Authority under section 33 is a contributor under the Widows’ and
Orphans’ Pension Act 1904, he or she shall for the purposes of that
Act continue to make contributions under that Act as if he or she had
not been transferred to the service of the Authority and for the
purposes of that Act his or her service with the Authority is deemed to
be service with the Government.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        48

No benefits in respect of abolition or reorganisation of office

 35. Despite the provisions of the Pensions Act 1956, no person who
is transferred to the service of the Authority under section 33 is
entitled to claim any benefit under the Pensions Act 1956 on the
ground that he or she has been retired from the service of the
Government on account of abolition or reorganisation of office in
consequence of the establishment and incorporation of the Authority.

Existing contracts

 36. All deeds, bonds, agreements, instruments and arrangements
subsisting immediately before 1 September 1995 to which the
Government is a party and relating to the Registry of Vehicles, the
Roads and Transportation Division of the Public Works Department
or the Land Transport Division of the Ministry of Communications or
to any person transferred to the service of the Authority under
section 33 continue in force on and after that date and are enforceable
by or against the Authority as if the Authority had been named therein
or had been a party thereto instead of the Government.

Continuation and completion of disciplinary proceedings

 37.—(1) Where on 1 September 1995 any disciplinary proceedings
were pending against any employee of the Government transferred to
the service of the Authority, the proceedings must be carried on and
completed by the Authority; but where on that date any matter was in
the course of being heard or investigated or had been heard or
investigated by a committee acting under due authority but no order
or decision had been rendered thereon, the committee must complete
the hearing or investigation and make such order, ruling or direction
as it could have made under the authority vested in it before
1 September 1995.

 (2) Any order, ruling or direction made or given by a committee
pursuant to this section is treated as an order, a ruling or a direction of
the Authority and has the same force or effect as if it had been made
or given by the Authority pursuant to the authority vested in the
Authority under this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

49  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

Misconduct or neglect of duty by employee before transfer

 38. The Authority may reprimand, reduce in rank, retire, dismiss or
punish in any other manner a person who had, while he or she was in
the employment of the Government, been guilty of any misconduct or
neglect of duty which would have rendered him or her liable to be
reprimanded, reduced in rank, retired, dismissed or punished in any
other manner if he or she had continued to be in the employment of
the Government and if this Act had not been enacted.

                                    PART 9

                                  GENERAL

Powers of enforcement

 39.—(1) In addition to the powers conferred on him or her by any
written law specified in the Fifth Schedule, an officer or employee of
the Authority may, on declaration of his or her office and production
to the person against whom he or she is acting such identification card
as the Chief Executive may direct to be carried by officers or
employees of the Authority, in relation to any offence under any such
written law —

       (a) exercise all the powers of a police officer under
            sections 81, 92, 93 and 127 of the Road Traffic Act 1961
            and all the powers of a duly authorised police officer under
            section 94 of that Act, and any reference in those sections
            to a police officer or duly authorised police officer includes
            a reference to such officer or employee of the Authority;

       (b) require any person whom he or she reasonably believes to
            have committed an offence under any such written law to
            furnish evidence of the person’s identity;

       (c) if he or she is generally or specially authorised in writing
            by the Chief Executive, arrest without warrant any person
            found committing or whom he or she has reason to believe
            has committed an offence under any such written law,
            except as otherwise provided in paragraph (a);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        50

(d) for the purposes of any such written law, require any
     person to give any information or produce any book,
     document or copy thereof in the possession of that person,
     and may, without fee or reward, inspect, copy or make
     extracts from the book or document;

          (e) when conducting any investigation under such written law,
              require, by written order, the attendance before the officer
              or employee of any person being within the limits of
              Singapore who from the information given or otherwise
              appears to be acquainted with the circumstances of the
              case, and the person so ordered must attend as required;
              and

        (f) detain or seize any document found in the course of a
            search under this subsection.

                                                                                                 [3/2017; 20/2019]

 (2) The power of an officer or employee of the Authority to require
a person to give any information or document under subsection (1)(d)
includes the power —

(a) to require the person, or any person who is or was an
     officer or employee of that person, to provide an
     explanation of the information or document;

(b) if the information or document is not given, to require the
     person to state, to the best of the person’s knowledge and
     belief, where it is; and

       (c) if the information or document is recorded otherwise than
            in legible form, to require the information or document to
            be made available to the officer or employee of the
            Authority in legible form.

                                                                                                             [3/2017]

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), if any information or
document required by an officer or employee of the Authority is kept
in electronic form —

(a) the power of the officer or employee to inspect the
     information or document includes the power —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

51  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

    (i) to access any computer or other equipment
        (including a mobile telephone) in which the
        information or document is stored; and

    (ii) to require any person having charge of, or otherwise
         concerned with the operation of, the computer or
         equipment to provide assistance in gaining such
         access; and

    (b) the power of the officer or employee to seize the
         information or document includes the power —

    (i) to make copies of the information or document in
        legible or electronic form; and

              (ii) to transfer the content from the information or
                   document to a disk, tape or other storage device.

                                                                                                             [3/2017]

 (4) If an officer or employee of the Authority is unable to make
copies of the information or document, or transfer the content from
the information or document, under subsection (3), the officer or
employee may —

    (a) seize the computer or other equipment (including a mobile
         telephone) in which the information or document is stored,
         as evidence in proceedings for an offence under this Act or
         written law specified in the Fifth Schedule; and

       (b) require any person having charge of, or otherwise
            concerned with the operation of, the computer or
            equipment to disclose any password or access code for
            gaining access to the information or document held in the
            computer or equipment.

                                                                                                             [3/2017]

 (5) Where any person is arrested by an officer or employee of the
Authority under subsection (1), the officer or employee must comply
with sections 67 and 68 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 as if he
or she were a police officer.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.            Singapore Act 1995                              52

(6) A person who —

(a) refuses to give access to, or assaults, obstructs, hinders or
     delays, an officer or employee of the Authority in the
     discharge of his or her duties;

(b) wilfully misstates or without lawful excuse refuses to give
     any information, or without lawful excuse refuses to
     produce any book, document or copy thereof required of
     him or her by an officer or employee of the Authority under
     subsection (1); or

          (c) fails to comply with a lawful demand of an officer or
              employee of the Authority in the discharge of his or her
              duties,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Proceedings conducted by officers of Authority

 40.—(1) Proceedings in respect of any offence under this Act or
any written law specified in the Fifth Schedule, or any subsidiary
legislation made under this Act or any such written law, may, with the
authorisation of the Public Prosecutor, be conducted by an officer of
the Authority who is authorised by the Authority to conduct such
proceedings.

                                                                                     [15/2010; 3/2017; 20/2019]

 (2) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend the
Fifth Schedule.

Preservation of secrecy

 41.—(1) Except for the purpose of the performance of duties or the
exercise of functions or when lawfully required to do so by any court
or where required or allowed by the provisions of any written law, a
person who is or has been a member, an officer, an employee or an
agent of the Authority or a member of a committee of the Authority
must not disclose any information relating to the affairs of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

53  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

Authority or of any other person which has been obtained by the
person in the performance of duties or the exercise of functions.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to
both.

Authority’s symbol or representation

 42.—(1) The Authority has the exclusive right to the use of such
symbol or representation as the Authority may select or devise and to
display or exhibit the symbol or representation in connection with its
activities or affairs.

 (2) Any person who uses a symbol or representation identical with
that of the Authority, or which so resembles the Authority’s symbol or
representation as to deceive or cause confusion, or to be likely to
deceive or to cause confusion, shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Electronic service system

 43.—(1) The Authority may establish a system providing for the
electronic service —

       (a) by a person (or an electronic service agent on behalf of that
            person) on the Authority or an officer of the Authority
            administering any relevant land transport legislation; or

       (b) by the Authority, or an officer of the Authority
            administering any relevant land transport legislation, on
            a person or an electronic service agent on behalf of that
            person,

of an application, a notice or other document which is permitted or
required by or under any relevant land transport legislation to be
served or given.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        54

 (2) Rules may be made under section 44 regarding the
administration and use of the system provided under this section,
including —

(a) the assignment of authentication codes and accounts to
     users of the service;

(b) the circumstances under which authentication codes and
     accounts of users may be cancelled or suspended;

          (c) the registration of electronic service agents of account
              holders, including the qualifications to be registered as
              electronic service agents, and the cancellation and
              suspension of the registration;

(d) the manner in which an electronic service agent may be
     authorised by a person to give or serve on behalf of that
     person through the electronic service an application, a
     notice or other document;

          (e) the inspection by the Authority (or any person authorised
              in writing by the Authority) of records and accounts kept
              by electronic service agents relating to the use of the
              system;

          (f) the procedure for the proper use of the system, including
              the procedure in circumstances where there is a breakdown
              of the system or an interruption in any electronic service
              using the system;

(g) the procedure for correcting any return, estimate,
     statement, document or information that is electronically
     served using the system; and

(h) the fees for —

          (i) the use of the system;

          (ii) the assignment of an authentication code or account
               to use the system, and the cancellation or suspension
               of such a code or an account on request;

          (iii) the registration of electronic service agents; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

55  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

             (iv) the corrections mentioned in paragraph (g).

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (3) Where an application, a notice or other document which is
permitted or required by or under any relevant land transport
legislation is served electronically using the system provided under
subsection (1), the following have effect, despite any Act to the
contrary:

    (a) the application, notice or document is deemed for the
         purposes of that legislation to be served on or given to the
         recipient at the time when the electronic record of the
         application, notice or document (as the case may be) enters
         the recipient’s account with the electronic service;

    (b) where the electronic service is done by an electronic
         service agent on behalf of any person (called in this section
         the principal) —

    (i) the application, notice or document is deemed to be
        served or given with the authority of the principal;
        and

    (ii) the principal is to be treated to be cognizant of all
         matters in the application, notice or document,

    (b) unless that principal has, before the electronic service is
         done, informed the Chief Executive in the prescribed
         manner that the principal has revoked the authority of the
         electronic service agent for the serving of the application,
         notice or document in question;

    (c) where the electronic service of an application, a notice or
        document which is permitted or required by or under any
        relevant land transport legislation is done using the
        authentication code assigned to a person before that
        person applies to cancel the authentication code —

    (i) the application, notice or document is, for the
        purposes of that legislation, presumed to have been
        served or given by that person unless the person
        adduces evidence to the contrary; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        56

              (ii) if that person alleges that the person did not serve or
                   give the application, notice or document, the burden
                   lies on the person to adduce evidence of that fact.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (4) Despite any other Act, an electronic record of an application, a
notice or document which is permitted or required by or under any
relevant land transport legislation that was electronically served using
the system provided under subsection (1), or any copy or print‑out of
that electronic record, is, in any proceedings under that legislation,
admissible as evidence of the facts stated or contained therein if that
electronic record, copy or print‑out —

(a) is certified by the Chief Executive (or an officer of the
     Authority whom the Chief Executive designates) to
     contain all or any information filed, submitted or served
     through the electronic service in accordance with this
     section; and

       (b) is duly authenticated in the manner specified in
            subsection (7) or is otherwise authenticated in the
            manner provided in the Evidence Act 1893 for the
            authentication of computer output.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (5) Where the electronic record of any document, or a copy or
print‑out of that electronic record, is admissible under subsection (4),
it must be presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the electronic
record, copy or print‑out accurately reproduces the contents of that
document.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (6) To avoid doubt, the following do not apply to an electronic
record of a document served electronically using the system provided
under subsection (1), or any copy or print‑out of that electronic
record:

(a) section 18(7) of the Parking Places Act 1974;

(b) section 139A of the Road Traffic Act 1961.

                                                                    [38/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

57  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

(7) For the purposes of this section, a certificate —

    (a) giving the particulars of —

    (i) any person whose authentication code was used to
        electronically serve the document using the system;
        or

    (ii) any person or device involved in the production or
         transmission of the electronic record of the
         document, or the copy or print‑out;

    (b) identifying the nature of the electronic record or a copy or
         print‑out; and

    (c) purporting to be signed by the Chief Executive or an
        officer of the Authority whom the Chief Executive
        designates at the relevant time,

is sufficient evidence that the electronic record, copy or print‑out has
been duly authenticated, unless the court, in its discretion, calls for
further evidence on this issue.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (8) In this section and the rules made for the purposes of this
section —

    “authentication code”, in relation to any person, means an
       identification or identifying code, a password or any other
       authentication method or procedure which is assigned to that
       person for the purposes of identifying and authenticating the
       access to, and use of, the system provided under
       subsection (1) by that person, and includes one assigned
       for such purposes in order to file, submit or retrieve a
       particular document only;

    “electronic record” has the meaning given by the Electronic
       Transactions Act 2010;

    “relevant land transport legislation”, for any application, notice
       or document permitted or required by or under such
       legislation, means —

    (a) this section and any rules made under section 44 for
         the purposes of this section; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        58

          (b) any written law specified in the Fifth Schedule which
               provides for a method for the service of applications,
               notices or documents of that kind if the recipient
               consents (expressly or impliedly) to service of an
               application, a notice or document of that kind in that
               way.

                                                                                                 [38/2018]

Service of documents

 43A.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to
be served on a person may be served as described in this section.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (2) A document may be served on an individual —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
            if no address is specified, the individual’s residential
            address or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult person apparently residing there, or at the
            individual’s business address with an adult person
            apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number given by the
            individual as the fax number for the service of documents
            under this Act;

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s email address;

       (g) by giving an electronic notice to the individual by the
            individual’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
            document is available and how the individual may use the
            individual’s chosen means of access to access the
            document’s contents; or

       (h) by any other method authorised by rules made under
            section 44 for the service of documents of that kind if the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

59  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

            individual consents (expressly or impliedly) to service of a
            document of that kind in that way.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (3) A document may be served on a partnership (other than a
limited liability partnership) —

    (a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer of the
         partnership;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the partnership’s business address;

    (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
        partnership’s business address;

    (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s email address;

    (e) by giving an electronic notice to the partnership by the
        partnership’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
        document is available and how the partnership may use the
        partnership’s chosen means of access to access the
        document’s contents; or

        (f) by any other method authorised by rules made under
            section 44 for the service of documents of that kind if the
            partnership consents (expressly or impliedly) to service of
            a document of that kind in that way.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (4) A document may be served on a body corporate (including a
limited liability partnership) or an unincorporated association —

    (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
         body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
         limited liability partnership’s manager;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the body corporate’s or unincorporated association’s
         registered office or principal office in Singapore;

    (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the body
        corporate’s or unincorporated association’s registered
        office or principal office in Singapore;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        60

(d) by sending it by email to the body corporate’s or
     unincorporated association’s email address;

          (e) by giving an electronic notice to the body corporate or
              unincorporated association by the body corporate’s or
              unincorporated association’s chosen means of notification,
              stating that the document is available and how the body
              corporate or unincorporated association (as the case may
              be) may use its chosen means of access to access the
              document’s contents; or

        (f) by any other method authorised by rules made under
            section 44 for the service of documents of that kind if the
            body corporate or unincorporated association (as the case
            may be) consents (expressly or impliedly) to service of a
            document of that kind in that way.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (5) Service of a document on a person under this section takes
effect —

(a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
     successful transmission is received, on the day of the
     transmission;

(b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
     becomes capable of being retrieved by the person; and

       (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, on the
            second day after the day the document is posted (even if it
            is returned undelivered).

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (6) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email or by an electronic notice at the person’s chosen means of
notification may be effected only with the person’s prior consent
(express or implied) to service in that way.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court for an offence or other matter under this Act.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

61                     Singapore Act 1995                     2020 Ed.

(8) In this section —

    “business address” means —

    (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
         last known place of business in Singapore; and

    (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
         liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
         last known place of business in Singapore;

    “chosen means of access”, for an addressee on whom is or is to
       be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
       means an electronic means the addressee agrees with the
       person giving or serving the document as the means by which
       the addressee may access that document’s contents;

    “chosen means of notification”, for an addressee on whom is or
       is to be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
       means an electronic means that the addressee nominates to
       the person giving or serving the document as the means by
       which the addressee may be notified that such a document
       has been served on the addressee;

    “email address” means the last email address given by the
       addressee concerned as the email address for the service of
       documents under this Act;

    “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
       place of residence in Singapore.

                                                              [38/2018]

Rules

 44.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make rules for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may, with the
approval of the Minister, make rules for or with respect to the
following matters:

       (a) the manner of appointment, conduct and discipline and the
            terms and conditions of service of the officers and
            employees of the Authority;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        62

(b) the payment of gratuities and other benefits to officers and
     employees of the Authority;

          (c) the fees to be charged in respect of anything done or any
              services rendered by the Authority under or by virtue of
              this Act, including but not limited to —

          (i) fees in respect of surveys or searches of maps, plans
              and other documents made or maintained by the
              Authority;

          (ii) fees in respect of the sale or copying of maps, plans
               or other documents made or maintained by the
               Authority; and

          (iii) fees in respect of the supply of information
                maintained by the Authority in relation to its
                functions.

                             FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 5(2)

           CONSTITUTION AND PROCEEDINGS OF AUTHORITY

Appointment of Chairperson and other members

 1.—(1) The Chairperson and other members of the Authority under section 5
must be appointed by the Minister from among persons who have had experience
in public administration or matters relating to land transport.

 (2) The Minister may appoint one of the members to be the Deputy Chairperson;
and the Deputy Chairperson so appointed may, subject to such directions as may
be given by the Chairperson, exercise all or any of the powers exercisable by the
Chairperson under this Act.

 (3) The Minister may appoint the Chief Executive to be a member of the
Authority.

Tenure of office of members

 2. A member holds office on such terms and conditions and for such period as
the Minister may determine, and is eligible for re‑appointment.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                   Land Transport Authority of

63                 Singapore Act 1995                         2020 Ed.

                   FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Temporary members

 3. The Minister may appoint any person to be a temporary member of the
Authority during the temporary incapacity from illness or otherwise, or during the
temporary absence from Singapore, of any member.

Revocation of appointment

 4. The Minister may, at any time, revoke the appointment of the Chairperson or
any member without giving any reason.

Resignation

 5. Any member may resign from his or her appointment at any time by giving
written notice to the Minister.

Chairperson may delegate functions

 6. The Chairperson may, by instrument in writing, authorise any member to
exercise any power or perform any function conferred on the Chairperson by or
under this Act.

Vacation of office

 7. The office of a member becomes vacant —

        (a) on the member’s death;

        (b) if the member, without sufficient cause (the sufficiency of the cause to
             be decided by the Authority) fails to attend 3 consecutive meetings of
             the Authority; or

        (c) if the member becomes in any manner disqualified from membership
             of the Authority.

Filling of vacancies

 8. If a member dies, resigns or has his or her appointment revoked or otherwise
vacates his or her office before the expiry of the term for which he or she has been
appointed, the Minister may appoint a person to fill the vacancy for the remainder
of the term for which the vacating member was appointed.

Disqualification from membership

 9. A person must not be appointed or continue to hold office as a member if he or
she —

        (a) is an undischarged bankrupt or has made any arrangement with his or
             her creditors; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        64

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

(b) has been sentenced to imprisonment for a term of 6 months or more
     and has not received a free pardon.

Salaries, etc., payable to members of Authority

 10. There are to be paid to the members out of the funds of the Authority such
salaries, fees and allowances as the Minister may determine.

Meetings of Authority

 11.—(1) The Authority is to meet for the despatch of business at the times and
places that the Chairperson may appoint.

 (2) The quorum at every meeting of the Authority is one‑third of the total
number of members or 3 members, whichever is the higher.

 (3) A decision at a meeting of the Authority is to be adopted by a simple majority
of the members present and voting except that in the case of an equality of votes
the Chairperson or member presiding has a casting vote in addition to his or her
original vote.

 (4) The Chairperson or in his or her absence the Deputy Chairperson presides at
meetings of the Authority.

 (5) Where both the Chairperson and the Deputy Chairperson are absent at a
meeting, such member as the Chairperson appoints as an acting Chairperson
presides at that meeting.

Vacancies
 12. The Authority may act despite any vacancy in its membership.

Procedure at meetings

 13. Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, the Authority may make rules to regulate its own procedure generally,
and in particular, regarding the holding and proceedings of meetings, the notice to
be given of the meetings, the keeping of minutes and the custody, production and
inspection of the minutes.

Validity of proceedings

 14. The validity of any proceedings of the Authority is not affected by any defect
in the appointment of any member.

                                                                                                 [25/2009; 5/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

65  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                     Sections 6(1) and 12(1)(a)

         REVENUE OF LAND TRANSPORT REVENUE ACCOUNT
1. The following fees imposed under the Parking Places Act 1974:

       (a) a fee for the grant or renewal of a licence to maintain or operate a
            private parking place;

        (b) a fee for the issue of a vehicle parking certificate.

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

 2. All fees for the grant, issue or renewal of a licence to operate the railway or
any part of the railway under the Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995.

 3. All fees under section 10 of the Road Traffic Act 1961 for the registration of a
vehicle.

 4. All fees for the grant, issue, renewal or replacement of —

        (a) a visitor’s permit mentioned in the Road Traffic (Motor Vehicles,
             Registration and Licensing) Rules;

        (b) a general licence mentioned in section 28 of the Road Traffic Act 1961;

        (c) any public service vehicle licence mentioned in section 102 of the
             Road Traffic Act 1961;

        (d) a vocational licence mentioned in section 110 of the Road Traffic
             Act 1961; and

        (e) a licence under the Road Traffic (ASEAN Member
             Country‑Registered Goods and Public Service Vehicles Licensing)
             Rules.

 5. All fees for the inspection of a vehicle under section 87 of the Road Traffic
Act 1961.

 6. All fees for the assignment and sealing of identification marks on any vehicle
under the Road Traffic (Motor Vehicles, Registration and Licensing) Rules.

 7. [Deleted as obsolete]

 8. The fees for the following, excluding additional transfer fees:

    (a) the transfer of a certificate of entitlement under the Road Traffic
         (Motor Vehicles, Quota System) Rules;

    (b) the transfer of the residual value of any certificate of entitlement under
         the Road Traffic (Motor Vehicles, Quota System) Rules;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        66

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

(c) the transfer of the benefit of any rebate on the additional registration
    fee under the Road Traffic (Motor Vehicles, Registration and
    Licensing) Rules;

(d) the transfer of a motor vehicle under the Road Traffic (Motor Vehicles,
     Registration and Licensing) Rules.

 9. All conversion fees under the Road Traffic (Motor Vehicles, Registration and
Licensing) Rules for registering a private motor car as an off‑peak car.

 10. All fees relating to an appeal under the Road Traffic (Motor Vehicles, Test)
Rules against any refusal of a test certificate.

 11. [Deleted by Act 25 of 2020]

 12. All fees for the towing and transportation of vehicles seized under a warrant
under section 30 of the Road Traffic Act 1961.

 13. All fees for the replacement of a licence, permit, certificate or a registration
book or card issued under those provisions of the Road Traffic Act 1961, or any
rules made under that Act, which falls under the purview of the Minister charged
with the responsibility for transport.

 14. All fees for furnishing a copy of or an extract from a vocational licence or for
conducting a search or furnishing a copy of an extract from any register relating to
a motor vehicle.

 15. All fees for the grant of an exemption under section 142 of the Road Traffic
Act 1961.

 16. All performance bonds, guarantees or security deposits furnished and
forfeited in connection with any of the following:

(a) a general licence issued under the Road Traffic (Motor Vehicles,
     Registration and Licensing) Rules;

(b) a licence under the Shared Mobility Enterprises (Control and
     Licensing) Act 2020;

       (c) a licence under the Point‑to‑Point Passenger Transport Industry
           Act 2019;

                                                                             [Act 43 of 2022 wef 08/12/2023]

      (d) a licence under the Electric Vehicles Charging Act 2022.

                                                                             [Act 43 of 2022 wef 08/12/2023]

17. [Deleted by Act 25 of 2020]

18. [Deleted by Act 25 of 2020]

 19. All fees for the issue of any notice of demand or warrant of attachment under
the Street Works Act 1995.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                                Land Transport Authority of

67                              Singapore Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

                                SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

 20. All charges for the conduct of any tests on any private street with a view to
declaring it as a public street under the Street Works Act 1995.

 21. All fees, costs and charges prescribed under section 140(2)(p) of the Road
Traffic Act 1961 that are payable to the Authority.

 22. All fees and charges prescribed under the Electric Vehicles Charging Act
2022.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2022 wef 08/12/2023]

 23. [Deleted by Act 20 of 2019]

 23A. All fees and charges prescribed under the Shared Mobility Enterprises
(Control and Licensing) Act 2020.

24. All fees payable under the Active Mobility Act 2017.

 25. All fees prescribed under the Point‑to‑Point Passenger Transport Industry
Act 2019.

 26. All fees and charges prescribed under the Small Motorised Vehicles (Safety)
Act 2020.

                                                  [24/2010; 11/2012; 17/2015; 3/2017; 24/2018; 20/2019;
                                                                                                  8/2020; 25/2020]

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

                                THIRD SCHEDULE

                                [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

                                FOURTH SCHEDULE

                                                                     Sections 20, 22(1) and (4) and 22A

                                     COMPENSATION
                                            PART 1

      Losses for which          Basis on which compensation  Persons who may claim      Period within which the claim
    compensation may be                is to be assessed     compensation for their         must be served on the

            claimed                                              respective losses        Authority or other person

    1.(a) The loss due to       (a)(i) A displacement        (a) Any person             (a) Before the end of
           displacement                payment.                   owning a                   2 years from the
           resulting from the                                     compensatable              date on which the
           exercise of the        (ii) All reasonable             interest in the land       notice is issued
           Authority’s right           expenses incurred          on the date on             under section 5(2)
           under section 5 of          in removing from           which the notice is        of the Rapid
           the Rapid Transit           the land or                issued under               Transit Systems
           Systems Act 1995            building,                  section 5(2) of the        Act 1995,
           or section 9 of the         including but not          Rapid Transit              section 8(3) of the
                                       limited to the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                            Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.                    Singapore Act 1995                                   68

                            FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

  Losses for which          Basis on which compensation  Persons who may claim   Period within which the claim
compensation may be                is to be assessed     compensation for their      must be served on the

        claimed                                              respective losses     Authority or other person

          Street Works      reasonable cost of           Systems                 Cross‑Border
          Act 1995, or the  renovating                   Act 1995,               Railways
          Authority’s or    alternative                  section 8(3) of the     Act 2018 or
          concessionaire’s  premises for                 Cross‑Border            section 9(2) of the
          right under       occupation during            Railways                Street Works
          section 8 of the  the period of                Act 2018 or             Act 1995, as the
          Cross‑Border      displacement.                section 9(2) of the     case may be.
          Railways                                       Street Works
          Act 2018.                                      Act 1995, as the
                                                         case may be.

(b) Any other damage        (b)(i) The amount that       (b) Same as in          (b) Before the end of
     to the land or a              is, or might be,           item (a) above.         6 years starting
     building resulting            fairly and                                         from the date on
     from the exercise             reasonably                                         which the railway
     of any power in               incurred in                                        to which the
     section 5 of the              repairing the                                      notice under
     Rapid Transit                 damage.                                            section 5 of the
     Systems                                                                          Rapid Transit
     Act 1995,                (ii) The share in the                                   Systems Act 1995,
     section 8 of the              responsibility for                                 or the cross‑border
     Cross‑Border                  the loss or damage                                 railway to which
     Railways                      attributable to or                                 the notice under
     Act 2018 or                   connected with                                     section 8 of the
     section 9 of the              any power in                                       Cross‑Border
     Street Works                  section 5 of the                                   Railways
     Act 1995.                     Rapid Transit                                      Act 2018, relates
                                   Systems                                            is opened or
                                   Act 1995,                                          re‑opened for use
                                   section 8 of the                                   by the public, or
                                   Cross‑Border                                       the street, road
                                   Railways                                           structure or
                                   Act 2018 or                                        road‑related
                                   section 9 of the                                   facility to which
                                   Street Works                                       the notice under
                                   Act 1995.                                          section 9(2) of the
                                                                                      Street Works
                                                                                      Act 1995 relates is
                                                                                      opened or
                                                                                      re‑opened for use
                                                                                      by the public.

2.(a) Structural damage     (a) The amount which         (a) Any person          (a) Before the end of
       to any building           is, or might be,             owning a                6 years from the
       resulting from the        fairly and                   compensatable           date of the
       construction or           reasonably                   interest in the         opening for public
       operation of the          incurred in                  damaged building.       traffic of that
       railway or the            repairing the                                        portion of the
       construction of a         damage.                                              railway or road
       road tunnel under                                                              tunnel (as the case
       the Street Works                                                               may be) from
       Act 1995.                                                                      which the damage
                                                                                      is alleged to have
                                                                                      resulted.

(b) The loss due to         (b)(i) A displacement        (b) Same as in          (b) Same as in
     displacement                  payment.                   item (a) above.         item (a) above.
     resulting from

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                                Land Transport Authority of

69                              Singapore Act 1995                                   2020 Ed.

                                FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

      Losses for which          Basis on which compensation  Persons who may claim   Period within which the claim
    compensation may be                is to be assessed     compensation for their      must be served on the

            claimed                                              respective losses     Authority or other person

    structural damage           (ii) All reasonable
    mentioned in                     expenses incurred
    item (a) above.                  in removing from
                                     the land or
                                     building,
                                     including but not
                                     limited to the
                                     reasonable cost of
                                     renovating
                                     alternative
                                     premises for
                                     occupation during
                                     the period of
                                     displacement.

    3. Damage to any            The amount which             Any person              Before the end of
       land or building         is, or might be,             owning a                one year from the
       resulting from the       fairly and                   compensatable           date of completion
       exercise of any          reasonably                   interest in the land    of the work
       power contained          incurred in                  or damaged              carried out under
       in section 9 of the      repairing the                building.               section 9 of the
       Rapid Transit            damage.                                              Rapid Transit
       Systems                                               The person on           Systems Act 1995,
       Act 1995,                                             whom the notice         section 10 of the
       section 10 of the                                     under section 10        Cross‑Border
       Cross‑Border                                          of the Rapid            Railways
       Railways                                              Transit Systems         Act 2018 or
       Act 2018 or                                           Act 1995,               section 12 of the
       section 12 of the                                     section 11 of the       Street Works
       Street Works                                          Cross‑Border            Act 1995 (as the
       Act 1995.                                             Railways                case may be) from
                                                             Act 2018 or             which the damage
       4. The cost of                The cost which is       section 29 of the       or loss is alleged
           altering the course       fairly and              Street Works            to have resulted.
           or position of any        reasonably              Act 1995, as the
           apparatus and of          incurred in             case may be, is         Before the end of
           repairing any             effecting such          served.                 one year from the
           street surface            alteration and                                  completion of the
           pursuant to a             repair.                                         alteration and
           notice served                                                             repair.
           under section 10     (a) The cost incurred
           of the Rapid              in moving the           (a) The person on       (a) Before the end of
           Transit Systems           object or structure          whom the notice         one year from the
           Act 1995,                                              under section 11        date of removal.
           section 11 of the
           Cross‑Border
           Railways
           Act 2018 or
           section 29 of the
           Street Works
           Act 1995.

    5.(a) The cost of the
           removal of any
           object or structure

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                             Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.                     Singapore Act 1995                                    70

                             FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

  Losses for which           Basis on which compensation  Persons who may claim    Period within which the claim
compensation may be                 is to be assessed     compensation for their       must be served on the

        claimed                                               respective losses      Authority or other person

          pursuant to a      and making good              of the Rapid
          notice served      that part of the             Transit Systems
          under section 11   land or building             Act 1995,
          of the Rapid       from which it is             section 12 of the
          Transit Systems    removed.                     Cross‑Border
          Act 1995,                                       Railways
          section 12 of the                               Act 2018 or
          Cross‑Border                                    section 13 of the
          Railways                                        Street Works
          Act 2018 or                                     Act 1995 (as the
          section 13 of the                               case may be) is
          Street Works                                    served.
          Act 1995 and
          which was erected
          and maintained
          without the
          contravention of
          any written law.

(b) The cost of              (b) The cost incurred        (b) Same as in           (b) Before the end of
     reinstating an               in reinstating or            item (a) above.          one year from the
     object or a                  replacing the                                         date of
     structure                    object or                                             reinstatement or
     described in                 structure.                                            replacement.
     item (a) above or
     of replacing the
     same with a
     similar object or
     structure.

(c) The loss sustained       (c) The amount which         (c) Any person           (c) Before the end of
    by the removal of            might fairly and             owning a share or        one year from the
    an object or a               reasonably be                interest in the          date of removal.
    structure which              estimated as the             object or structure
    was erected and              cost of reinstating          on the date on
    maintained                   or replacing the             which it is
    without the                  object or                    removed under
    contravention of             structure.                   section 11(4) of
    any written law                                           the Rapid Transit
    and is not to be                                          Systems
    reinstated or                                             Act 1995,
    replaced with a                                           section 12(4) of
    similar object or                                         the Cross‑Border
    structure at the                                          Railways
    expense of the                                            Act 2018 or
    Authority under                                           section 13(4) of
    item (b) above.                                           the Street Works
                                                              Act 1995, as the
                                                              case may be.

                             PART 2

General effect of this Part

 1. The provisions in this Part, where applicable, have effect for the purpose of
assessing compensation under Part 1.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                Land Transport Authority of

71              Singapore Act 1995                              2020 Ed.

                FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

Definitions applicable to Part 1

2. In Part 1 —

    “compensatable interest” means the estate or interest of —

    (a) a person having an unexpired term in land (including any
         further term which could be obtained as of right) of not less than
         one month or a tenancy or sub‑tenancy terminable (by virtue of
         any written law or otherwise) by either party by giving not less
         than one month’s notice;

    (b) a mortgagee in possession;

    (c) the holder of a valid and subsisting option to purchase an
        interest referred to in paragraph (a) or (d); or

    (d) a purchaser under an agreement for sale and purchase to whom
         the benefit of an interest referred to in paragraph (a) or (c) has
         already passed;

    “displacement” means the displacement of a person from land, whether the
       displacement is temporary or permanent;

    “displacement payment” means a sum equal to the financial loss naturally
       and reasonably resulting from the displacement of a person from the land.

No account of certain financial loss or increase or decrease in value
attributable to railway

 3. In the assessment of compensation, no account is to be taken of —

        (a) the financial loss resulting from the interruption of or interference with
             any trade or business carried on any land; and

        (b) any increase or decrease in the value of land to which the
             compensation relates which is attributable to —

                  (i) the delineation of the land under section 3 of the Rapid Transit
                      Systems Act 1995 or section 5 of the Cross‑Border Railways
                      Act 2018 (as the case may be) as part of the railway area; or

                 (ii) the construction or operation of any railway or road.

Refusal or reduction where Building Control Act 1989 contravened

 4. Compensation may be refused or reduced in respect of any building or part of
a building which has been constructed or modified or on which building works
have been carried out so as to amount to a contravention of the Building Control
Act 1989 within the meaning of that Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        72

          FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

Compensation where damage results only partly from railway

 5. The compensation assessed under item 2 or 3 of Part 1 is reduced to such
extent as the Compensation Board thinks just and equitable having regard to the
share in the responsibility for the loss or damage not attributable to and connected
with the railway or tunnel.

No compensation under item 5(c) of Part 1 for loss of advertising

 6. Where a sign advertising any business, product, service or activity is removed
under section 11(4) of the Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995 or section 12(4) of the
Cross‑Border Railways Act 2018 (as the case may be), nothing in item 5(c) of
Part 1 is to be construed as conferring upon any person a right to compensation for
the loss of any benefit which might have accrued to the person from the
advertising of that business, product, service or activity if the sign had not been
removed.

Claim by a mortgagee in possession

 7. Where under this Act a claim for compensation may be made by a mortgagee
in possession any compensation received by a mortgagee in possession must be
applied by the mortgagee as if it were proceeds of sale of the mortgage security.

Compensation payable to person within or outside railway area

 8. The compensation referred to in item 2 or 3 of Part 1 may be paid to any
person owning a compensatable interest in land situated within or outside the
railway area.

                                                                              [7/97; 6/2004; 12/2015; 21/2018]

                             FIFTH SCHEDULE

                                                                          Sections 11(8), 39(1) and (4), 40 and
                                                                                                                 43(8)

                                     SPECIFIED ACTS

                                            PART 1

 1. Section 17 of the Customs Act 1960.

 2. Section 3 of the Motor Vehicles (Third‑Party Risks and Compensation)
Act 1960 and rules 9 and 10 of the Motor Vehicles (Third‑Party Risks and
Compensation) Rules.

 3. All provisions of the Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995 and any subsidiary
legislation made under that Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Land Transport Authority of

73  Singapore Act 1995                                        2020 Ed.

    FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

 4. All provisions of the Cross‑Border Railways Act 2018 and any subsidiary
legislation made under that Act.

 5. All provisions of the Road Traffic Act 1961 and any subsidiary legislation
made under that Act which are carried out or administered by the Authority,
and —

    (a) section 120(3) of that Act — in relation to a contravention of any
         traffic sign prohibiting or restricting the parking, stopping or waiting of
         vehicles on roads; and

    (b) section 143(8) of that Act — in relation to a failure to comply with any
         condition imposed by the Authority on a permit granted under that
         section.

6. The following subsidiary legislation made under the Road Traffic Act 1961:

    (a) rules 10, 22, 24, 24A, 24B, 25, 26B, 26C and 28 of the Road Traffic
         Rules;

    (aa) rule 5 of the Road Traffic (Bicycles, Three-wheeled Pedal Cycles,
          Trishaws and Recumbent Devices — Construction and Use)
          Rules 2024 (G.N. No. S 157/2024);

                                                                               [S 177/2024 wef 01/03/2024]

     (b) rules 8 and 9 of the Road Traffic (Expressway Traffic) Rules;

    (c) rules 9 and 10 of the Road Traffic (Pedestrian Crossings) Rules; and

        (d) rules 8 and 8A of the Road Traffic (Traffic Signs) Rules.

                                                                                  [S 1007/2024 wef 27/12/2024]

 7. All provisions of the Street Works Act 1995 and any subsidiary legislation
made under that Act.

 8. Sections 41, 24C (repealed by section 18 of the Public Transport Council
(Amendment) Act 2015), 54, 56 and 57 of the Public Transport Council Act 1987.

    PART 2

 1. All provisions of the Energy Conservation Act 2012 and any subsidiary
legislation made under that Act carried out or administered by the Authority.

 2. All provisions of the Point‑to‑Point Passenger Transport Industry Act 2019
and any subsidiary legislation made under that Act.

 3. Sections 11 and 22 of the Bus Services Industry Act 2015, and all provisions
of Parts 4A, 5, 5A and 7A of that Act and any regulations made under that Act for
the purposes of Part 4A, 5, 5A or 7A of that Act.

                                                                                    [S 664/2026 wef 23/09/2026]

 4. All provisions of the Active Mobility Act 2017 and its subsidiary legislation.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Land Transport Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1995                                        74

          FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

 5. All provisions of the Shared Mobility Enterprises (Control and Licensing)
Act 2020 and any regulations made under that Act for the purposes of that Act.

 6. All provisions of the Small Motorised Vehicles (Safety) Act 2020 and any
regulations made under that Act for the purposes of that Act.

 7. All provisions of the Parking Places Act 1974 and any subsidiary legislation
made under that Act.

 8. All provisions of the Electric Vehicles Charging Act 2022 and any subsidiary
legislation made under that Act for the purposes of that Act.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2022 wef 08/12/2023]

                                                  [37/2005; 17/2015; 3/2017; 21/2018; 24/2018; 20/2019;
                                                     8/2020; 25/2020; S 590/2004; S 63/2006; S 301/2008;
                                                           S 630/2010; S 310/2012; S 80/2016; S 151/2016;
                                                                                                         S 364/2016]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                   LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

           LAND TRANSPORT AUTHORITY OF
                    SINGAPORE ACT 1995

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 28 of 1995 — Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995

Bill           : 24/1995

First Reading  : 7 July 1995

Second and Third Readings : 7 August 1995

Commencement   : 1 September 1995

2. G.N. No. S 382/1995 — Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act
                                   (Amendment of Fifth Schedule) Order 1995

Commencement   : 1 September 1995

3. 1996 Revised Edition — Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act
                                    (Chapter 158A)

Operation      : 30 April 1996

4. Act 7 of 1997 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1997
   (Amendments made by section 8 read with item (1) of the Third Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill           : 6/1997

First Reading  : 11 July 1997

Second and Third Readings : 25 August 1997

Commencement   : 1 October 1997 (section 8 read with
                     item (1) of the Third Schedule)

5. Act 5 of 2002 — Statutory Corporations (Capital Contribution) Act 2002
   (Amendments made by section 3 read with item (20) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill           : 7/2002

First Reading  : 3 May 2002

Second and Third Readings : 24 May 2002

Commencement   : 15 July 2002 (section 3 read with
                     item (20) of the Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
               ii

6. Act 6 of 2004 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2004
   (Amendments made by section 5 of the above Act)

Bill           : 4/2004

First Reading  : 5 January 2004

Second and Third Readings : 6 February 2004

Commencement   : 8 March 2004 (section 5)

7. G.N. No. S 590/2004 — Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act
                                   (Amendment of Fifth Schedule) Order 2004

Commencement   : 24 September 2004

8. Act 45 of 2004 — Trustees (Amendment) Act 2004
   (Amendments made by section 25(4) read with item (24) of the Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill           : 43/2004

First Reading  : 21 September 2004

Second and Third Readings : 19 October 2004

Commencement   : 15 December 2004 (section 25(4) read
                     with item (24) of the Schedule)

9. G.N. No. S 63/2006 — Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act
                                 (Amendment of Fifth Schedule) Order 2006

Commencement   : 1 February 2006

10. Act 37 of 2005 — Public Transport Council (Amendment) Act 2005
     (Amendments made by section 23 of the above Act)

Bill           : 25/2005

First Reading  : 19 September 2005

Second and Third Readings : 17 October 2005

Commencement   : 3 April 2006 (section 23)

11. Act 11 of 2007 — Land Transport Authority of Singapore (Amendment)
                            Act 2007

Bill           : 23/2006

First Reading  : 8 November 2006

Second and Third Readings : 23 January 2007

Commencement   : 1 March 2007

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                iii

12. G.N. No. S 301/2008 — Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act
                                    (Amendment of Fifth Schedule) Order 2008

Commencement    : 1 July 2008

13. Act 25 of 2009 — Quorums of Statutory Boards (Miscellaneous
                             Amendments) Act 2009

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 8 of the Schedule to the above
     Act)

Bill            : 19/2009

First Reading   : 14 September 2009

Second and Third Readings : 19 October 2009

Commencement    : 15 January 2010 (section 2 read with
                      item 8 of the Schedule)

14. Act 21 of 2010 — Rapid Transit Systems (Amendment) Act 2010
     (Amendments made by section 17 of the above Act)

Bill            : 16/2010

First Reading   : 19 July 2010

Second and Third Readings : 16 August 2010

Commencement    : 13 September 2010 (section 17)

15. G.N. No. S 630/2010 — Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act
                                    (Amendment of Fifth Schedule) Order 2010

Commencement    : 1 November 2010

16. Act 24 of 2010 — Road Traffic (Amendment) Act 2010
     (Amendments made by section 21 of the above Act)

Bill            : 18/2010

First Reading   : 16 August 2010

Second and Third Readings : 15 September 2010

Commencement    : 1 November 2010 (section 21)

17. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 58 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill            : 11/2010

First Reading   : 26 April 2010

Second Reading  : 18 May 2010

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                iv

Third Reading   : 19 May 2010

Commencement    : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                      item 58 of the Sixth Schedule)

18. Act 11 of 2012 — Energy Conservation Act 2012
     (Amendments made by section 80(2) read with item 2 of the Second Schedule
     to the above Act)

Bill            : 8/2012

First Reading   : 8 March 2012

Second and Third Readings : 9 April 2012

Commencement    : 1 July 2012 (section 80(2) read with
                      item 2 of the Second Schedule)

19. G.N. No. S 310/2012 — Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act
                                    (Amendment of Fifth Schedule) Order 2012

Commencement    : 1 July 2012

20. Act 17 of 2012 — Land Transport Authority of Singapore (Amendment)
                            Act 2012

Bill            : 15/2012

First Reading   : 14 May 2012

Second Reading  : 9 July 2012

Third Reading   : 10 July 2012

Commencement    : 12 September 2012

21. Act 5 of 2014 — Subordinate Courts (Amendment) Act 2014
     (Amendments made by section 11(3) of the above Act)

Bill            : 26/2013

First Reading   : 11 November 2013

Second and Third Readings : 21 January 2014

Commencement    : 7 March 2014 (section 11(3))

22. Act 12 of 2015 — Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act 2015
     (Amendments made by section 10 of the above Act)

Bill            : 7/2015

First Reading   : 12 February 2015

Second and Third Readings : 13 March 2015

Commencement    : 8 May 2015 (section 10)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
               v

23. Act 17 of 2015 — Third-Party Taxi Booking Service Providers Act 2015
     (Amendments made by section 33 of the above Act)

Bill           : 14/2015

First Reading  : 13 April 2015

Second and Third Readings : 11 May 2015

Commencement   : 1 September 2015 (section 33)

24. Act 30 of 2015 — Bus Services Industry Act 2015
     (Amendments made by section 52 of the above Act)

Bill           : 26/2015

First Reading  : 13 July 2015

Second and Third Readings : 18 August 2015

Commencement   : 22 January 2016 (section 52)

25. G.N. No. S 80/2016 — Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act
                                   (Amendment of Fifth Schedule) Order 2016

Commencement   : 29 February 2016

26. Act 31 of 2015 — Public Transport Council (Amendment) Act 2015
     (Amendments made by section 24 of the above Act)

Bill           : 27/2015

First Reading  : 13 July 2015

Second and Third Readings : 18 August 2015

Commencement   : 1 April 2016 (section 24)

27. G.N. No. S 151/2016 — Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act
                                    (Amendment of Fifth Schedule) (No. 2)
                                    Order 2016

Commencement   : 4 April 2016

28. G.N. No. S 364/2016 — Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act
                                    (Amendment of Fifth Schedule) (No. 3)
                                    Order 2016

Commencement   : 29 July 2016

29. Act 3 of 2017 — Active Mobility Act 2017
     (Amendments made by section 68 of the above Act)

Bill           : 40/2016

First Reading  : 9 November 2016

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                      vi

Second Reading        : 10 January 2017

Notice of Amendments  : 10 January 2017

Third Reading         : 10 January 2017

Commencement          : 20 June 2017 (section 68(a), (b) and
                            (c))
                            1 May 2018 (section 68(d) to (h))

30. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 76 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2017

First Reading         : 6 November 2017

Second Reading        : 8 January 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 8 January 2018

Third Reading         : 8 January 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 76)

31. Act 24 of 2018 — Parking Places (Amendment) Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 19 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 18/2018

First Reading         : 5 March 2018

Second Reading        : 20 March 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 20 March 2018

Third Reading         : 20 March 2018

Commencement          : 1 May 2018 (section 19(d))
                            8 May 2018 (section 19(a), (b)
                            and (c))

32. Act 38 of 2018 — Land Transport (Enforcement Measures) Act 2018
     (Amendments made by Part 3 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 29/2018

First Reading         : 6 August 2018

Second and Third Readings : 10 September 2018

Commencement          : 2 January 2019 (sections 38 and 39)
                            3 June 2019 (section 40)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                         vii

33. Act 49 of 2018 — Land Transport Authority of Singapore (Amendment)
                            Act 2018

Bill                     : 41/2018

First Reading            : 1 October 2018

Second and Third Readings : 19 November 2018

Commencement             : 15 January 2019

34. Act 20 of 2019 — Point-to-Point Passenger Transport Industry Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 56 of the above Act)

Bill                     : 14/2019

First Reading            : 8 July 2019

Second and Third Readings : 6 August 2019

Commencement             : 29 May 2020 (section 56)

35. Act 8 of 2020 — Shared Mobility Enterprises (Control and Licensing)
                           Act 2020

     (Amendments made by section 50 of the above Act)

Bill                     : 2/2020

First Reading            : 6 January 2020

Second and Third Readings : 4 February 2020

Commencement             : 22 July 2020 (section 50)

36. Act 21 of 2018 — Cross-Border Railways Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 78 of the above Act)

Bill                     : 43/2017

First Reading            : 3 October 2017

Second Reading           : 6 November 2017

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 13 of 2018

Third Reading            : 19 March 2018

Commencement             : 14 September 2020 (section 78(1)(a),
                               (b), (e), (f) and (g) and (2), (3) and (4))

37. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 84 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                     : 32/2019

First Reading            : 7 October 2019

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                      viii

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 84 of the Schedule)

38. Act 25 of 2020 — Small Motorised Vehicles (Safety) Act 2020
     (Amendments made by section 29 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 21/2020

First Reading         : 4 May 2020

Second and Third Readings : 26 May 2020

Commencement          : 1 April 2021 (section 29(c) and (d))
                            28 June 2021 (section 29(a), (b)
                            and (f))

39. Act 13 of 2021 — Land Transport Authority of Singapore (Amendment)
                            Act 2021

Bill                  : 9/2021

First Reading         : 5 April 2021

Second and Third Readings : 11 May 2021

Commencement          : 29 July 2021

40. 2020 Revised Edition — Land Transport Authority of
                                     Singapore Act 1995

Operation             : 31 December 2021

41. G.N. No. S 94/2022 — Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act
                                   (Amendment of Fifth Schedule) Order 2022

Commencement          : 16 February 2022

42. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022

Bill                  : 24/2022

First Reading         : 12 September 2022

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 2022

Commencement          : 1 November 2022 (section 11(1))

43. Act 43 of 2022 — Electric Vehicles Charging Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 36/2022

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                      ix

First Reading         : 9 November 2022

Second and Third Readings : 30 November 2022

Commencement          : 8 December 2023

44. Act 36 of 2018 — Transport Safety Investigations Act 2018

Bill                  : 28/2018

First Reading         : 10 July 2018

Second and Third Readings : 6 August 2018

Commencement          : 1 January 2024

45. G.N. No. S 177/2024 — Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995
                                   (Amendment of Fifth Schedule) Order 2024

Date of commencement  : 1 March 2024

46. G.N. No. S 1007/2024 — Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act
                                      1995 (Amendment of Fifth Schedule) (No. 2)
                                      Order 2024

Date of commencement  : 27 December 2024

47. Act 5 of 2026 — Land Transport and Related Matters Act 2026
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 1/2026

First Reading         : 12 January 2026

Second and Third Readings : 4 February 2026

Commencement          : 27 February 2026
                            1 June 2026

48. G.N. No. S 664/2026 — Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995
                                   (Amendment of Fifth Schedule) Order 2026

Date of commencement  : 23 September 2026

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
.                                 x
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
         COMPARATIVE TABLE

LAND TRANSPORT AUTHORITY OF
         SINGAPORE ACT 1995

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    1996 Ed.
6—(2)                      6—(1A)

   (3)                        (1B)
   (4)                        (2)
   (5)                        (3)
[Omitted as spent]         7—(5)
—                          8—(3) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
22A—(2)                    22A—(1A)
   (3)                        (2)
[Omitted as spent]         26—(13)
27—(2) and (3)             27—(2)
39—(2)                     39—(1A)
   (3)                        (1B)
   (4)                        (1C)
   (5)                        (2)
   (6)                        (3)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
