 THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE INDEPENDENCE ACT 1965

                                               2020 REVISED EDITION

                    This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
         including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                               Prepared and Published by
                                       THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                            UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                              THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                                         2020 Ed.

Republic of Singapore Independence
                Act 1965

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
     1.
     2.  Short title and commencement
     3.  Interpretation
     4.  Transfer of sovereignty and jurisdiction
     5.  Exercise of executive powers
     6.  Transfer of legislative powers
         Continuance in force of provisions of the Constitution of
     7.  Malaysia and exercise of powers thereunder
     8.  Official languages and national language
     9.  Grant of pardon
         Transfer of property and succession to rights, liabilities and
   10.   obligations
   11.   Transfer of Singapore officers
         Temporary provision as to jurisdiction and procedure of
   12.   Singapore Courts
   13.   Appointment to statutory boards, etc.
   14.   Existing laws
         Saving

An Act to make provision for the Government of Singapore
  consequent on her becoming an independent and sovereign
  republic separate from and independent of Malaysia.

                                                               [9 August 1965]

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act may be cited as the Republic of Singapore
Independence Act 1965 and shall be deemed to have come into
operation on the 9th day of August 1965 (hereinafter in this Act
referred to as “Singapore Day”).

         1

                                                  31.12.2021
                Republic of Singapore

2               Independence Act 1965  2020 Ed.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless it is otherwise provided or the context
otherwise requires —

   “Head of State” means the President of Singapore;
   “Legislature” or “Legislature of Singapore” means the President

      and the Parliament of Singapore;

   “Singapore” means the Republic of Singapore.

Transfer of sovereignty and jurisdiction

 3. The Yang di-Pertuan Agong of Malaysia shall with effect from
Singapore Day cease to be the Supreme Head of Singapore and his
sovereignty and jurisdiction and power and authority, executive or
otherwise, in respect of Singapore shall be relinquished and shall vest
in the Head of State.

Exercise of executive powers

 4. The executive authority of Singapore shall, on and after
Singapore Day, be vested in the Head of State and shall be
exercisable by him or by the Cabinet or by any Minister authorised
by the Cabinet.

Transfer of legislative powers

 5. The legislative powers of the Yang di-Pertuan Agong and of the
Parliament of Malaysia shall on Singapore Day cease to extend to
Singapore and shall be transferred so as to vest in the Head of State
and in the Legislature of Singapore respectively.

Continuance in force of provisions of the Constitution of
Malaysia and exercise of powers thereunder

 6.—(1) The provisions of the Constitution of Malaysia, other than
those set out in subsection (3), shall continue in force in Singapore
subject to such modifications, adaptations and qualifications and
exceptions as may be necessary to bring them into conformity with
the independent status of Singapore upon separation from Malaysia.
          Republic of Singapore

2020 Ed.  Independence Act 1965                 3

 (2) The provisions of the Constitution of Malaysia referred to in
subsection (1) may in their application to Singapore be amended by
the Legislature.

 (3) The following provisions of the Constitution of Malaysia shall
cease to have effect in Singapore:

      Part I; Article 13; Articles 14 to 18; Article 19A; Article 22;
Articles 28 and 28A; Articles 30, 30A and 30B; Part IV; Part V;
Part VI; Part VII; Part VIII; Articles 133 and 134; Article 139;
Articles 141 to 143; Articles 146A to 148; Part XII; Part XIII;
Part XIV; The Third, Fourth, Fifth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth,
Eleventh and Thirteenth Schedules.

 (4) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of
sections 3, 4 and 5, the powers conferred by the provisions of the
Constitution of Malaysia continued in force under the provisions of
subsection (1) shall be exercised on and after Singapore Day as
follows:

(a) the powers of the Yang di-Pertuan Agong shall be
     exercised by the President;

(b) the powers of the Federal Government shall be exercised
     by the Government of Singapore;

          (c) the powers of the Federal Legislature shall be exercised by
              the Legislature of Singapore;

(d) the powers of the Prime Minister of Malaysia shall be
     exercised by the Prime Minister of Singapore;

          (e) the powers of a Minister of Malaysia shall be exercised by
              the corresponding Minister in Singapore or by such
              Minister as may be designated by the Prime Minister of
              Singapore;

          (f) the powers of the Judicial and Legal Service Commission
              shall be exercised by a Legal Service Commission which
              shall consist of the following persons:

          (i) the Chief Justice, as President;

          (ii) the Attorney-General;

                                                31.12.2021
   Republic of Singapore

4  Independence Act 1965  2020 Ed.

   (iii) the Chairman of the Public Service Commission;

   (iv) a Judge of the High Court nominated generally or
        specially by the Chief Justice; and

   (v) not more than 2 members of the Public Service
        Commission nominated generally or specially by the
        Chairman of the Public Service Commission;

   (g) the powers of the Police Force Commission shall be
        exercised by the Public Service Commission;

   (h) the powers of the Lord President of the Federal Court shall
        be exercised by the Chief Justice of Singapore; and

         (i) the powers of the Attorney-General of Malaysia shall be
              exercised by the Attorney-General of Singapore.

   (5) In this section, “amendment” includes addition and repeal.

Official languages and national language

 7.—(1) Malay, Mandarin, Tamil and English shall be the 4 official
languages in Singapore.

 (2) The national language shall be the Malay language and shall be
in the Roman script:

      Provided that —

       (a) no person shall be prohibited or prevented from using or
            from teaching or learning any other language; and

       (b) nothing in this section shall prejudice the right of the
            Government to preserve and sustain the use and study of
            the language of any other community in Singapore.

Grant of pardon

 8.—(1) The President, as occasion shall arise, may, on the advice of
the Cabinet —

       (a) grant a pardon to any accomplice in any offence who gives
            information which leads to the conviction of the principal
            offender or any one of the principal offenders, if more than
            one;
          Republic of Singapore

2020 Ed.  Independence Act 1965  5

(b) grant to any offender convicted of any offence in any court
     in Singapore, a pardon, free or subject to lawful conditions,
     or any reprieve or respite, either indefinite or for such
     period as the President may think fit, of the execution of
     any sentence pronounced on such offender; or

          (c) remit the whole or any part of such sentence or of any
              penalty or forfeiture imposed by law.

 (2) Where any offender has been condemned to death by the
sentence of any court and in the event of an appeal such sentence has
been confirmed by the appellate court, the President shall cause the
reports which are made to him by the Judge who tried the case and the
Chief Justice or other presiding Judge of the appellate court to be
forwarded to the Attorney-General with instructions that, after the
Attorney-General has given his opinion thereon, the reports shall be
sent, together with the Attorney-General’s opinion, to the Cabinet so
that the Cabinet may advise the President on the exercise of the power
conferred on him by subsection (1).

Transfer of property and succession to rights, liabilities and
obligations

 9. All property, movable and immovable, and rights, liabilities and
obligations which before 16 September 1963 belonged to or were the
responsibility of the Government of Singapore and which on that day
or after became the property of or the responsibility of the
Government of Malaysia shall, on Singapore Day, revert to, and
vest in, or devolve upon, and become once again the property of or the
responsibility of the Government of Singapore.

Transfer of Singapore officers

 10.—(1) All persons, including members of the Armed Forces, the
Police Force, the Courts, the Legal Service and the Judiciary and all
others who immediately before 16 September 1963 were officers
employed by the Government of Singapore and who on that day or
after became officers employed by the Government of Malaysia shall
on Singapore Day become once again officers employed by the
Government of Singapore.

                                 31.12.2021
   Republic of Singapore

6  Independence Act 1965  2020 Ed.

 (2) All persons who between 16 September 1963 and Singapore
Day were engaged by the Government of Malaysia and were
employed in those departments which were departments of the
Government of Singapore before 16 September 1963 shall on
Singapore Day become persons temporarily employed by the
Government of Singapore.

 (3) The President may within 24 months of Singapore Day confirm
or terminate the employment of any person or class of persons who
are temporarily employed by the Government under the provisions of
subsection (2).

Temporary provision as to jurisdiction and procedure of
Singapore Courts

 11. Until other provision is made by the Legislature, the
jurisdiction, original or appellate, and the practice and procedure of
the High Court and the subordinate courts of Singapore shall be the
same as that exercised and followed immediately before Singapore
Day, and appeals from the High Court shall continue to lie to the
Federal Court of Malaysia and to the Privy Council.

Appointment to statutory boards, etc.

 12. Any provision in any written law in force in Singapore which
enables a member of any statutory board or other body constituted by
law to be appointed from Malaysia or as representing any authority or
person or body of persons in Malaysia shall, unless the President by
notification in the Gazette otherwise orders, cease to have effect and
such statutory board or body shall be deemed to be properly
constituted notwithstanding that no such member has been or is
appointed.

Existing laws

 13.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, all existing laws
shall continue in force on and after Singapore Day, but all such laws
shall be construed as from Singapore Day with such modifications,
adaptations, qualifications and exceptions as may be necessary to
bring them into conformity with this Act and with the independent
status of Singapore upon separation from Malaysia.
          Republic of Singapore

2020 Ed.  Independence Act 1965  7

 (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), in any
existing law which continues in force after Singapore Day, unless the
context otherwise requires —

(a) any reference to the Colony or to the State of Singapore
     shall be construed as a reference to the Republic of
     Singapore;

(b) any reference to the Yang di-Pertuan Agong shall be
     construed as a reference to the President;

          (c) any reference to the Yang di-Pertuan Negara shall be
              construed as a reference to the President;

(d) any reference to the Cabinet or to the Prime Minister or a
     Minister of Malaysia shall be construed as a reference to
     the Cabinet or to the Prime Minister or the appropriate
     Minister of Singapore;

          (e) any reference to the Parliament or to the House of
              Representatives of Malaysia shall be construed as a
              reference to the Parliament of Singapore;

          (f) any reference to the Legislative Assembly shall be
              construed as a reference to the Parliament of Singapore;

(g) any reference to the Attorney-General of Malaysia shall be
     construed as a reference to the Attorney-General of
     Singapore;

(h) any reference to the State Advocate-General of Singapore
     shall be construed as a reference to the Attorney-General of
     Singapore; and

          (i) any reference to any person holding a public office under
              the Government of Malaysia or to any other authority or
              body constituted under the Constitution of Malaysia or any
              written law of Malaysia shall be construed as a reference to
              the corresponding public officer or corresponding
              authority or body of Singapore.

                                 31.12.2021
                          Republic of Singapore

8                         Independence Act 1965  2020 Ed.

 (3) (a) The President may, by order made at any time during the
period of 3 years after the coming into operation of this Act and
published in the Gazette, make such modifications in any written law
as appear to him to be necessary or expedient in consequence of the
enactment of this Act and in consequence of the independence of
Singapore upon separation from Malaysia.

 (b) Any order made under this subsection may be amended or
repealed by a further order so made.

 (c) An order made under this subsection shall have effect from such
date, not being earlier than Singapore Day, as may be specified
therein.

 (d) An order made under this subsection shall be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after it is made.

 (4) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers contained in
subsection (3), the President may by order make such modifications
in any written law as appear to him to be necessary or expedient in
consequence of the abolition of the City Council and of the Rural
Board and of the assumption of the powers of the local authorities by
the Government.

 (5) The Prime Minister may by order declare which Minister is the
appropriate Minister for the purpose of subsection (2)(d) and may
similarly declare who is the corresponding public officer or which is
the corresponding authority or body referred to in subsection (2)(i).

 (6) In subsection (3), “modification” includes amendment,
adaptation and repeal and in relation to any law of Malaysia or of
the United Kingdom for the time being in force in Singapore includes
power to declare that such law shall cease to apply to Singapore.

   (7) In this section —

   “existing law” means any law including written law having
      effect as part of the law of Singapore prior to Singapore Day;
      and
          Republic of Singapore

2020 Ed.  Independence Act 1965  9

“written law” includes the Constitution of Malaysia and the
   Constitution of Singapore and all Acts, Ordinances and
   enactments by whatever name called and subsidiary
   legislation made thereunder for the time being in force in
   Singapore.

Saving

 14. Nothing in this Act shall affect the validity of any acts done in
the name of, or by, the Yang di-Pertuan Negara or the State
Advocate-General before the enactment of this Act.

                                 31.12.2021
                     LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE INDEPENDENCE ACT 1965

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 9 of 1965 — Republic of Singapore Independence Act, 1965

Bill                  : 43/1965

First Reading         : 13 December 1965

Second Reading        : 22 December 1965

Notice of Amendments  : 22 December 1965

Commencement          : 9 August 1965

2. Act 7 of 1972 — Singapore Armed Forces Act, 1972
   (Amendments made by section 201(5) read with the Second Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill                  : 2/1972

First Reading         : 7 March 1972

Second and Third Readings : 23 March 1972

Commencement          : 15 June 1972 (section 201(5) read
                            with the Second Schedule)

3. 1985 Revised Edition — Republic of Singapore Independence
                                    Act 1965 (Chapter RSI)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

                                                              31.12.2021
                             ii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
                     COMPARATIVE TABLE
REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE INDEPENDENCE ACT 1965

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    1985 Ed.
—                          8—(3) [Deleted by Act 7 of 1972]

                           31.12.2021
