THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                  PROPERTY TAX ACT 1960

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                                                            2020 Ed.

Property Tax Act 1960

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

                               ADMINISTRATION

3. Appointment of Comptroller and Chief Assessor
4. Responsibility of Comptroller
5. Delegation of powers

                                        PART 3

                      IMPOSITION OF PROPERTY TAX

 6. Charge of property tax
 7. Valuation by gross receipts
 8. [Omitted]
 9. Rates of tax
10. Valuation List
11. Adoption of Valuation List
12. [Repealed]
13. [Repealed]
14. [Repealed]
15. [Repealed]
16. Returns to be made by owners
17. Occupier to furnish name of owner
18. Notice of chargeability to be given by property owners
19. Notice to be given by owners of property, etc.
20. Amendment of Valuation List
20A. Objection to Valuation List
21. Tax on new buildings, etc.

                        1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                          2

Section
   22. Collection and refund of taxes

          PART 4

          APPEALS

23.       Valuation Review Board
24.       Fees and allowances to members
25.       Secretary to Board
26.       Board’s powers, etc., may be exercised by committee or single
          member
27.       [Repealed]
28.       Casting vote
29.       Notice of appeal
30.       Copy of notice to be sent to Chief Assessor, etc.
31.       [Repealed]
32.       Hearing of appeals
33.       Powers of Board
33A.      Hearing of appeal by committee where member becomes
          unavailable
33B.      Hearing of appeal by single member where member becomes
          unavailable
34.       Board’s decision to be final
35.       Appeals to General Division of High Court

          PART 5

          COLLECTION AND RECOVERY OF TAX

35A.      Tax to be paid despite objection, etc.
36.       Penalty for non-payment of tax and enforcement of payment
37.       Tax may be paid by instalments
38.       Appointment of agent, etc., for recovery of tax
38A.      Recovery of tax
39.       Proceedings for recovery of arrears
40.       Attachment
41.       Application of proceeds
42.       Title conferred by purchase at sale under section 39(1)(b)
43.       Cost of proceedings for recovery of arrears
44.       Power to stop sale
45.       Application to court
46.       Security to be given

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
3        Property Tax Act 1960                                           2020 Ed.

Section  Liability for payment of taxes of transferor who has not given
   47.   notice
         Assessment, etc., not to be impeached for want of form
   48.

                                           PART 6

                    NAMES AND NUMBERS OF BUILDINGS,
                                 ESTATES OR STREETS

   49. Street and Building Names Board
   50. Name of building, estate or street
   51. Numbers on properties
   52. Penalty for numbering or naming property, estate or street

            without authority of Comptroller or SBNB
   53. Penalty for destroying name or number
   54. Disputed expenses to be determined by Magistrate’s Court
   55. Recovery of expenses and costs payable by owners

                                           PART 7

                            OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

   56. Penalty for obstructing Comptroller, etc., in carrying out his or
            her duties

   57. Offence to furnish false information
   58. Comptroller, etc., may direct prosecution
   59. Property tax officer may demand names and addresses in certain

            cases
   60. Saving of prosecutions under other laws
   61. General penalties
   62. Jurisdiction of court
   63. Composition of offences

                                           PART 8

                          MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

   64. Power to enter upon lands for purposes of this Act
   64A. Power of Comptroller, etc., to obtain information and furnishing

            of information
   64B. Protection of informers
   65. Receipts, notices, etc., may be given by authorised officer
   66. Use of electronic service
   67. Service of notices, etc.

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    4

Section   Service of summons
          Notice to attend court
   68.    Tax remission
   68A.   Inaccuracies in documents
   69.    Evidence
   70.    Regulations
   71.
   72.

An Act to provide for the levy of a tax on immovable properties and
  to regulate the collection thereof.

                                                              [1 January 1961]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Property Tax Act 1960.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “account with the electronic service”, in relation to any person,
         means a computer account within the electronic service
         which is assigned by the Comptroller to that person for the
         storage and retrieval of electronic records relating to that
         person;

      “annual value” —

              (a) in relation to a house or building or land or tenement,
                   not being a wharf, pier, jetty or landing‑stage, means
                   the gross amount at which the same can reasonably
                   be expected to be let from year to year, the landlord
                   paying the expenses of repair, insurance,
                   maintenance or upkeep and all taxes (other than
                   goods and services tax); and

              (b) in relation to a wharf, pier, jetty or landing-stage,
                   means the gross amount at which the same can

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
5  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

   reasonably be expected to be let from year to year, the
   tenant paying the expenses of repair, insurance,
   maintenance or upkeep;

   [Deleted by Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

   “Board” means the Valuation Review Board constituted under
      section 23;

   “building” means any structure erected on land and includes any
      house, hut, shed or similar roofed enclosure, whether used for
      the purposes of human habitation or otherwise, any slip,
      dock, wharf, pier, jetty, landing-stage, underground or
      overground tank for the storage of solids, liquids or gases,
      and any oil refinery;

   “Chief Assessor” means the Chief Assessor appointed under
      section 3;

   “Comptroller” means the Comptroller of Property Tax
      appointed under section 3 and includes, for the purposes of
      this Act except the exercise of the powers conferred upon the
      Comptroller by sections 6 and 39, a Deputy Comptroller or an
      Assistant Comptroller so appointed;

   “dwelling house” includes a building or tenement wholly or
      principally used, constructed or adapted for use for human
      habitation;

   “electronic record” has the meaning given by the Electronic
      Transactions Act 2010;

   “electronic service” means the system established under
      section 29 of the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore
      Act 1992;

                                                                          [Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

   “Minister” means —

   (a) in relation to the definitions of “prescribed structural
        network” and “public authority” in section 2(1) and
        sections 2(8), 3(1), 6(8), (9) and (12), 7, 9(2) and (3),
        19(9), 23(1) and (3) to (7), 24, 25, 66(2) and 69, the

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    6

               Minister charged with the responsibility for finance;
               and

                                                                     [Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

          (b) in relation to section 49(1), (3), (4), (7), (8) and (9),
               the Minister charged with the responsibility for
               national development;

“occupier” means the person in occupation of the premises in
   respect of which the word is used or having the charge,
   management or control thereof either on his, her or its own
   account or as agent of another person, but does not include a
   lodger;

“owner” means the person for the time being receiving the rent
   of any premises whether on his, her or its own account or as
   agent or trustee for any other person or as receiver or who
   would receive the same if the premises were let to a tenant
   and includes the person whose name is entered in the
   Valuation List;

“premises” includes messuages, houses, buildings, lands,
   tenements, easements and hereditaments of any tenure,
   whether open or enclosed, whether built on or not, whether
   public or private, and whether maintained or not under
   statutory authority;

“prescribed structural network” means such structural network
   as the Minister may, by regulations, prescribe;

“property” includes houses, buildings, lands and tenements;

“public authority” means such public authority as may be
   prescribed for the purposes of this Act by the Minister;

“Street and Building Names Board” or “SBNB” means the
   Street and Building Names Board established under
   section 49(1);

“structural network” means a network (whether closed or
   otherwise) or any part thereof —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
7  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

   (a) used or intended to be used for any purpose,
        including for circulation, distribution, transportation
        or transmission; and

   (b) comprising one or more of any of the following:

   (i) railway or rapid transit system lines;

   (ii) pipelines;

   (iii) cables (including those situate within pipelines,
         ducts or conduits);

   (iv) ducts; or

   (v) any other type of conduit or channel,

   (b) including the settings and supports thereof and any
        related machine, apparatus or equipment;

   “tax” means the property tax imposed by this Act;

   “Valuation List” means the Valuation List prepared under
      section 10.

                                                                                    [35/2008; 23/2010; 18/2013]

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a prescribed structural network is
deemed to be a tenement, and where different parts of a prescribed
structural network are owned by different persons, each of such parts
is deemed to be a tenement.

                                                                                                           [35/2008]

 (3) In assessing the annual value of any premises in or upon which
there is any machinery used for any of the following purposes:

   (a) the making of any article or part thereof;

   (b) the altering, repairing, ornamenting or finishing of any
        article; or

   (c) the adapting for sale of any article,

the enhanced value given to the premises by the presence of such
machinery must not be taken into consideration, and for this purpose
“machinery” includes the steam engines, boilers and other motive
power belonging to that machinery.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    8

 (4) Where a prescribed structural network situated in or upon any
premises is machinery, subsection (3) applies only in relation to that
part of the prescribed structural network in or upon any house or
building.

                                                                                                           [35/2008]

 (5) Where a person owns one or more of the properties in, upon,
under or above which there is any part of a prescribed structural
network, as well as the whole or any part of the prescribed structural
network, the annual value of those properties and the whole or part of
the prescribed structural network (as the case may be) may be
assessed together.

                                                                                                           [35/2008]

 (6) In assessing the annual value of any property, the annual value
of the property is, at the option of the Chief Assessor, deemed to be
the annual value as defined in this Act or the sum which is equivalent
to the annual interest at 5% —

(a) on the estimated value of the property, including buildings
     (if any) thereon; or

(b) on the estimated value of the land as if it were vacant land
     with no buildings erected, or being erected, thereon.

 (7) In estimating the annual value of any house, building, land or
tenement, the annual value of the house, building, land or tenement
means, at the option of the Chief Assessor, the annual equivalent of
the gross rent at which the same is let or licensed to the occupier or
occupiers (as the case may be) and in arriving at that annual
equivalent the Chief Assessor may also give consideration to any
capital or periodical sums or any other consideration whatsoever
(if any) which, it appears to the Chief Assessor, may have also been
paid.

 (8) Subject to subsection (9), where land is occupied as appurtenant
to any house or building, but is in excess of the area fixed by the
Comptroller with the sanction of the Minister, the excess land is
deemed to be vacant land and the annual value must be separately
assessed at a sum which is equivalent to the annual interest at 5% on
the estimated value of the land.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
9  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

 (9) Where the land referred to in subsection (8) is occupied or
capable of being developed for building purposes, any money
expended with the object of developing that land for building
purposes is to be deducted from the estimated improved value of that
land for a period of 5 years after such expenditure.

 (10) In assessing the annual value of any property which comprises
a lot the title of which is issued under the Land Titles (Strata)
Act 1967 —

   (a) the subsidiary proprietor of the lot is deemed to be the
        owner thereof;

   (b) the annual value of the lot is to be determined as if that lot
        comprised a freehold estate in land; and

   (c) no separate annual value is to be attributed to the land upon
       which the subdivided building stands.

 (11) In assessing the annual value of any property comprised in a
statutory land grant or State lease or a lease of property by a public
authority (where the public authority is the lessor) for a period
exceeding 3 years —

   (a) the grantee or lessee of the property is deemed to be the
        owner thereof;

   (b) the annual value of the property is to be determined as if
        that property comprised a freehold estate in land; and

       (c) no deduction is to be made of any premium or rent payable
            to the Government or the public authority.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (12) In assessing the annual value of any property required to be
assessed on the basis of gross receipts by any order made under
section 7, the Chief Assessor is to determine the annual value of the
property in the manner specified in the order and the amount so
determined is deemed to be the annual value of the property.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    10

          PART 2

          ADMINISTRATION

Appointment of Comptroller and Chief Assessor

 3.—(1) The Minister must appoint fit and proper persons to be the
Comptroller of Property Tax and the Chief Assessor and may also
appoint such number of Deputy Comptrollers and Assistant
Comptrollers of Property Tax as may be necessary.

 (2) A Deputy Comptroller and an Assistant Comptroller of Property
Tax have, subject to the directions of the Comptroller, all the powers
conferred by this Act on the Comptroller except the powers conferred
by sections 6 and 39.

Responsibility of Comptroller

 4.—(1) The Comptroller is responsible generally for the carrying
out of the provisions of this Act (except in relation to such functions
and duties as may be assigned to the Street and Building Names
Board under this Act) and for the collection of property tax and must
pay all amounts collected in respect thereof into the Consolidated
Fund.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (2) The Chief Assessor is responsible for the assessment of the
annual values of properties for the purposes of this Act.

 (3) The Comptroller must not amend or otherwise vary any annual
value ascribed to any property by the Chief Assessor.

Delegation of powers

 5. The Comptroller and the Chief Assessor may, subject to such
conditions or restrictions as they think fit, delegate to any person
having official duty or being employed in the administration of this
Act all or any of the powers, functions and duties by this Act vested in
them respectively.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
11  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

                        PART 3

    IMPOSITION OF PROPERTY TAX

Charge of property tax

 6.—(1) As from 1 January 1961, a property tax is, subject to the
provisions of this Act, payable at the rate or rates specified in this Act
for each year upon the annual value of all houses, buildings, lands and
tenements whatsoever included in the Valuation List and amended
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

(2) The tax is payable by the owner of such property —

    (a) in the case of tax payable under subsection (1), yearly in
         advance without demand, in the month of January; and

    (b) without affecting paragraph (a), where the Comptroller has
         served a notice for payment of the tax under this Act,
         within one month of the service of that notice.

 (3) The Comptroller may extend the period for payment referred to
in subsection (2) within which payment of the tax is to be made.

 (4) The tax is a first charge on the property concerned and, if not
paid within the prescribed time, is recoverable in the manner provided
in this Act.

 (5) No tax is payable on any house, land, building or tenement the
annual value of which is $18 or less.

 (6) Where the Comptroller is satisfied that a building or any part
thereof is used exclusively —

    (a) as a place for public religious worship;

    (b) for a public school which is in receipt of grants‑in‑aid from
         the Government;

    (c) for charitable purposes; or

    (d) for purposes conducive to social development in
         Singapore,

the building or such part thereof (as the case may be) is exempt from
payment of the tax.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    12

 (7) Where the Comptroller is satisfied that land is used or will be
developed or is being developed into a building for use principally for
any purpose specified in subsection (6), the land is exempt from
payment of the tax.

 (8) The Minister may exempt, subject to such conditions as the
Minister thinks fit, any premises or part thereof from the payment of
the tax.

 (9) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, remit or exempt
wholly or in part the tax payable in respect of such category of
properties for such period and subject to such conditions as the
Minister may specify in the order.

 (10) Where premises are held subject to the payment by the owner
thereof of any rent, rentcharge, annuity or other like payment, the
owner having paid the tax for the time being payable on the premises
is entitled, despite any stipulation to the contrary, to deduct from the
rent, rentcharge, annuity or other payment a sum which bears the
same proportion to the tax so paid by the owner as the amount of that
rent, rentcharge, annuity or other payment bears to the annual value of
the premises.

 (11) No deduction under subsection (10) may be made from any
rent payable to the Government or to a public authority.

 (12) Despite any other provision in this Act, the Minister may, in
respect of any public authority or body corporate constituted under
any written law, order that in lieu of the tax payable under this Act,
the public authority or body corporate must —

(a) in a case equivalent to the payment of tax under
     subsection (1), yearly in advance without demand, in the
     month of January; and

(b) without affecting paragraph (a), where the Comptroller has
     served a notice for payment, within one month of the
     service of that notice,

pay to the Government the sum of which is to be calculated on such
basis as may be deemed equitable by the Minister.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
13  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

 (13) If such sum remains due and unpaid at the end of 3 weeks from
the end of January in each year or from the end of one month from the
date of the service of a notice for payment of the tax (as the case may
be) it is deemed to be arrears of tax payable and may be recovered in
the manner provided in this Act together with interest at such rate as
may be prescribed.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (14) If it is proved to the satisfaction of the Comptroller that any tax
has been paid in excess of the amount with which any property is
properly chargeable, the owner of the property is entitled to have the
amount so paid in excess refunded.

 (15) Every claim for such refund under subsection (14) must be
made within 5 years of such excess payment.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (16) The Comptroller must certify the amount to be refunded and
must cause payment to be made immediately.

 (17) Where any amount has been erroneously refunded under
subsection (16), the owner must, despite the certification by the
Comptroller of such refund, repay that amount within a period of
15 days of the owner receiving a demand therefor from the
Comptroller.

 (18) If that amount remains due and unpaid at the expiry of that
period mentioned in subsection (17), it is deemed to be arrears of tax
payable in respect of the property concerned and may be recovered in
the manner provided in this Act.

Valuation by gross receipts

 7. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, require the annual
value of any property or part thereof falling within such category as
may be prescribed to be assessed on the basis of the gross receipts
(whether in the preceding or current year) arising from the use of that
property for the purposes of any trade or business and such
assessment must be determined in the manner specified in the order.

 8. [Omitted as spent]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.      Property Tax Act 1960                                14

Rates of tax

 9.—(1) The tax payable in respect of each year is at the rate of 36%
upon the annual value of every property included in the Valuation
List.

 (2) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, direct that the tax
payable in respect of any property prescribed, or falling within a class
of property prescribed, or any part of such property, is at a rate or rates
less than 36%; and different rates may be specified for different
properties or classes of properties prescribed.

                                                                                                           [18/2013]

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, a reference to a change in the
prescribed class of any property is a reference to the property or part
thereof —

(a) being prescribed or falling within a class prescribed by the
     Minister under subsection (2), where it was previously not
     so prescribed or it previously did not fall within any
     prescribed class, as the case may be; or

(b) ceasing to be prescribed or to fall within a prescribed class,
     whether or not it also falls within any other prescribed
     class,

because of a change in circumstances relating to the property
(including a change in the use of the property or part thereof).

                                                                                                           [18/2013]

Valuation List

 10.—(1) The Chief Assessor must cause to be prepared a list,
known as the Valuation List, of all houses, buildings, lands and
tenements.

 (2) The inclusion in the Valuation List of any house or building
which has been erected in contravention of any written law does not
prevent the person who has contravened that law from being liable to
the penalty provided under that law, or such unauthorised house or
building from being demolished under the provisions of that law.

 (3) The Valuation List must contain in respect of all houses,
buildings, lands and tenements —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
15  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

    (a) a description or designation sufficient for identification;

    (b) the name of the owner;

    (c) the annual value ascribed thereto; and

    (d) such other particulars as the Chief Assessor may from time
         to time consider necessary.

 (4) Each part of a building divided laterally or horizontally into
parts in such a manner that the owner, either solely or jointly with
other owners, of one part is not also the owner either solely or jointly
with the other owners respectively of any other part, is for the purpose
of this Part deemed to be a building.

 (5) Each part of a partially completed building divided laterally or
horizontally into parts is for the purposes of this Part deemed to be a
building if it is used for human habitation or otherwise.

 (6) When the name of the owner is not known, it is sufficient to
designate the owner in the Valuation List and in any proceedings to
recover any tax or arrears thereof as “the owner” of that house,
building, land or tenement (as the case may be) without further
description.

 (7) The Valuation List may be prepared and kept in electronic form
in a computer or on any magnetic, optical, chemical or other medium
as may be determined by the Chief Assessor.

Adoption of Valuation List

 11. The Chief Assessor has the discretion either to cause to be
prepared a new Valuation List every year or to adopt the Valuation
List then in force, with such alterations and amendments as may have
been made from time to time in accordance with the provisions of this
Act.

 12. [Repealed by Act 33 of 2002]

 13. [Repealed by Act 33 of 2002]

 14. [Repealed by Act 33 of 2002]

 15. [Repealed by Act 33 of 2002]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    16

Returns to be made by owners

 16.—(1) The Chief Assessor may, at any time and as often as the
Chief Assessor thinks necessary, serve on any person a notice
requiring the person to make within 21 days from the date of the
notice a return in such form as may be prescribed by the Chief
Assessor containing such particulars as may be required for the
purposes of this Act.

 (2) Any person on whom such a notice has been served who fails to
comply with the terms of the notice shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

 (3) Any person who in a return made under this section makes any
statement which is false in any material particular shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both.

 (4) All returns, additional information and other correspondence
and payment of tax under the provisions of this Act may be sent post
free to the Comptroller or the Chief Assessor in envelopes marked
“Property Tax”.

Occupier to furnish name of owner

 17. Any occupier of any premises who when requested by or on
behalf of the Chief Assessor to state the name of the owner of the
premises refuses or omits to disclose or misstates the same shall,
unless the occupier shows cause to the satisfaction of the court for the
occupier’s refusal, omission or misstatement, be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

Notice of chargeability to be given by property owners

 18.—(1) Any person who owns any property the annual value of
which is more than $18 and has not received a notice requiring the
person to pay tax in respect of such property within 6 months from
1 January in each year must, within 14 days after the expiry of that
period, or such extended time as the Chief Assessor may allow, give

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
17  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

notice to the Chief Assessor of the person’s ownership of such
property.

                                                                                [Act 33 of 2022 wef 04/11/2022]

 (2) On receipt of any such notice the Chief Assessor must, if the
property in question has not been included in the Valuation List, serve
on such person a notice requiring the person to make a return as
provided in section 16(1).

 (3) Any person who without reasonable excuse fails or neglects to
give such notice of chargeability or to furnish such return shall be
guilty of an offence.

Notice to be given by owners of property, etc.

 19.—(1) Whenever any estate or interest in any house, building,
land or tenement included, or capable of being included, in a
Valuation List is sold or transferred whether by instrument or
operation of law or otherwise, the vendor or transferor must, within
one month after the sale or transfer, or such extended time as the
Chief Assessor may allow, give notice thereof to the Chief Assessor
in such form as may be prescribed by the Chief Assessor.

                                                                                                           [18/2013]

                                                                                [Act 33 of 2022 wef 04/11/2022]

 (2) On receipt of any such notice, the Chief Assessor may require
the production of the instrument of sale or transfer, if any.

 (3) When any building or any part of a building which is liable to
the payment of tax is demolished or removed, the owner must, within
15 days from the completion of the demolition or removal, give
written notice thereof to the Chief Assessor.

 (4) Where any building or part of a building is demolished or
removed and no action has been taken to amend the Valuation List in
respect thereof for any reason, the owner must, at the option of the
Comptroller —

       (a) continue to be liable to pay the tax in respect of the
            building or part of the building, as if the building had not
            been demolished or removed; or

       (b) even if the Valuation List has not been amended, be liable
            to pay the tax in respect of that property from the date of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.              Property Tax Act 1960                        18

          demolition or removal of the building (as the case may be)
          on the basis of any revised annual value which may be
          ascribed to that property in a subsequent amended
          Valuation List.

(5) Where there is —

(a) a letting of any property;

(b) an increase in any rent charged for the letting of the
     property; or

          (c) an increase in any sum charged —

          (i) for the use of furniture, fixtures, fittings and other
              furnishings in the property;

          (ii) for the maintenance of the property and the grounds
               thereof; or

          (iii) for services provided in connection with the
                property,

the owner of the property must, within 15 days after the letting or the
increase, give written notice thereof to the Chief Assessor.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (6) Where any property is let and a premium is charged for the
letting of the property, the owner thereof must, within 15 days of the
receipt of the premium, give written notice to the Chief Assessor.

 (7) Subsections (5) and (6) do not apply where the instrument (in
relation to the letting or the increase, as the case may be) —

(a) is chargeable with duty under the Stamp Duties Act 1929;
     and

       (b) is stamped under that Act within the 15‑day period referred
            to in subsection (5) or (6), as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (8) When any property ceases to be occupied by the owner, the
owner of the property must, within 15 days of ceasing to occupy the
property, give written notice thereof to the Chief Assessor.

 (9) Without affecting subsection (8), where there has been a change
in the prescribed class of any property referred to in section 9(3), the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
19  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

owner of the property must, within 15 days after the date of the
change, give written notice thereof to the Chief Assessor, unless the
Minister, in an order referred to in section 9(2) —

    (a) prescribes a period longer than 15 days; or

    (b) provides that no notice need be given.

                                                             [18/2013]

 (10) Despite a change in the prescribed class of any property
referred to in section 9(3), the owner of the property continues to be
liable to pay the tax in respect of the property the owner had been
paying immediately prior to the change as if no change had occurred
until the owner’s liability is adjusted under subsection (11), or
subsections (11) and (12).

                                                                                                           [18/2013]

 (11) Where the Comptroller becomes aware of the change in the
prescribed class of any property, the owner of the property is liable, as
from the date of the change, to pay the tax on the basis of the rate or
rates applicable to the property following the change.

                                                                                                           [18/2013]

 (12) Without affecting subsection (11), where there is a revised
annual value ascribed to the property in a subsequent amended
Valuation List pursuant to the change in the prescribed class of the
property, the owner of the property is liable, as from the date of the
change and at the option of the Comptroller, to pay the tax on the
revised annual value.

                                                                                                           [18/2013]

 (13) For the purposes of subsections (9) to (12), where planning
permission (other than provisional permission) for the making of any
material change in the use of the property or part thereof (as the case
may be) is given by the competent authority under the Planning
Act 1998 and the circumstances for which such permission is sought
correspond to any circumstances resulting in the change in the
prescribed class of the property, then the date of the planning
permission is prima facie evidence of the date of the change in the
prescribed class of the property.

                                                                                                           [18/2013]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    20

(14) No tax is payable or refundable, as the case may be —

(a) under subsection (11) or (12) in respect of any period
     which is more than 5 years prior to 1 January of the year in
     which a notice of amendment to the Valuation List under
     section 20 is issued pursuant to the change in the
     prescribed class of the property; or

       (b) under subsection (11) in respect of any period which is
            more than 5 years prior to 1 January of the year in which
            the Chief Assessor considers it not desirable that an
            amendment be made to the Valuation List in respect of the
            property despite the change in the prescribed class thereof.

                                                                                                           [18/2013]

 (15) Any person who fails to give any notice required by this
section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

 (16) Any owner who fails to give any notice required by this section
and who subsequently becomes liable to pay tax pursuant to
section 21 must pay interest on the tax at such rate as may be
prescribed.

 (17) The interest payable under subsection (16) is to be calculated
from the date of expiry of the period during which the notice is to be
given and is deemed to be tax payable and recoverable under this Act.

Amendment of Valuation List

 20.—(1) Where it appears that any Valuation List —

       (a) is or has become inaccurate in any material particular in
            any year; or

       (b) is likely to become inaccurate in any material particular in
            the ensuing year,

the Chief Assessor may, in the year referred to in paragraph (a), if the
Chief Assessor considers it desirable that an amendment should be
made to the Valuation List, give notice thereof to the owner of the
property concerned stating the amendment that is considered
desirable and the date from which it is proposed the amendment is

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
21  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

to take effect, and the amendment is to be made in the Valuation List
from that date.

 (2) For the purposes of this section, the Valuation List is deemed to
be inaccurate in a material particular where —

    (a) the Chief Assessor is of the opinion that the annual value of
         a property included in the Valuation List does not correctly
         represent the annual value evidenced by —

    (i) the rental obtained from a tenant in respect of a
        property previously vacant or previously occupied
        by the owner;

    (ii) the increased or decreased rental obtained in respect
         of the letting out of that or similar property;

    (iii) the consideration paid or value passing on the sale or
          transfer, directly or indirectly, of any estate or
          interest in that or similar property, including the
          sale or transfer of 75% or more of the issued ordinary
          shares of a land‑owning company, whether or not the
          Chief Assessor exercises the option given in
          section 2(6);

    (iv) the development cost of that or similar property; or

    (v) the gross takings or receipts derived from the use of
         that or similar property;

    (b) the Chief Assessor is of the opinion that the rental (if any)
         obtained from the tenant is lower than the gross amount at
         which the property could reasonably be expected to be let
         from year to year;

    (c) any new building or tenement is erected or any building or
        tenement is rebuilt, enlarged, altered, improved or
        demolished;

    (d) there is any change in the prescribed class of any property
         referred to in section 9(3);

    (e) any property or part thereof, not exempted from the
        provisions of this Act, has not been included in the
        Valuation List; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    22

        (f) the Chief Assessor is of the opinion that the annual value of
            any property or part thereof in the Valuation List required
            to be assessed on the basis of gross receipts by any order
            made under section 7 does not correctly represent the
            annual value as evidenced by the gross receipts arising
            from the use of that property for the purposes of any trade
            or business and determined in the manner specified in the
            order.

                                                                                                [23/2010; 18/2013]

 (3) The Chief Assessor may cancel any notice given under
subsection (1) which is inaccurate in any material particular and
may replace it with another notice.

 (4) Any alteration to a Valuation List required for the purpose of
correcting any of the matters referred to in section 10(3)(a), (b) and
(d) or for the correction of any clerical or arithmetical error therein
does not in itself constitute an amendment and may be made at any
time.

 (5) The Chief Assessor may, if the Chief Assessor is satisfied that
there is any clerical or arithmetic error in the Valuation List in respect
of the annual value ascribed to any house, building, land or
tenement —

(a) make an alteration to the Valuation List to correct the error;
     and

(b) cancel any notice given under subsection (1) and replace it
     with another notice to correct such error,

except that no such alteration or cancellation may be in respect of any
annual value for any period of more than 5 years prior to the date on
which the Chief Assessor has ascertained that such an error exists.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (6) In this section, “land-owning company” means a company the
main object or one of the main objects of which is the development of
property by the construction of houses or buildings thereon for the
purpose of sale or rent.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
23  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

Objection to Valuation List

 20A.—(1) Any owner aggrieved by the inclusion of any property in
the Valuation List or by the annual value ascribed thereto in the
Valuation List in any year may, at any time in that year, make an
objection to the Chief Assessor by written notice in such form as the
Chief Assessor may determine, stating precisely the grounds on
which the objection is made and the desired amendments to the
Valuation List.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), any owner who desires to object to an
amendment made to the Valuation List under section 20 must do so
within 30 days of the service of the notice referred to in section 20(1),
or within such further period as the Chief Assessor may allow.

                                                                                                           [18/2013]

                                                                                 [Act 3 of 2024 wef 26/02/2024]

 (3) The Chief Assessor must consider an objection under
subsection (1) or (2) and may —

    (a) disallow the objection;

    (b) allow the objection in whole;

    (c) allow the objection in part; or

    (d) allow the objection in a manner agreed between the Chief
         Assessor and the owner.

 (4) The Chief Assessor must serve the owner by post or otherwise
with a written notice of the Chief Assessor’s decision.

 (5) Where the Chief Assessor allows an objection under
subsection (3)(b), (c) or (d), the Chief Assessor may specify any
date in the year in which the objection is made from which the
amendment is to have effect, and the amendment must be made in the
Valuation List immediately.

 (6) The Chief Assessor may cancel any notice served under
subsection (4) which is inaccurate in any material particular and
may replace it with another notice not later than 5 years after the
serving of the notice under that subsection.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    24

 (7) Any owner dissatisfied with the decision made by the Chief
Assessor under subsection (3)(a) or (c) may, within 30 days of the
service of the notice under subsection (4), appeal to the Board in the
manner provided in section 29.

                                                                                                           [18/2013]

 (8) Where the Board varies any annual value in the Valuation List
under an appeal to the Board, the Chief Assessor must cause the
Valuation List to be amended in accordance with the decision of the
Board.

(9) Unless the Chief Assessor determines otherwise —

(a) an objection under this section may only be made in
     respect of the annual value of any property in the Valuation
     List as from a date after —

          (i) the date of notice of amendment under section 20(1),
              where no previous objection to that notice in respect
              of that property had been made in the year to which
              the Valuation List relates; or

          (ii) the date of written notice under subsection (4), where
               a previous objection in respect of that property had
               been made in the year to which the Valuation List
               relates; and

(b) no objection under this section may be made within the
     period during which the decision of the Chief Assessor
     under subsection (3) regarding any previous objection in
     respect of the same property is pending.

Tax on new buildings, etc.

 21.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), where any new building or
tenement is erected and no action is taken in respect thereof for any
reason whatsoever to amend the Valuation List for the year in which
the work of erecting the building or tenement was completed, the tax
in respect of the building or tenement is, even if the Valuation List has
not been duly amended under section 20, payable from the date of
completion of the work of erecting the building or tenement.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
25  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

 (2) The tax payable under subsection (1) is to be calculated on the
basis of any revised annual value which may be ascribed to the
building or tenement in a subsequent Valuation List.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (3) Where any part of the building or tenement which is under
construction (whether divided laterally or horizontally) is used for the
purpose of human habitation or otherwise before the work of erecting
the building or tenement is completed and no action is taken in
respect thereof for any reason whatsoever to amend the Valuation List
for the year in which that part of the building or tenement was used,
the tax in respect of that part of the building or tenement is, even if the
Valuation List has not been duly amended under section 20, payable
from the date of use of that part of the building or tenement.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (4) The tax payable under subsection (3) is to be calculated on the
basis of any revised annual value which may be ascribed to that part
of the building or tenement in a subsequent Valuation List.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (5) Where any building or tenement is rebuilt, enlarged, altered or
improved and no action is taken in respect thereof for any reason
whatsoever to amend the Valuation List for the year in which the
work of rebuilding, enlarging, altering or improving the building or
tenement was completed, the tax in respect of the building or
tenement is, even if the Valuation List has not been duly amended
under section 20, payable from the date of completion of the work of
rebuilding, enlarging, altering or improving the building or tenement.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (6) The tax payable under subsection (5) is to be calculated on the
basis of any revised annual value which may be ascribed to the
building or tenement in a subsequent Valuation List.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (7) Where any property is included for the first time in a Valuation
List for any year, then, even if the property was not previously
included in any Valuation List, the tax in respect of the property is
payable from —

    (a) in the case of any building, the date of completion of such
         building; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    26

(b) in the case of any land or tenement, such date as may be
     determined by the Comptroller,

and such tax is to be calculated on the basis of the annual value
ascribed to the property in the Valuation List.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (8) Despite subsection (7), where any property comprised in —

(a) a statutory land grant or State lease; or

(b) a lease of property by a public authority (where the public
     authority is the lessor) for a period exceeding 3 years,

is transferred or leased and thereupon included in the Valuation List
(whether for the first time or otherwise) —

          (c) the tax in respect of the property is payable from the date of
              the transfer or date of commencement of the lease of the
              property; and

       (d) such tax is to be calculated on the basis of the revised
            annual value which may be ascribed to the property in a
            subsequent Valuation List.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (9) Where any building or tenement ceases to be vacant or to be
occupied by the owner thereof and is let to a tenant or where the rent
of any building or tenement is increased, directly or indirectly, and no
action is taken in respect thereof for any reason whatsoever to amend
the Valuation List for the year in which the letting or increase of rent
occurs, the tax in respect of the building or tenement is, even if the
Valuation List has not been duly amended under section 20, payable
from the date of the letting or increase of rent (as the case may be) on
the basis of any revised annual value which may be ascribed to the
building or tenement in a subsequent Valuation List.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (10) Despite section 19(4), where any property is to be or is being
re-developed and no action has been taken to amend the Valuation
List in respect thereof for any reason whatsoever, the tax in respect of
the property is payable from such date as the Comptroller may
determine, and such tax is to be calculated on the basis of the revised

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
27  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

annual value which may be ascribed to the property in a subsequent
Valuation List.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (11) No tax is payable under this section in respect of any period
which is more than 5 years prior to 1 January of the year in which
such notice of inclusion in the Valuation List or notice of amendment
to the Valuation List under section 20 is issued.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (12) The Comptroller may, at any time and as often as the
Comptroller thinks necessary, serve on any person a notice
requiring the person to make, within 21 days from the date of the
notice, a return in such form as may be prescribed by the Comptroller,
containing such particulars as may be required for the purpose of
determining the tax payable in accordance with this section.

 (13) Any person on whom such a notice has been served who fails
to comply with the terms of the notice shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

 (14) Any person who in a return made under this section makes any
statement which is false in any material particular shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both.

Collection and refund of taxes

 22.—(1) Where it appears to the Comptroller that any tax is payable
or is to be refunded in respect of any property under section 19(4),
(11) or (12) or 21 (as the case may be) the Comptroller must give
notice thereof to the owner of the property concerned stating the
amount of the tax due or tax to be refunded and the period for which
the tax is payable or to be refunded, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [18/2013]

 (2) Any owner who objects to any demand made by the
Comptroller under subsection (1) may, within 30 days of the
service of such notice, or within such further period as the
Comptroller may allow, give to the Comptroller notice of objection

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    28

in such form as the Comptroller may determine stating precisely the
grounds of the owner’s objection.

                                                                                                           [18/2013]

                                                                                 [Act 3 of 2024 wef 26/02/2024]

 (3) The Comptroller must consider the objection and may —

(a) disallow the objection;

(b) allow the objection in whole;

          (c) allow the objection in part; or

(d) allow the objection in a manner agreed between the Chief
     Assessor and the owner,

and must serve the owner by post or otherwise with a written notice of
the Comptroller’s decision.

 (4) The Comptroller may cancel any notice given under
subsection (1) or (3) and replace it with another notice not later
than 5 years after the serving of such notice on the owner of the
property.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (5) Any owner dissatisfied with the decision made by the
Comptroller under subsection (3)(a) or (c) may, within 30 days
after such service, appeal to the Board in the manner provided in
section 29.

                                                                                                           [18/2013]

                                    PART 4

                                   APPEALS

Valuation Review Board

 23.—(1) For the purpose of hearing appeals from the decisions of
the Chief Assessor of which notice has been given under section 20A,
or of the Comptroller of which notice has been given under section 22
or 38, in the manner provided in this Act, there is to be a Valuation
Review Board consisting of not more than 30 members appointed
from time to time by the Minister.

                                                                                                           [14/2020]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
29  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

 (2) A person is not eligible to be appointed or to remain a member
of the Board if the person —

    (a) is a Member of Parliament;

    (b) is an undischarged bankrupt;

    (c) has been sentenced to imprisonment for a term exceeding
        6 months and has not suffered such punishment or received
        a free pardon; or

       (d) has a mental disorder and is incapable of managing himself
            or herself or his or her affairs.

                                                                                                           [21/2008]

 (3) The members of the Board hold office for such period as may be
determined by the Minister and are eligible for re‑appointment.

 (4) The Minister may at any time remove any member of the Board
from office without giving any reason.

 (5) The Minister may appoint from among the members of the
Board —

    (a) a Chairperson of the Board; and

    (b) such number of Deputy Chairpersons of the Board as the
         Minister thinks fit.

(6) The office of a member of the Board becomes vacant —

    (a) on the death of the member;

    (b) if the member becomes disqualified to remain a member of
         the Board;

    (c) if the member is adjudicated a bankrupt; or

    (d) if the member resigns his or her office and the resignation
         has been accepted by the Minister.

 (7) On the death, disqualification, bankruptcy, resignation or
revocation of the appointment of the Chairperson, any Deputy
Chairperson or any member of the Board, the Minister may appoint a
new Chairperson, Deputy Chairperson or member (as the case may
be) who is to hold office for so long as the Chairperson, Deputy

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    30

Chairperson or member in whose place he or she is appointed would
have held office.

 (7A) The Minister may appoint any Deputy Chairperson of the
Board as a temporary Chairperson of the Board during the temporary
incapacity (from illness or otherwise) or absence of the Chairperson
of the Board.

                                                                                 [Act 3 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 (8) Every member of the Board is deemed to be a public servant
within the meaning of the Penal Code 1871.

Fees and allowances to members

 24. The Chairperson, Deputy Chairpersons and other members of
the Board are to be paid such fees and allowances as the Minister may
determine.

                                                                                 [Act 3 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Secretary to Board

 25. The Minister may appoint a secretary or secretaries to the Board
and such other officers and employees of the Board as may be
necessary.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

Board’s powers, etc., may be exercised by committee or single
member

 26.—(1) All the powers, functions and duties of the Board may be
exercised, discharged and performed by any committee of the Board
consisting of at least 3 members of the Board appointed by the
Chairperson of the Board, at least one of whom must be the
Chairperson of the Board or a Deputy Chairperson of the Board.

 (2) However, the Chairperson of the Board may, having regard to
the facts and circumstances of a particular case, appoint a single
member of the Board, being the Chairperson or a Deputy Chairperson
of the Board, to exercise, discharge and perform the powers,
functions and duties of the Board for that case.

 (3) Any act, finding or decision of any such committee or member
is deemed to be the act, finding or decision of the Board, and (unless

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
31  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

the context otherwise requires) any reference to the Board in this Act
is to such committee or member.

 (4) The secretary must inform each member appointed under
subsection (1) or (2) of his or her appointment, and it is the duty of the
member to attend any proceedings specified by the secretary.

                                                                                 [Act 3 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 27. [Repealed by Act 3 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Casting vote

 28. All matters coming before the Board or a committee of the
Board at any meeting must be decided by a majority of votes of the
members present and, in the event of an equality of votes, the
Chairperson of the Board, the Deputy Chairperson of the Board or
such other member as may be presiding (as the case may be) has a
second or casting vote.

Notice of appeal

 29.—(1) Any owner who desires to appeal under section 20A or 22
must lodge a notice of appeal with the secretary, within the time
prescribed under this Act.

 (2) The notice of appeal must be made in the form and manner
prescribed in the regulations made under section 72(1).

 (3) Every notice of appeal must state —

       (a) the grounds on which the appeal is based;

       (b) the amendments desired; and

       (c) whether the appellant desires to be heard in person or by an
            agent authorised by the appellant in writing.

 (4) The Chairperson may, in his or her discretion and on such terms
as he or she thinks fit, permit any person to proceed with an appeal
even though the notice of appeal was not lodged within the time
allowed, if it is proved to the satisfaction of the Chairperson that the
person was prevented from lodging the notice in due time owing to
absence from Singapore, sickness or other reasonable cause, and that
there has been no unreasonable delay on the person’s part.

                                                                                 [Act 3 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    32

Copy of notice to be sent to Chief Assessor, etc.

 30.—(1) On receipt of a notice of appeal, the secretary must
immediately forward one copy thereof to the Chief Assessor or the
Comptroller, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (2) On receipt of the copy of the notice of appeal, the Chief
Assessor or the Comptroller may require the owner giving the notice
of appeal to furnish such particulars in respect of the property
concerned as the Chief Assessor or the Comptroller (as the case may
be) may consider necessary.

31. [Repealed by Act 33 of 2002]

Hearing of appeals

 32.—(1) On receipt of a notice of appeal, the secretary must —

       (a) as soon as possible fix the hearing; and

       (b) not later than 14 days before the hearing (or such shorter
            period as the parties, being the appellant and the Chief
            Assessor or the Comptroller (as the case may be) may
            agree), give notice of the hearing of the appeal to the
            parties.

 (2) The appellant (or his or her representative) and the
representative of the Chief Assessor or the Comptroller (as the
case may be) must attend the hearing of the appeal.

 (3) The Board may for any reasonable cause postpone the hearing
of an appeal for such reasonable time as the Board thinks necessary.

 (4) Regulations made under section 72(1) may provide for the
conduct of proceedings before the Board through electronic
communication, video conferencing, tele-conferencing or other
electronic means, under specified circumstances.

 (5) A member of the Board before whom proceedings are
conducted in the manner described in subsection (4) in those
specified circumstances is deemed to be present and sitting at those
proceedings.

                                                                                 [Act 3 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
33               Property Tax Act 1960                       2020 Ed.

Powers of Board

33.—(1) The Board, after hearing an appeal, may —

    (a) in the case of an appeal made under section 20A, dismiss
         the appeal or direct that such amendments as it thinks
         proper be made to the Valuation List for the year in respect
         of which the appeal was made and for the ensuing years;
         and

       (b) in the case of an appeal made under section 22, confirm,
            vary or rescind the decision of the Comptroller.

                                                                                                           [38/2017]

 (2) The costs of an appeal to the Board under this Act are in the
discretion of the Board and are to either be fixed by the Board or, on
the order of the Board, be assessed by the Registrar, Deputy Registrar
or an Assistant Registrar of the Supreme Court or the State Courts in
accordance with the regulations made under section 72(1).

                                                                                                             [5/2014]

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

 (3) Where the Board awards costs against an appellant, such costs
are to be added to any tax payable by the appellant and are
recoverable as if the costs were part of the tax payable in respect of
the property.

 (4) Where under subsection (1) the Board directs such amendments
as it thinks proper to be made to the Valuation List and the tax in
respect of the property concerned is less than the amount paid by the
appellant to account of tax in respect of that property, the Board may
order the Comptroller to pay interest, from the date the decision of the
Board is first pronounced, at such rate as may be prescribed on the
difference between the amount paid to account of tax and the tax
payable in respect of that property.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

Hearing of appeal by committee where member becomes
unavailable

 33A.—(1) This section applies to an appeal before a committee of
the Board, and a reference in this section to a member of the Board is
to a member of the Board that is part of the committee.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    34

(2) Despite anything in this Part, if —

(a) in the course of an appeal or in the case of a reserved
     judgment in any appeal; or

(b) after an appeal has been determined but before the making
     of any ancillary order,

the office of a member of the Board becomes vacant under
section 23(6), a member of the Board is removed from office
under section 23(4), or a member of the Board is unable because of
illness or any other cause, to continue to hear or determine the appeal
or to make the ancillary order, the remaining members of the Board
(if 2 or more) must hear or determine the appeal or make the ancillary
order, unless any party objects.

 (3) In subsection (2), the Board is deemed to be duly constituted for
the purposes of the appeal despite the vacancy of the member’s office,
or the member’s removal from office or inability to act.

(4) Despite section 28, in a case under subsection (2) —

(a) where there are more than 2 members of the Board
     remaining, the appeal is to be decided or the ancillary order
     is to be made in accordance with the decision of the
     majority of the remaining members and, if there is an
     equality of votes, the Chairperson of the Board or, in the
     Chairperson’s absence, the member presiding has a second
     or casting vote; or

(b) where there are only 2 members of the Board remaining,
     the appeal is to be decided or the ancillary order is to be
     made in accordance with the unanimous decision of both
     members.

(5) In the case in subsection (2)(a), the appeal must be reheard —

(a) if any party objects to the proceedings continuing before
     the remaining members of the Board under subsection (2);
     or

(b) if the appeal is heard or determined by only 2 remaining
     members of the Board and they are unable to reach a
     unanimous decision.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
35  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

 (6) In the case in subsection (2)(b), another committee of the Board
(which may include the remaining members of the Board) is to be
constituted under section 26(1) to make the ancillary order if —

    (a) any party objects to the remaining members of the Board
         making the ancillary order; or

    (b) the order is to be made by only 2 remaining members of the
         Board and they are unable to reach a unanimous decision.

                                                                          [Act 3 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Hearing of appeal by single member where member becomes
unavailable

 33B.—(1) Despite anything in this Part, if an appeal is before a
single member of the Board, and —

       (a) in the course of an appeal or in the case of a reserved
            judgment in any appeal; or

       (b) after an appeal has been determined but before the making
            of any ancillary order,

the office of the member of the Board hearing the appeal becomes
vacant under section 23(6), the member is removed from office under
section 23(4), or is unable because of illness or any other cause, to
continue to hear or determine the appeal or to make the ancillary
order, the Chairperson of the Board is to appoint another member of
the Board in accordance with section 26(2) to hear and determine the
appeal or to make the ancillary order.

 (2) In the case in subsection (1)(a), the member of the Board
appointed under subsection (1) must rehear the appeal if —

       (a) any party objects to the proceedings continuing before the
            member; or

       (b) the member determines that it would be in the interests of
            justice to do so.

                                                                                 [Act 3 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Board’s decision to be final

 34. Except as provided in section 35, the decision of the Board is
final.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    36

Appeals to General Division of High Court

 35.—(1) Any owner dissatisfied with the decision made by the
Board may, within 21 days of the date of the decision, appeal to the
General Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) An appeal under subsection (1) must be by way of rehearing.

 (3) The Chief Assessor or the Comptroller (as the case may be)
may, within 21 days of the date of the decision of the Board, appeal to
the General Division of the High Court from the decision of the Board
upon any question of law or of mixed law and fact.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (4) Until such appeal has been determined by the General Division
of the High Court, the tax in respect of the property concerned is
payable and continues to be payable and recoverable in the manner
provided in this Act.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (5) Such appeal must be brought in the manner provided by the
Rules of Court.

 (6) The General Division of the High Court, after hearing an appeal,
may —

(a) dismiss the appeal or direct that such amendments as it
     thinks proper be made to the Valuation List; and

(b) confirm, vary or rescind any order made by the Board.

                                                                                                 [40/2019]

                                    PART 5

             COLLECTION AND RECOVERY OF TAX

Tax to be paid despite objection, etc.

 35A.—(1) There is payable to account of tax in respect of a
property a sum of money calculated at the prescribed rate of tax on the
basis of the annual value in the Valuation List proposed or amended
under the provisions of this Act even if —

       (a) an application for remission or exemption has been made
            under section 6(8) or (9);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
37  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

    (b) a claim has been submitted under section 8(3);

    (c) a claim for reduction has been made under section 9; or

    (d) an objection or appeal has been made under section 20A or
         22.

 (2) The sum under subsection (1) is payable and recoverable in the
same manner in which taxes are payable and recoverable under this
Act.

Penalty for non-payment of tax and enforcement of payment

 36.—(1) If any tax, whether in whole or in part, remains unpaid at
the expiry of the prescribed time, a sum not exceeding 5% of the
amount of outstanding tax is to be added thereto, and the provisions of
this Act relating to the collection and recovery of tax apply to the
collection and recovery of such sum.

 (2) The Comptroller may, where good cause is shown, remit the
whole or any part of the penalty due under subsection (1).

Tax may be paid by instalments

 37. The Comptroller may permit any tax payable in respect of any
property under the provisions of this Act to be paid by way of
instalments and may charge interest at such rate as may be prescribed.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

Appointment of agent, etc., for recovery of tax

 38.—(1) The Comptroller may by written notice, if the Comptroller
thinks it necessary, declare any person to be the agent of any other
person, and the person so declared the agent is the agent of such other
person for the purposes of this Act.

                                                                                                           [35/2008]

 (2) The agent so declared (X) may be required to pay any tax due
from any moneys (including pensions, salary, wages or any other
remuneration) —

       (a) which, at the date of receipt of such notice, may be held by
            X for, or due by X to, or about to be paid by X to, the person
            whose agent X has been declared to be; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    38

(b) which, at any time within a period of 90 days from the
     receipt of such notice, come into X’s hands, or become due
     from X to, or about to be paid by X to, the person whose
     agent X has been declared to be,

and in default of such payment the tax is recoverable from the agent in
the manner provided in section 38A.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2) and section 38A, “tax due”
includes any arrears of tax or interest imposed under this Act.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, the Comptroller may require
any person to give the Comptroller information as to any moneys,
funds or other assets which may be held by the person for, or due by
the person to, any other person.

 (5) Where any person declared by the Comptroller to be the agent of
any other person under subsection (1) is aggrieved by such
declaration, the person may, by written notice to the Comptroller
within 14 days or within such further time as the Comptroller may
allow, object to the declaration.

 (6) The Comptroller must examine the objection and may cancel,
vary or confirm the declaration, and notify the objector accordingly.

 (7) Where the objector is aggrieved by the decision of the
Comptroller under subsection (6), the objector may appeal against
such decision to the Board within 21 days of the Comptroller
notifying the objector of the decision under subsection (6) and the
provisions of Part 4 apply with the necessary modifications.

 (8) For the purposes of payment of any tax due from any moneys
referred to in subsection (2) in a joint account at any bank or from the
proceeds of sale of any immovable property owned by 2 or more
persons as joint owners, the following provisions apply:

(a) the person declared by the Comptroller under
     subsection (1) to be the agent of any person who is an
     owner of such moneys must —

          (i) within 14 days of the receipt of the notice under
              subsection (1), send a notice by registered post
              addressed to every owner of such moneys at the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
39  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

    address last known to the agent informing the owner
    of such declaration; and

    (ii) retain such amount of the moneys as is presumed
         under paragraph (b) to be owned by the person from
         whom tax is due and, subject to paragraph (e) within
         42 days of the receipt of the notice under
         subsection (1), pay over the tax due from such
         amount to the Comptroller;

    (b) it is presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the holders
         of a joint account at any bank have equal share of the
         moneys in the account as at the date of receipt of the notice
         under subsection (1) and that the joint owners of any
         immovable property share the proceeds of sale of the
         property equally;

    (c) any owner of such moneys who objects to the share
        presumed under paragraph (b) must give written notice of
        the owner’s objection to the person declared to be the agent
        under subsection (1) within 28 days of the receipt of the
        notice of the agent under paragraph (a)(i), or within such
        further period as the Comptroller may allow, and furnish
        proof as to the owner’s share of the moneys;

    (d) where an objection under paragraph (c) has been received,
         the person declared to be the agent must —

    (i) retain the amount of such moneys referred to in
        paragraph (a)(ii) until such time as the Comptroller,
        by notice under paragraph (e), informs the agent of
        the Comptroller’s decision on the objection; and

    (ii) inform the Comptroller of the objection within
         7 days of the receipt of the objection;

    (e) the Comptroller must consider the objection and must, by
        written notice, inform the person declared to be the agent
        of the Comptroller’s decision and the agent must, despite
        any appeal under paragraph (f), pay over any tax due from
        the share of moneys decided by the Comptroller as the
        amount, not exceeding the amount presumed under

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    40

          paragraph (b) to be the share of the person by whom the tax
          is payable, held by the agent for or due by the agent to the
          person; and

          (f) any owner of such moneys aggrieved by the decision of the
              Comptroller under paragraph (e) may appeal against the
              decision to the Board within 21 days of such decision and
              the provisions of Part 4 apply, with the necessary
              modifications, to the appeal.

 (9) In subsection (8), “joint account” means any account in the
names of 2 or more persons but excludes any partnership account,
trust account and any account where a minor is one of the joint
account holders.

 (10) Where an agent makes any payment of moneys to the
Comptroller under this section —

(a) the agent is deemed to have been acting under the authority
     of the person by whom the tax is payable (called in this
     section the defaulting taxpayer);

(b) the agent is indemnified in respect of the payment to the
     Comptroller;

          (c) the amount of the tax due from the defaulting taxpayer is
              reduced by the amount paid by the agent to the
              Comptroller; and

      (d) the amount of the reduction is, to the extent of that amount,
           deemed to have been paid to the defaulting taxpayer in
           accordance with any law, contract or scheme governing the
           payment of moneys held by the agent for or due from the
           agent to the defaulting taxpayer.

                                                                                                         [35/2008]

(11) Where —

(a) an amount of tax is due from any person under this Act
     otherwise than as an agent under this section;

(b) except for this subsection, an amount is or would, at any
     time during the period of 90 days after the date of receipt of
     the notice in paragraph (c), be payable by the Government

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
41  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

    to the defaulting taxpayer by or under any written law,
    contract or scheme; and

    (c) before payment of the amount referred to in paragraph (b)
        is made to the defaulting taxpayer, the Comptroller serves
        notice on any public officer (including an employee
        appointed under section 9(3) of the Inland Revenue
        Authority of Singapore Act 1992) by whom the payment
        is to be made that the tax is due from the defaulting
        taxpayer,

then the public officer is, despite any other written law, contract or
scheme, entitled to reduce the amount referred to in paragraph (b) by
the amount of the whole or any part of the tax referred to in
paragraph (a), and if the public officer makes such a reduction —

    (d) the amount of the tax referred to in paragraph (a) is reduced
         by the amount of the reduction; and

    (e) the amount of the reduction is, to the extent of such
        amount, deemed to have been paid to the defaulting
        taxpayer in accordance with any law, contract or scheme
        governing the payment of moneys referred to in
        paragraph (b) to the defaulting taxpayer.

                                                                                         [35/2008; 21/2013]

Recovery of tax

 38A.—(1) Despite any other written law, any tax due may be sued
for by way of a specially indorsed originating claim.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2) The Comptroller may, in the Comptroller’s own name, sue for
any such tax or penalty, and is entitled to all costs allowed by law
against the person liable thereto.

 (3) The Comptroller may appear personally or by counsel in any
suit instituted under this section.

 (4) In any suit under subsection (1) or (2), the production of a
certificate signed by the Comptroller giving the name and address of
the defendant and the amount of tax due from him or her is sufficient
evidence of the amount so due and sufficient authority for the court to
give judgment for that amount.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    42

Proceedings for recovery of arrears

 39.—(1) For the recovery of arrears, the Comptroller has and may
exercise, either successively or concurrently, in addition to any other
remedies conferred by this Act, either or both of the following
powers:

(a) the Comptroller may issue a warrant of attachment and
     may seize by virtue thereof any movable property and
     crops of any person liable to pay the arrears and may also
     seize any movable property or any crops to whomsoever
     belonging which are found on the premises in respect of
     which the arrears are due and may, after service of the
     prescribed notice, sell the property by public auction or in
     such manner as may be prescribed;

(b) the Comptroller may, by notice of sale to be served or
     published in the prescribed manner, declare the
     Comptroller’s intention of selling, at the expiry of
     3 months from the date of the notice of sale, the
     premises in respect of which the arrears are due and, if,
     at the expiry of that period, the arrears have not been paid
     or satisfied, the Comptroller may sell by public auction, in
     lots or otherwise, the whole of such premises or such
     portion thereof or such interest therein as the Comptroller
     considers sufficient for the recovery of the arrears and
     costs.

 (2) The Comptroller must not proceed under subsection (1)(b) to
sell the premises in respect of which the arrears are due, or any
portion thereof or interest therein, where there is or are upon the
premises and liable to be seized and sold under subsection (1)(a)
movable property or crops belonging to the owner of a value
estimated by the Comptroller to be sufficient to realise the sum
required to satisfy the arrears and costs.

 (3) Any tenant, subtenant or occupier (X) who, in order to avoid the
seizure or sale of X’s property for non‑payment of arrears payable by
the owner of the premises, pays the arrears and costs may thereafter,
in the absence of any written agreement to the contrary, deduct the
amount so paid by X from the rent due or to become due by X to X’s

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
43  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

immediate landlord on account of the premises or such part thereof as
is held or occupied by X, and may retain possession thereof until that
amount has been fully reimbursed to X whether by deduction from the
rent or otherwise.

 (4) Any tenant or subtenant (X) who has reimbursed (whether by
allowing a deduction from the rent or otherwise) any subtenant or
occupier (Y) holding or occupying under X the amount so paid by Y
has a similar right to deduct that amount from the rent due or to
become due to X’s immediate landlord and to retain possession until
similarly reimbursed.

 (5) The receipt of the Comptroller or of any duly authorised officer
of his or her department for any amount so paid by any such tenant,
subtenant or occupier is deemed an acquittance in full for the like
amount of rent.

 (6) If any premises in respect of which arrears are due, or any such
movable property or crops as are mentioned in subsection (1) or the
proceeds of sale thereof are already in the custody of the law under
any enforcement order whereby the Comptroller is unable to exercise
the powers under this section, the Comptroller may notify the Sheriff
or the bailiff of the court concerned of the amount of the arrears, and
is entitled without obtaining a judgment to be paid such amount out of
the proceeds of sale of that premises or property in priority to the
judgment debtor and to the judgment creditor and to any other
creditor, except the Government.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (7) A certificate from the Comptroller is, unless it is disputed by the
judgment debtor, conclusive evidence of the amount of the arrears,
and in case of dispute, the amount is to be summarily determined by
the court concerned.

 (8) Where premises are sold under subsection (1)(b), the
Comptroller has power to execute the conveyance and the
purchaser of the premises must not be concerned to inquire
whether the provisions of this Act relating to the sale and the
conveyance have been complied with nor otherwise to inquire into
the regularity or validity of the sale and conveyance.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.              Property Tax Act 1960                        44

(9) Subsection (8) —

(a) is deemed to apply to all conveyances executed by the
     Comptroller before 17 August 1973, and all such
     conveyances so executed are accordingly deemed always
     to have been or to be validly executed; and

(b) does not affect the application of section 144 of the Land
     Titles Act 1993 in relation to registered land.

Attachment

 40.—(1) The attachment mentioned in section 39(1)(a) may be
made by a person appointed for the purpose by the Comptroller who
must publicly notify the attachment in the prescribed manner and
must take an inventory of the property attached.

 (2) Such person is deemed to be a public servant within the meaning
of the Penal Code 1871.

 (3) Such person may break open in the daytime any house or
building for the purpose of effecting the attachment.

Application of proceeds

 41.—(1) The proceeds of a sale under section 39(1) must be applied
in the first place in satisfaction of the arrears together with interest
thereon at such rate as may be prescribed and costs.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (2) Where there is any surplus remaining thereafter, the
Comptroller must, if satisfied as to the right of any person
claiming the surplus, pay the amount thereof to the person or, if
not so satisfied, must hold the amount in trust for the person who may
ultimately succeed in due course of law in establishing the person’s
title thereto.

 (3) If no title is established to such surplus within a period of 5 years
from the date of the sale, it must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

Title conferred by purchase at sale under section 39(1)(b)

 42.—(1) The purchaser at a sale held under section 39(1)(b) is
deemed to have acquired the right or property offered for sale free

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
45  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

from all encumbrances created over it and from all subordinate
interests derived from it except such as are expressly reserved by the
Comptroller at the time of sale.

 (2) The Comptroller must notify in the Gazette the result of the sale
and the conveyance to the purchaser of the right or property offered
for sale.

Cost of proceedings for recovery of arrears

 43. All costs and expenses incurred in the recovery of arrears may
be recovered as if they formed part of the arrears.

Power to stop sale

 44. If any person having any interest in any property liable to be
sold at any time previous to the sale tenders to the Comptroller the
arrears with interest and costs, the Comptroller must thereupon desist
from all further proceedings in respect thereof.

Application to court

 45.—(1) If any person whose movable property, crops or premises
have been attached or advertised for sale disputes the propriety of the
attachment or sale, the person may apply to the General Division of
the High Court or, when the arrears do not exceed $1,000, to a District
Court for an order to stay the proceedings.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) The court, after hearing the Comptroller and making such
further inquiry as is necessary, is to make such order as it thinks fit.

Security to be given

 46. No application is to be entertained by the court under section 45
unless the applicant has deposited in court the amount of arrears and
costs or given security for the same to the satisfaction of the court.

Liability for payment of taxes of transferor who has not given
notice

 47.—(1) Every person who sells or transfers any taxable property
continues to be liable for the payment of all taxes payable in respect
of the property and for the performance of all other obligations

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    46

imposed by this Act upon the owner of the property which become
payable or are to be performed at any time before the notice of
transfer as is required by section 19 has been given.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not affect the liability of the purchaser or
transferee to pay the taxes in respect of such property or affect the
right of the Comptroller to recover such taxes or to enforce any
obligation under this Act.

Assessment, etc., not to be impeached for want of form

 48.—(1) If the provisions of this Act are in substance and effect
complied with, no assessment or valuation, no charge or demand of
any tax and no seizure or sale under the authority of this Act may be
impeached or is affected by reason of any mistake in —

       (a) the name of any person liable to pay the tax;

       (b) the description of any property or thing liable to the tax; or

       (c) the amount of assessment or the mode of seizure and sale.

 (2) No proceedings under this Act for the recovery of any taxes may
be quashed or set aside in any court for want of form or procedure.

                                    PART 6

             NAMES AND NUMBERS OF BUILDINGS,
                          ESTATES OR STREETS

Street and Building Names Board

 49.—(1) A Street and Building Names Board (called in this Part the
SBNB) is established, consisting of a Chairperson and at least 2 other
members all of whom are to be appointed by the Minister.

 (2) The SBNB has the following functions and duties:

       (a) to determine the name by which any building, estate or
            street is to be known, or to alter the name of any building,
            estate or street;

       (b) such other functions and duties as may be conferred by this
            Act on the SBNB.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
47  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

 (3) The Chairperson and the other members of the SBNB hold
office for such period as may be determined by the Minister and are
eligible for re‑appointment.

 (4) The Minister may, without giving any reason, remove from
office any member of the SBNB.

 (5) All matters coming before the SBNB at any meeting must be
decided by a majority of votes of the members present, and in the
event of an equality of votes, the Chairperson has a casting vote.

 (6) Any person aggrieved by any decision of the SBNB may, within
21 days of the date of the written notice of the decision, apply in
writing to the SBNB to review the decision, stating the grounds on
which the person’s application is based.

 (7) Any person who is dissatisfied with the decision of the SBNB
after a review under subsection (6) may, within 21 days of the date of
the written notice of the decision, appeal in writing to the Minister
stating the grounds on which the person’s appeal is based.

 (8) The Minister may confirm, vary or rescind the decision referred
to him or her under subsection (7) and the decision of the Minister is
final.

 (9) Except for its function and duty referred to in subsection (2)(a),
the SBNB may authorise any officer in the employment of a statutory
authority which has been approved by the Minister for the purpose of
this subsection to assist the SBNB in performing any of the functions
and duties of the SBNB under this Act.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

Name of building, estate or street

 50. The SBNB may cause the name of any building, estate or street
to be painted, or otherwise marked, in a conspicuous position on any
house, building or erection in or near that building, estate or street,
and from time to time alter or renew the name.

Numbers on properties

 51.—(1) The Comptroller may allot a number to or alter the number
of any property and may require the owner of the property to fix the
number in a conspicuous place on the outside of the property or at the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    48

entrance of the enclosure of the property, or change, replace or refix
the number within a prescribed time.

 (2) The Comptroller may, if he or she thinks fit, undertake the
fixing, changing, replacing or refixing of the number of the property
and the expense of such fixing, changing, replacing or refixing is to
be determined by the Comptroller and paid by the owner of the
property.

Penalty for numbering or naming property, estate or street
without authority of Comptroller or SBNB

 52.—(1) The allotting or fixing of a number or the giving or fixing
of a name to or on any building which has been erected in
contravention of any written law does not prevent the person who
has contravened such law from being prosecuted thereunder and from
being liable to the penalty under that law, or the unauthorised building
from being demolished under that law.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (2) Any person who —

       (a) without the authority of the Comptroller, allots a number to
            any property or fixes or causes to be fixed a number on or
            near any property or at the entrance of the enclosure
            thereof; or

       (b) without the authority of the SBNB, gives a name to any
            building, estate or street or fixes or causes to be fixed a
            name to any building, structure or post in or near that
            building, estate or street,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $1,000, and the Comptroller or the SBNB (as the case
may be) may, whether or not any proceedings have been instituted
against any person for a contravention of this subsection, without
notice authorise any person to enter upon any property to remove or
destroy such number or name.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (3) For the purposes of instituting proceedings under
subsection (2), the act of —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
49  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

    (a) allotting an unauthorised number to any property, or fixing
         or causing to be fixed such number on or near any property;
         or

    (b) giving an unauthorised name to any building, estate or
         street or fixing or causing to be fixed such name on any
         building, structure or post in or near that building, estate or
         street,

is, until the contrary is proved, presumed to have been done —

    (c) by the person who erects or sells the property if the person
        who actually allots, gives or fixes the unauthorised number
        or name is not known or cannot be found in Singapore; and

    (d) by the owner or occupier of the property if the person who
         erects or sells the property and the person who actually
         allots, gives or fixes the unauthorised number or name are
         not known or cannot be found in Singapore.

 (4) The Comptroller or the SBNB (as the case may be) may,
whether or not any proceedings have been instituted against any
person for contravention of subsection (2) in respect of any property,
by written order require the owner or occupier to remove any
unauthorised number or name fixed on or near the property.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (5) Any person who fails to comply with an order under
subsection (4) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $50 for every day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

Penalty for destroying name or number

 53.—(1) Any person who destroys, pulls down, defaces, covers or
conceals any inscription of the name of a building, an estate or a street
which has lawfully been set up or sets up on any house, building,
structure or post in or near that building, estate or street any other
name different from the name lawfully given to the building, estate or
street, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
a fine not exceeding $1,000.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    50

 (2) The expense of replacing or refixing any such name which has
been destroyed, pulled down, defaced, covered or concealed must be
paid by the person convicted of destroying, pulling down, defacing,
covering or concealing the name, as the case may be.

 (3) Any person who destroys, pulls down, defaces, covers or
conceals the number of any house or building which has been
lawfully set up or sets up in any house or building any number
different from the number lawfully allotted to the house or building
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $1,000.

 (4) The expense of replacing or refixing any such number which
has been destroyed, pulled down, defaced, covered or concealed must
be paid by the person convicted of destroying, pulling down,
defacing, covering or concealing the number, as the case may be.

Disputed expenses to be determined by Magistrate’s Court

 54.—(1) The amount of expenses payable under section 53 is, in
case of dispute, to be summarily ascertained and determined by a
Magistrate’s Court.

 (2) If the amount of such expenses is not paid by the party liable to
pay them within 7 days after demand, the default may be reported to a
Magistrate’s Court and the amount recovered in the same way as if it
were a fine imposed by a Magistrate’s Court.

 (3) An appeal lies to the General Division of the High Court from
any decision of a Magistrate’s Court under this section, and the
provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 apply, with the
necessary modifications, to all such appeals.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Recovery of expenses and costs payable by owners

 55.—(1) The sum payable by an owner in respect of expenses under
section 51(2) is a first charge on the premises in respect of which the
expenses or costs have been incurred.

 (2) Such sum may be recovered by the same means and in like
manner as if it were a sum payable in respect of a tax remaining

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
51  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

unpaid at the expiry of the prescribed time within the meaning of
section 36.

 (3) The charge in this section attaches, and the powers and remedies
in this section become exercisable as from the date of completion of
the work, and thereafter the powers and remedies may be exercised
against the premises or against any movable property or crops for the
time being found thereon, despite any change or changes in the
ownership or occupation of the premises subsequent to that date.

                                    PART 7

                     OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

Penalty for obstructing Comptroller, etc., in carrying out his or
her duties

 56. Any person who at any time hinders or obstructs —

       (a) the Comptroller or the Chief Assessor;

       (b) any member of the SBNB; or

       (c) any other person employed in the administration of this Act
            (including any officer of a statutory authority authorised by
            the SBNB under section 49(9)),

in the performance and execution of his or her duty or of anything
which he or she is empowered or required to do by virtue of or in
consequence of this Act, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                                                [23/2010; 38/2017]

Offence to furnish false information

 57. Any person who furnishes information which the person knows
or believes to be false in any application made under this Act shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    52

Comptroller, etc., may direct prosecution

 58.—(1) The Comptroller or the Chief Assessor or such other
officer as may be authorised by the Comptroller or the Chief Assessor
in that behalf may direct any prosecution for any offence under this
Act (other than under section 52(2)(b) or (5) or 53(1) in respect of
matters relating to the naming of buildings, estates and streets) and
may authorise the incurring of such expense as may be necessary to
the prosecution.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), any officer employed in the
administration of this Act (other than an officer of a statutory
authority authorised by the SBNB under section 49(9)) may conduct
such prosecution on behalf of the Comptroller or the Chief Assessor,
as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (3) Subject to his or her being appointed or authorised by the Public
Prosecutor, any officer of a statutory authority authorised by the
SBNB under section 49(9) may conduct prosecution for any offence
under section 52(2)(b) or (5) or 53(1) in respect of matters relating to
the naming of buildings, estates and streets.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

Property tax officer may demand names and addresses in
certain cases

 59.—(1) Any person who is charged by any officer employed in the
administration of this Act (including any officer of a statutory
authority authorised by the SBNB under section 49(9)) with any
offence under this Act must give the person’s name and address to
that officer if so required.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (2) Any person who contravenes this section or misstates his or her
name and address shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

Saving of prosecutions under other laws

 60. This Act does not prevent any person from being prosecuted
under any other law for any act or omission which constitutes an

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
53  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

offence under this Act or from being liable under that other law to any
other or higher punishment or penalty than that provided by this Act,
except that no person shall be punished twice for the same offence.

General penalties

 61. Any person guilty of an offence under this Act for which no
penalty is expressly provided shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000.

Jurisdiction of court

 62.—(1) A District Court or a Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to
hear and determine all offences under this Act and, despite anything
to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, has power to
impose the full penalty or punishment in respect of the offence.

 (2) All fines imposed for any offence under this Act must be paid
into the Consolidated Fund.

Composition of offences

 63.—(1) The Comptroller or the SBNB (as the case may be) may
compound any offence under this Act by collecting from a person
reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum not
exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (2) The Comptroller or the SBNB (as the case may be) before
making any offer of composition under subsection (1) must consider
the nature of the offence and the circumstances under which the
offence was committed.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (3) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    54

          PART 8

          MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Power to enter upon lands for purposes of this Act

 64.—(1) For the purposes of carrying out in good faith the
functions and duties of the SBNB under this Act —

(a) a member of the SBNB; or

(b) an officer of a statutory authority authorised by the SBNB
     under section 49(9),

may at all reasonable hours in the daytime enter any building or land.

                                                                                                           [38/2017]

 (2) The member of the SBNB or the officer of a statutory authority
authorised by the SBNB must not enter into any dwelling house in
actual occupation, unless with the consent of the occupier thereof,
without 6 hours’ previous notice to the occupier.

                                                                                                [23/2010; 38/2017]

Power of Comptroller, etc., to obtain information and
furnishing of information

 64A.—(1) The Comptroller, the Chief Assessor or an officer
authorised by either of them in that behalf —

       (a) is entitled at all times to full and free access to all
            properties, documents, computers, computer programs and
            computer software (whether installed in a computer or
            otherwise) for any of the purposes of this Act;

       (b) is entitled to access to any information, code or technology
            which has the capability of retransforming or unscrambling
            encrypted data contained in or available to such computers
            into readable and comprehensive format or text for any of
            the purposes of this Act;

       (c) is entitled —

               (i) without fee or reward, to inspect, copy or take
                   extracts from any such document, computer,
                   computer program, computer software or computer
                   output; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
55  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

    (ii) at any reasonable time to inspect and check the
         operation of any computer, device, apparatus or
         material which is or has been in use in connection
         with anything to which this section applies;

    (d) may take possession of any such document, computer,
         device, apparatus, material, computer program or
         computer software where in his or her opinion —

    (i) the inspection, checking or copying of such item or
        extraction from such item cannot reasonably be
        performed without taking possession;

    (ii) any such item may be interfered with or destroyed
         unless possession is taken; or

    (iii) any such item may be required as evidence in
          proceedings for an offence under this Act or in
          proceedings for the recovery of tax or penalty, or in
          proceedings by way of an appeal against an
          assessment;

    (e) is entitled to require —

    (i) the person by whom or on whose behalf the
        computer is or has been used, or any person having
        charge of, or otherwise concerned with the operation
        of the computer, device, apparatus or material, to
        provide the Comptroller, the Chief Assessor or the
        officer with such reasonable assistance as he or she
        may require for the purposes of this section; and

    (ii) any person in possession of decryption information
         to grant the Comptroller, the Chief Assessor or the
         officer access to such decryption information that is
         necessary to decrypt data required for the purposes of
         this section; and

    (f) is entitled to require a person in or at the property, and who
        appears to the Comptroller, the Chief Assessor or the
        officer to be acquainted with any facts or circumstances
        concerning the person’s or another person’s property —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    56

          (i) to answer any question to the best of that person’s
              knowledge, information and belief; or

              (ii) to take reasonable steps to produce a document for
                   inspection.

                                                                                                           [38/2017]

 (2) The Comptroller, the Chief Assessor or an officer authorised by
either of them in that behalf, may by notice require any person to give
orally, in writing, or through the electronic service, as may be
required, all such information concerning the person’s or any other
person’s property as may be demanded of the person by the
Comptroller, the Chief Assessor or the officer (as the case may be)
for the purposes of this Act.

                                                                                                           [38/2017]

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, the Comptroller, the Chief
Assessor or an officer authorised by either of them in that behalf, may
by notice require any person to attend personally before the
Comptroller, the Chief Assessor or an officer authorised by the
Comptroller or the Chief Assessor in that behalf, at a place and time
specified in the notice to do one or both of the following:

(a) provide, to the best of that person’s knowledge,
     information and belief, any information concerning the
     person’s or any other person’s property;

       (b) take reasonable steps to produce for inspection a document
            concerning the property.

                                                                                                           [38/2017]

 (4) To avoid doubt, section 65(1) does not apply to a notice under
subsection (2) or (3).

                                                                                                           [38/2017]

 (5) The power to require a person to provide information or produce
a document under subsection (1)(f) or (2), or when in attendance
before the Comptroller, the Chief Assessor, or an authorised officer
pursuant to a notice under subsection (3), includes the power —

(a) to require that person, or any person who is or was an
     officer or employee of that person, to provide an
     explanation of the information or document;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
57  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

    (b) if the information is not provided or the document is not
         produced, to require that person to state, to the best of the
         person’s knowledge and belief, where it is;

    (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
        form, to require the information to be made available to the
        Comptroller, the Chief Assessor or the authorised officer
        (as the case may be) in legible form; and

    (d) in the case of a document, to inspect, copy or take extracts
         from the document without fee or reward, and to take
         possession of the document if in the opinion of the
         Comptroller, the Chief Assessor or the authorised
         officer —

    (i) the inspection, copying or extraction cannot
        reasonably be performed without taking possession
        of the document;

    (ii) the document may be interfered with or destroyed
         unless possession of the document is taken; or

             (iii) the document may be required as evidence in
                   proceedings for an offence under this Act or in
                   proceedings for the recovery of tax or penalty, or in
                   proceedings by way of an appeal against an
                   assessment.

                                                                                                           [38/2017]

 (6) A statement made by any person asked under subsection (1)(f),
or in compliance with a demand for information, must —

    (a) be reduced to writing;

    (b) be read over to the person;

    (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted
        for the person in a language that the person understands;
        and

    (d) be signed by the person.

                                                             [38/2017]

 (7) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails, neglects or
refuses to comply with any notice or requirement of the Comptroller,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    58

the Chief Assessor or an officer authorised by either of them in that
behalf under this section, or with a demand for information, shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

       (b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $100 for every day or part of a day during which
            the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [38/2017]

 (8) Any person who, in purported compliance with a notice or
requirement of the Comptroller, the Chief Assessor or an officer
authorised by either of them in that behalf under this section, or with a
demand for information, produces any document which contains any
information, or provides any information, known to the person to be
false or misleading in a material particular —

(a) without indicating to the Comptroller, the Chief Assessor
     or the officer that the information is false or misleading and
     the part that is false or misleading; and

(b) without providing correct information to the Comptroller,
     the Chief Assessor or the officer if the person is in
     possession of, or can reasonably acquire, the correct
     information,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [38/2017]

 (9) A person is not obliged under this section to disclose (including
through the production of a document) any information which the
person is under any statutory obligation to observe secrecy.

                                                                                                           [38/2017]

 (10) The generality of the term “reasonable excuse” in
subsection (7) is not affected by subsection (9).

                                                                                                           [38/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
59  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

(11) In this section —

    “computer” and “computer output” have the meanings given by
       section 2(1) of the Computer Misuse Act 1993;

    “demand for information” means a demand by the Comptroller,
       the Chief Assessor or an officer authorised by either of them
       in that behalf to answer a question when in attendance before
       the Comptroller, the Chief Assessor or the officer pursuant to
       a notice under subsection (3);

    “document” includes, in addition to a written document —

    (a) any map, plan, graph or drawing;

    (b) any photograph;

    (c) any label, marking or other writing which identifies
        or describes anything of which it forms a part, or to
        which it is attached by any means;

    (d) any disc, tape, soundtrack or other device in which
         sounds or other data (not being visual images) are
         embodied so as to be capable (with or without the aid
         of some other equipment) of being reproduced from
         it;

    (e) any film (including microfilm), negative, tape, disc
        or other device in which one or more visual images
        are embodied so as to be capable (with or without the
        aid of some other equipment) of being reproduced
        from it; and

    (f) any paper or other material on which there are marks,
        impressions, figures, letters, symbols or perforations
        having a meaning for persons qualified to interpret
        them;

    “writing” includes any mode of representing or reproducing
       words, figures, drawings or symbols in a visible form.

                                          [38/2017; 9/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    60

Protection of informers

 64B.—(1) Except as provided in subsection (3), no witness in any
civil or criminal proceedings commenced on or after 16 November
2021 is obliged or permitted —

(a) to disclose the identity of an informer who has given any
     information (whether the information is given before, on or
     after that date) with respect to an offence under this Act; or

       (b) to answer any question if the answer to the question would
            lead, or would tend to lead, to the discovery of the identity
            of the informer.

                                                                                                           [27/2021]

 (2) If any document which is in evidence or liable to inspection in
any civil or criminal proceedings contains any entry in which any
informer is named or described or which may lead to the discovery of
the informer’s identity, the court must cause the entry to be concealed
from view or to be obliterated so far only as may be necessary to
protect the informer from discovery.

                                                                                                           [27/2021]

 (3) If —

(a) in any proceedings for an offence under any written law,
     the court, after full enquiry into the case, believes that the
     informer wilfully made a material statement which the
     informer knew or believed to be false or did not believe to
     be true; or

(b) in any other proceedings, the court is of the opinion that
     justice cannot be fully done between the parties to the
     proceedings without the discovery of the informer,

the court may permit enquiry and require full disclosure concerning
the informer.

                                                                                                           [27/2021]

 (4) In this section, a reference to civil proceedings includes any
proceedings before the Valuation Review Board.

                                                                                                           [27/2021]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
61  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

Receipts, notices, etc., may be given by authorised officer

 65.—(1) All notices, orders, receipts, warrants and other
documents of whatsoever nature which the Comptroller or the
Chief Assessor, or the SBNB, is empowered to give by this Act may
be given by any employee authorised thereunto by the Comptroller or
the Chief Assessor, or by any officer of a statutory authority
authorised by the SBNB under section 49(9), as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

 (2) Where any such notice, order, warrant or document requires
authentication, the signature or a facsimile thereof affixed thereunto
of —

    (a) the Comptroller or the Chief Assessor or any employee
         authorised thereunto by the Comptroller or the Chief
         Assessor; or

    (b) any member of the SBNB or officer of a statutory authority
         authorised by the SBNB under section 49(9),

as the case may be, is sufficient authentication.

                                                             [23/2010]

 (3) Where any notice, order or document is served on any person
through the electronic service in accordance with the regulations
made under section 66(2), the notice, order or document is deemed to
be sufficiently authenticated if it is served on the person by the
transmission of an electronic record of it to the person’s account with
the electronic service.

                                                                                                           [38/2017]

                           [Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

Use of electronic service

 66.—(1) Any person who is required to file or submit any return or
document may do so through the electronic service.

 (2) The Minister may make regulations for the purposes of this
section and section 67(1)(d), prescribing —

       (a) the circumstances in which the Comptroller or the Chief
            Assessor may serve any notice, order or other document
            through the electronic service on a person assigned an
            account with the electronic service; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    62

(b) the manner in which a person who has been served through
     the electronic service with any notice, order or other
     document is to be notified of the transmission of an
     electronic record of it to the person’s account with the
     electronic service.

(3) Regulations made for the purpose of subsection (2) —

(a) may provide for service of any notice, order or document
     through the electronic service in circumstances where —

          (i) the person consents to such service; or

          (ii) the Comptroller or the Chief Assessor (as the case
               may be) gives the person notice of the Comptroller’s
               or the Chief Assessor’s intention of such service and
               the person does not refuse such service;

(b) may provide for the giving of any notice of the
     Comptroller’s or the Chief Assessor’s intention, or the
     person’s consent or refusal, mentioned in paragraph (a),
     including —

          (i) the matters that must be contained in the notice; and

          (ii) the time within which, and the form and manner in
               which, the consent or refusal must be received by the
               Comptroller or the Chief Assessor;

          (c) may provide when the consent or refusal of the person
              takes effect and when the Comptroller or the Chief
              Assessor must give effect to such consent or refusal; and

(d) may provide for any other matter necessary or incidental to
     the purposes in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) and
     subsection (2)(a).

 (4) The Comptroller may, for the purposes of the electronic service,
approve the use of any symbol, code, abbreviation or notation to
represent any particulars or information required under this Act.

                                                                               [Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
63  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

Service of notices, etc.

 67.—(1) Every notice, order or document required or authorised by
this Act to be served on any person may be served —

    (a) by delivering it to that person or to some adult member or
         employee of his or her family at his or her last known place
         of residence;

    (b) by leaving it at the person’s usual or last known place of
         residence or business in an envelope addressed to the
         person;

    (c) by sending it by ordinary post addressed to the person at
        the person’s usual or last known place of residence or
        business; or

       (d) through the electronic service in accordance with
            regulations made under section 66(2), by transmitting an
            electronic record of it to the person’s account with the
            electronic service.

                                                                                                           [38/2017]

                                                                               [Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

 (2) Where any notice, order or document is served on any person
through the electronic service under subsection (1)(d), the notice,
order or document is taken to have been served at the time when an
electronic record of it enters the person’s account with the electronic
service.

                                                                                                           [38/2017]

 (3) Despite subsections (1) and (2), no person shall be liable to
prosecution for an offence —

    (a) under section 16(2), 21(13) or 64A(7) in respect of failure
         to comply with the terms of a notice;

    (b) under section 18(3) in respect of failure or neglect to
         furnish a return required to be made pursuant to a notice
         under section 18(2); or

    (c) under section 52(5) in respect of failure to comply with a
        written order under section 52(4),

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    64

unless the notice or order (as the case may be) has been served on the
person personally or by registered post.

                                                                                                           [38/2017]

 (4) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by this
Act to be served on the owner or occupier of any premises is deemed
to be properly addressed if addressed by the description of the
“owner” or “occupier” of the premises without further name or
description.

 (5) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by this
Act to be served on the owner or occupier of any premises may be
served by delivering the same or a true copy thereof to some adult
person on the premises or, if there is no such person on the premises
to whom the same can with reasonable diligence be delivered, by
affixing the notice, order or document to some conspicuous part of
the premises.

 (6) Where any premises is owned by more than one person, any
notice, order or document required or authorised by this Act to be
served on the owner of such premises is deemed to be sufficiently
served if it is served on any one of the owners, except that where any
such owner has notified the Chief Assessor in the prescribed form,
that owner must be served a copy of such notice, order or document.

Service of summons

 68.—(1) Every summons issued by a court against any person in
connection with any offence under this Act, may be served on the
person —

       (a) by delivering the summons to the person or to some adult
            member of his or her family at his or her last known place
            of residence;

       (b) by leaving the summons at the person’s usual or last known
            place of residence or business in an envelope addressed to
            the person;

       (c) by sending the summons by registered post addressed to
            the person at the person’s usual or last known place of
            residence or business;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
65  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

    (d) where the person is a body of persons, corporate or
         unincorporate —

    (i) by delivering the summons to the secretary or other
        similar officer of the body of persons at its registered
        office or principal place of business; or

    (ii) by sending the summons by registered post
         addressed to the body of persons at its registered
         office or principal place of business.

 (2) Any summons sent by registered post in accordance with
subsection (1) is deemed to be duly served on the person to whom the
letter is addressed at the time when the letter would, in the ordinary
course of post, be delivered and in proving service of the summons, it
is sufficient to prove that the envelope containing the summons was
properly addressed, stamped and posted by registered post.

Notice to attend court

 68A.—(1) Where the Comptroller has reasonable grounds to
believe that a person has committed an offence under this Act that
is punishable by a fine or by an imprisonment term not exceeding
12 months or both, the Comptroller may, in lieu of applying to a court
for a summons, serve on that person a written notice, containing such
information as may be prescribed by regulations made under
section 72, requiring that person to attend at the court described, at
the time and on the date specified in the notice.

 (2) The Comptroller must, if so required by a court, produce a copy
of the notice to the court.

 (3) The notice may be served on the person alleged to have
committed the offence in the manner provided in section 68, as if it
were a summons issued by a court.

 (4) On a person appearing before a court pursuant to such notice,
the court is to proceed as though the person were produced before the
court under section 153 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

 (5) If a person on whom such notice has been served fails to appear
before a court in accordance with the notice, the court may, if satisfied
that the notice was duly served —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    66

(a) issue a warrant for the arrest of the person, unless that
     person has before that date been permitted to compound
     the offence; or

(b) proceed with the matter in the absence of the person
     pursuant to section 156 of the Criminal Procedure
     Code 2010, and a reference in that section to a summons
     or notice to attend court is to a written notice served under
     this section.

 (6) Upon a person arrested pursuant to a warrant issued under
subsection (5)(a) being produced before a court, the court is to
proceed as though the person were produced under section 153 of the
Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

 (7) The Comptroller may, at any time before the date specified in
the notice, cancel the notice.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2023 wef 01/01/2024]

Tax remission

 69. The Minister may remit wholly or in part, the tax payable by
any person —

       (a) on the ground of poverty; or

       (b) if the Minister is satisfied that it is just and equitable to do
            so.

Inaccuracies in documents

 70. No misnomer or inaccurate description of any person, premises,
building, holding, street or place named or described in any document
prepared, issued or served under, by virtue of or for the purposes of
this Act in any way affects the operation of this Act as respects that
person or place if that person or place is so designated in the
document as to be identifiable, and no proceedings taken by virtue of
this Act are invalid for want of form.

Evidence

 71.—(1) The contents of any document prepared, issued or served
under or for the purposes of this Act are, until the contrary is proved,
presumed to be correct and the production of any book purporting to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
67  Property Tax Act 1960                                    2020 Ed.

contain any tax, valuation or assessment made by virtue of this Act is,
without any other evidence whatever, prima facie evidence of the
making and validity of the tax, valuation or assessment mentioned
therein.

 (2) All records, registers and other documents required by this Act
to be kept by the Comptroller or the Chief Assessor or any officer
employed in the administration of this Act are deemed to be public
documents and copies or extracts certified by the Comptroller or the
Chief Assessor or by an officer responsible for the custody thereof to
be true copies or extracts (as the case may be) subscribed by the
Comptroller or the Chief Assessor or such officer with his or her
name and his or her official title are admissible in evidence as proof of
the contents of that document or extract thereof.

Regulations

 72.—(1) The appropriate Minister may make regulations for
carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Act for which the
Minister is responsible —

       (a) providing for the form and manner in which appeals are to
            be made to the Board;

       (b) providing for when an objection to the appointment of a
            member under section 26(1) or (2) to hear an appeal may
            be made, and how such objection is to be dealt with;

       (c) providing for the procedure to be adopted by the Board for
            the Board’s meetings and for proceedings before the
            Board, and the records to be kept by the Board;

       (d) prescribing the fees to be paid in respect of any appeal
            under Part 4;

       (e) prescribing the costs in respect of appeals to the Board;

        (f) providing for any matter which the Minister considers
            incidental or expedient for the proper and efficient conduct
            of proceedings before the Board;

       (g) providing that the Chairperson or a Deputy Chairperson of
            the Board may issue directions for carrying out any
            regulations;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Property Tax Act 1960                                    68

(h) providing for any other matter that is necessary or
     convenient for carrying out or giving effect to the
     provisions of Part 4;

          (i) prescribing the forms or any other matter required or
              permitted to be prescribed by this Act;

          (j) prescribing the manner in which a notice of appeal may be
              amended;

          (k) providing for the procedure of, and other matter relating to,
              the SBNB;

          (l) prescribing the time and manner in which an owner of a
              property is to mark or display the number allotted to such
              property and the penalties for non-compliance; and

      (m) generally for the better carrying out of the provisions of
            this Act.

                                                                                 [Act 3 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 (2) The appropriate Minister may, in lieu of making any regulations
prescribing the forms which by this Act are required to be or may be
prescribed, authorise the Comptroller or the SBNB (as the case may
be) to approve the use of such forms as the Comptroller or SBNB
thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [23/2010]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
               PROPERTY TAX ACT 1960

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Ordinance 72 of 1960 — Property Tax Ordinance, 1960

Bill           : 115/1960

First Reading  : 29 November 1960

Second and Third Readings : 29 December 1960

Commencement   : 1 January 1961

2. Ordinance 25 of 1963 — Property Tax (Amendment) Ordinance, 1963

Bill           : 9/1963

First Reading  : 28 November 1963

Second and Third Readings : 19 December 1963

Commencement   : 1 January 1963 (section 2)
                     1 January 1964 (except section 2)

3. Act 24 of 1965 — Property Tax (Amendment) Act, 1965

Bill           : 50/1965

First Reading  : 13 December 1965

Second and Third Readings : 30 December 1965

Commencement   : 1 January 1966

4. 1966 Reprint — Property Tax Ordinance, 1960

Reprint        : 23 March 1966

5. Act 19 of 1968 — Property Tax (Amendment) Act, 1968

Bill           : 31/1968

First Reading  : 11 July 1968

Second and Third Readings : 31 July 1968

Commencement   : 1 January 1969

6. 1970 Revised Edition — Property Tax Act (Chapter 144)

Operation      : 30 April 1971

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
               ii

7. Act 24 of 1973 — Property Tax (Amendment) Act, 1973

Bill           : 36/1973

First Reading  : 11 July 1973

Second and Third Readings : 26 July 1973

Commencement   : 17 August 1973

8. Act 6 of 1982 — Property Tax (Amendment) Act, 1982

Bill           : 31/1981

First Reading  : 22 December 1981

Second and Third Readings : 3 March 1982

Commencement   : 16 April 1982

9. 1970 Reprint — Property Tax Act (Chapter 144)

Reprint        : 15 December 1982

10. Act 4 of 1987 — Property Tax (Amendment) Act 1987

Bill           : 29/1986

First Reading  : 9 December 1986

Second and Third Readings : 26 January 1987

Commencement   : 1 July 1985 (section 3)
                     1 July 1986 (sections 2 and 4)
                     20 February 1987 (all other sections)

11. 1985 Revised Edition — Property Tax Act (Chapter 254)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

12. Act 46 of 1996 — Property Tax (Amendment) Act 1996

Bill           : 36/1996

First Reading  : 2 December 1996

Second and Third Readings : 11 December 1996

Commencement   : 27 December 1996

13. 1997 Revised Edition — Property Tax Act (Chapter 254)

Operation      : 30 May 1997

14. Act 33 of 2002 — Property Tax (Amendment) Act 2002

Bill           : 31/2002

First Reading  : 1 October 2002

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
               iii

Second and Third Readings : 31 October 2002

Commencement   : 1 January 2003

15. Act 59 of 2004 — Property Tax (Amendment) Act 2004

Bill           : 62/2004

First Reading  : 19 October 2004

Second and Third Readings : 17 November 2004

Commencement   : 8 December 2004

16. 2005 Revised Edition — Property Tax Act (Chapter 254)

Operation      : 31 March 2005

17. Act 35 of 2008 — Property Tax (Amendment) Act 2008

Bill           : 31/2008

First Reading  : 20 October 2008

Second and Third Readings : 18 November 2008

Commencement   : 1 January 2009

18. Act 21 of 2008 — Mental Health (Care and Treatment) Act 2008
     (Amendments made by section 33 read with item 1(40) of the
     Second Schedule to the above Act)

Bill           : 11/2008

First Reading  : 21 July 2008

Second and Third Readings : 15 September 2008

Commencement   : 1 March 2010 (section 33 read with
                     item 1(40) of the Second Schedule)

19. Act 23 of 2010 — Property Tax (Amendment) Act 2010

Bill           : 21/2010

First Reading  : 16 August 2010

Second and Third Readings : 16 September 2010

Commencement   : 25 October 2010 (except section 4(b))
                     1 January 2012 (section 4(b))

20. Act 18 of 2013 — Property Tax (Amendment) Act 2013

Bill           : 13/2013

First Reading  : 16 September 2013

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                      iv

Second and Third Readings : 21 October 2013

Commencement          : 1 January 2014

21. Act 21 of 2013 — Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Act 2013
     (Amendments made by section 9 read with item 2 of the Schedule to the above
     Act)

Bill                  : 17/2013

First Reading         : 21 October 2013

Second Reading        : 11 November 2013

Notice of Amendments  : 11 November 2013

Third Reading         : 11 November 2013

Commencement          : 1 January 2014 (section 9 read with
                            item 2 of the Schedule)

22. Act 5 of 2014 — Subordinate Courts (Amendment) Act 2014
     (Amendments made by section 11(9) read with item 19 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 26/2013

First Reading         : 11 November 2013

Second and Third Readings : 21 January 2014

Commencement          : 7 March 2014 (section 11(9) read with
                            item 19 of the Schedule)

23. Act 38 of 2017 — Property Tax (Amendment) Act 2017

Bill                  : 35/2017

First Reading         : 11 September 2017

Second and Third Readings : 2 October 2017

Commencement          : 23 October 2017

24. Act 9 of 2018 — Cybersecurity Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 50(9) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 2/2018

First Reading         : 8 January 2018

Second and Third Readings : 5 February 2018

Commencement          : 31 August 2018 (section 50(9))

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                         v

25. Act 14 of 2020 — COVID-19 (Temporary Measures) Act 2020
     (Amendments made by section 33 of the above Act)

Bill                     : 19/2020

First, Second and Third  : 7 April 2020
Readings

Commencement             : 22 April 2020 (section 33)

26. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 129 of the Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                     : 32/2019

First Reading            : 7 October 2019

Second Reading           : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments     : 5 November 2019

Third Reading            : 5 November 2019

Commencement             : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                               with item 129 of the Schedule)

27. Act 27 of 2021 — Income Tax (Amendment) Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 59 of the above Act)

Bill                     : 27/2021

First Reading            : 13 September 2021

Second and Third Readings : 5 October 2021

Commencement             : 16 November 2021 (section 59)

28. 2020 Revised Edition — Property Tax Act 1960

Operation                : 31 December 2021

29. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021

Bill                     : 18/2021

First Reading            : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement             : 1 April 2022

30. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                     : 24/2022

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                          vi

First Reading             : 12 September 2022

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 2022

Commencement              : 1 November 2022

31. Act 30 of 2023 — Income Tax (Amendment) Act 2023
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                      : 30/2023

First Reading             : 18 September 2023

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 2023

Commencement              : 1 January 2024

32. Act 33 of 2022 — Income Tax (Amendment) Act 2022

Date of First Reading     : 12 September 2022
                                (Bill No. 23/2022)

Date of Second and Third  : 3 October 2022
Readings

Date of commencement      : 4 November 2022
                                26 April 2024

33. Act 3 of 2024 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2024
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                      : 36/2023

First Reading             : 6 November 2023

Second and Third Readings : 9 January 2024

Commencement              : 26 February 2024
                                1 April 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
.                                 vii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
  COMPARATIVE TABLE
PROPERTY TAX ACT 1960

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.           2005 Ed.
2—(2)
                           2—(1A)
   (3)                        (2)
   (4)                        (2A)
   (5)                        (2B)
   (6)                        (3)
   (7)                        (4)
   (8)                        (5)
   (9)                        (6)
   (10)                       (7)
   (11)                       (8)
   (12)                       (9)
6—(7)
   (8)                     6—(6A)
   (9)                        (7)
   (10)                       (8)
   (11)                       (9)
   (12)                       (10)
   (13)                       (11)
   (14)                       (12)
   (15)                       (13)
   (16)                       (14)
   (17)                       (15)
   (18)                       (16)
[Omitted as spent]            (17)

                           8—(1)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                 2020 Ed.  ii
[Omitted as spent]
[Omitted as spent]                            2005 Ed.
[Omitted as spent]              (1A)
[Omitted as spent]              (2)
[Omitted as spent]              (3)
—                               (4)
19—(2)                          (5)
—                           19—(2) [Deleted by Act 23 of 2010]
—                               (3)
—                               (4) [Deleted by Act 23 of 2010]
                                (5) [Deleted by Act 23 of 2010]
   (3)                          (6) [Deleted by Act 23 of 2010]
   (4)                          (7)
   (5)                          (8)
   (6)                          (9)
   (7)                          (10)
   (8)                          (10A)
   (9)                          (11)
   (10)                         (12)
   (11)                         (12A)
   (12)                         (12B)
   (13)                         (12C)
   (14)                         (12D)
   (15)                         (12E)
   (16)                         (13)
   (17)                         (14)
20—(5)                          (15)
   (6)                      20—(4A)
21—(8)                          (5)
                            21—(7A)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                 2020 Ed.  iii        2005 Ed.
   (9)
   (10)                         (8)
   (11)                         (8A)
   (12)                         (8B)
   (13)                         (9)
   (14)                         (10)
[Omitted as spent]              (11)
36—(2)                       36—(2)
                                (3)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
