THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
             DEEP SEABED MINING ACT 2015

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                       2020 Ed.

Deep Seabed Mining Act 2015

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                               PART 1
                          PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Purposes of Act
     2.
     3.

                                        PART 2

                REGULATION OF DEEP SEABED MINING

 4. General prohibition against deep seabed mining
 5. Exceptions to section 4
 6. Grant of licence
 7. Criteria for grant of licence, etc.
 8. Certificate of sponsorship
 9. Coming into force and duration of licence
10. Licence conditions
11. Directions to licensee
12. Transfer of licence
13. Lapsing of licence
14. Suspension or revocation of licence
15. Licensee may make representations before licence is suspended

         or revoked
16. Directions when licence expires, etc.
17. Licensee’s liability for wrongful act

                                        PART 3

             ENFORCEMENT OF DECISIONS AND AWARDS

18. Registration of Seabed Disputes Chamber decisions
19. Effect of registration
20. Enforcement of arbitral awards

                          1

                                                                   31.12.2021
2        Deep Seabed Mining Act 2015                         2020 Ed.

         PART 4

         MISCELLANEOUS

Section  Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
         Recovery of financial penalties
   21.   Rules of Court
   22.   Regulations
   23.   Singapore companies sponsored by Government before
   24.   commencement of Act
   25.

An Act to make provision for deep seabed mining, and for connected
  purposes.

                                                                 [1 April 2015]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Deep Seabed Mining Act 2015.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “Agreement” means the Agreement relating to the
         Implementation of Part XI of the United Nations
         Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982
         adopted on 28 July 1994 by the General Assembly of the
         United Nations;

      “Area” means the seabed and ocean floor, and the subsoil
         thereof, beyond the limits of any national jurisdiction;

      “Convention” means the United Nations Convention on the Law
         of the Sea adopted on 10 December 1982 by the Third United
         Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea;

      “corresponding ISA contract”, in relation to a licence granted to
         a person to explore for or exploit a type of resource in a part
2020 Ed.  Deep Seabed Mining Act 2015               3

          of the Area, means an ISA contract authorising the person to
          explore for or exploit (as the case may be) that type of
          resource in that part of the Area;

“Court” means the General Division of the High Court;

“ISA” means the International Seabed Authority established
   under the Convention;

“ISA contract” means a contract between the ISA and a person
   under Article 153 and Annex III, Article 3 of the Convention
   that authorises the person to explore for or exploit a type of
   resource in a part of the Area;

“licence” means a licence granted under section 6;

“licensee” means a Singapore company holding a licence that is
   in force or suspended;

“resource” means any solid, liquid or gaseous mineral resource
   in situ in the Area at or beneath the seabed, including
   polymetallic nodules;

“Seabed Disputes Chamber” means the Seabed Disputes
   Chamber of the International Tribunal for the Law of the
   Sea established under the Convention;

“Singapore company” means a company incorporated in
   Singapore;

“Singapore national” means —

          (a) a Singapore citizen; or

          (b) an entity incorporated, formed or established in
               Singapore under any written law.

                                                                                                 [40/2019]

Purposes of Act

 3. The purposes of this Act are —

       (a) to regulate the exploration for and exploitation of resources
            in the Area by persons sponsored by Singapore under the
            Convention and the Agreement;

                                                    31.12.2021
4  Deep Seabed Mining Act 2015  2020 Ed.

   (b) to ensure the effective protection of the marine
        environment against any harmful effects of those
        activities; and

   (c) to fulfil Singapore’s obligations under the Convention and
       the Agreement in relation to those activities.

                                    PART 2

            REGULATION OF DEEP SEABED MINING

General prohibition against deep seabed mining

 4.—(1) Except as provided in section 5, a Singapore national must
not explore for or exploit any resource in the Area.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in any case where the person is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $300,000 or to imprisonment
                   for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both; and

              (ii) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine
                   not exceeding $50,000 for every day or part of a day
                   during which the offence continues after conviction,
                   but not exceeding $500,000 in total; or

       (b) in any other case —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $300,000; and

              (ii) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine
                   not exceeding $50,000 for every day or part of a day
                   during which the offence continues after conviction,
                   but not exceeding $500,000 in total.

Exceptions to section 4

 5.—(1) A Singapore company may explore for or exploit a resource
in a part of the Area if —

       (a) the company has been granted a licence to explore for or
            exploit that type of resource in that part of the Area;
2020 Ed.  Deep Seabed Mining Act 2015                            5

(b) that licence remains in force;

          (c) the company has entered into a corresponding ISA
              contract; and

(d) the corresponding ISA contract remains in force.

 (2) An individual who is a Singapore citizen may explore for or
exploit a resource in a part of the Area if —

(a) the individual is acting as an employee or agent of —

          (i) a Singapore company in respect of which the
              requirements of subsection (1) are satisfied; or

          (ii) a person who has entered into an ISA contract under
               the sponsorship of any State other than Singapore,
               and the ISA contract remains in force; and

(b) the individual’s exploration or exploitation activities are
     within the scope of —

          (i) the licence granted to the Singapore company
              mentioned in paragraph (a)(i); or

          (ii) the ISA contract mentioned in paragraph (a)(ii),

          as the case may be.

Grant of licence
 6.—(1) The Minister may grant a licence to explore for or exploit

any type of resource in any part of the Area.
 (2) A licence must state —
       (a) the type of resource to which the licence applies;

       (b) whether the licensee is allowed to explore for or exploit the
            resource; and

       (c) the part of the Area in which the licensee is allowed to
            explore for or exploit the resource.

 (3) A licence must relate to only one type of resource.

                                                      31.12.2021
6  Deep Seabed Mining Act 2015                              2020 Ed.

Criteria for grant of licence, etc.

 7.—(1) Only a Singapore company may apply for and be granted a
licence.

   (2) A Singapore company may be granted more than one licence.

 (3) Before granting a licence to a Singapore company, the Minister
must be satisfied that —

   (a) the company meets, or is likely to meet, the qualification
        standards under Annex III, Article 4 of the Convention;

   (b) the company will be applying to the ISA to enter into a
        corresponding ISA contract;

   (c) it is in Singapore’s interest to grant the licence and sponsor
        the company’s application for a corresponding ISA
        contract; and

   (d) any other criteria that may be prescribed are met.

Certificate of sponsorship
 8. Where the Minister has granted a licence, the Minister may —
       (a) sponsor a licensee’s application to the ISA for a
            corresponding ISA contract; and

       (b) issue a certificate of sponsorship to the licensee.

Coming into force and duration of licence
 9.—(1) A licence has effect from the date it is granted or such other

date as the Minister may specify.

 (2) A licence has effect for such period as the Minister may specify.

 (3) The Minister may extend the duration of a licence on the
application of the licensee.

Licence conditions
 10.—(1) The Minister may specify —
       (a) licence conditions applicable to all licensees;
2020 Ed.  Deep Seabed Mining Act 2015                                 7

(b) licence conditions applicable to a specified class of
     licensees; and

          (c) licence conditions applicable to a specified licensee.

 (2) The Minister may, in particular, specify under subsection (1)
licence conditions that —

(a) require a licensee to comply with —

          (i) the applicable provisions of the Convention, the
              Agreement and the rules, regulations and procedures
              of the ISA; and

          (ii) the decisions of the ISA and its organs;

(b) where the licensee has entered into a corresponding ISA
     contract, require the licensee to comply with the terms and
     conditions of the ISA contract and any plan of work under
     the ISA contract;

          (c) require a licensee to report on its exploration or
              exploitation activities at specified intervals;

(d) require a licensee to inform the Minister of any matter
     relating to its exploration or exploitation activities;

          (e) require a licensee to provide security, in the form and of the
              amount that are acceptable to the Minister, for the due
              performance of its obligations under its licence and this
              Act; and

          (f) require a licensee to execute an indemnity, in the form that
              is acceptable to the Minister, to indemnify the Government
              against any liability incurred by the Government (whether
              or not under the Convention or the Agreement) in relation
              to the licensee’s exploration or exploitation activities.

 (3) The Minister may add to the conditions of a licence, or amend or
cancel any existing condition, by written notice to the licensee.

 (4) If the Minister is satisfied that a licensee has breached any
condition of its licence, the Minister may impose a financial penalty
not exceeding $40,000 on the licensee for the breach.

                                                         31.12.2021
8  Deep Seabed Mining Act 2015  2020 Ed.

Directions to licensee

   11.—(1) The Minister may give written directions to a licensee.

   (2) A direction under subsection (1) may be general or specific.

 (3) If the Minister is satisfied that a licensee has failed without
reasonable excuse to comply with a direction under subsection (1),
the Minister may impose a financial penalty not exceeding $40,000
on the licensee for the non-compliance.

 (4) A direction under subsection (1) need not be published in the
Gazette.

Transfer of licence
 12.—(1) The Minister may approve the transfer of a licence —
       (a) on the application of the licensee and the intended
            transferee; and

       (b) in accordance with this section.

 (2) A licence may only be transferred to a Singapore company
which —

       (a) is eligible under section 7 to be granted a licence; and

       (b) meets any other criteria that may be prescribed.
 (3) The Minister’s approval under this section may be given with or
without conditions.
 (4) The transfer of a licence takes effect on —

       (a) the date on which the conditions (if any) for the Minister’s
            approval of the transfer are met; or

       (b) such other date as the Minister may specify.

 (5) Where the Minister has approved the transfer of a licence, the
Minister may —

       (a) sponsor the new licensee’s application to the ISA for a
            corresponding ISA contract; and

       (b) issue a certificate of sponsorship to the new licensee.
2020 Ed.  Deep Seabed Mining Act 2015  9

 (6) The transfer of a licence does not affect any criminal or civil
liability incurred by the original licensee.

Lapsing of licence

 13. A licence lapses when any of the following events occurs:

       (a) the licensee fails to enter into a corresponding ISA contract
            within 12 months (or such longer period as the Minister
            may allow) after the licence is granted or transferred to the
            licensee;

       (b) the ISA and a person other than the licensee enter into an
            ISA contract authorising the person to explore for or
            exploit the same type of resource in the same part of the
            Area as that under the licence;

       (c) the corresponding ISA contract is terminated for any
            reason;

       (d) the licensee is wound up or otherwise dissolved under any
            written law;

       (e) any other event that may be prescribed occurs.

Suspension or revocation of licence

 14.—(1) The Minister may suspend or revoke a licence if —

       (a) the licensee has contravened the provisions of this Act or
            the conditions of the licence;

       (b) the corresponding ISA contract is suspended for any
            reason;

       (c) the Minister is satisfied that the licensee has not been
            carrying on, or will not be able to carry on, the licensee’s
            exploration or exploitation activities in a proper and
            satisfactory manner; or

       (d) the Minister is satisfied that it is in Singapore’s interest to
            suspend or revoke the licence.

 (2) If the Minister revokes a licence, the Minister may withdraw
any certificate of sponsorship issued to the licensee.

                                       31.12.2021
10  Deep Seabed Mining Act 2015  2020 Ed.

Licensee may make representations before licence is suspended
or revoked

 15.—(1) The Minister must give a licensee written notice of the
Minister’s intention to suspend or revoke the licence.

 (2) A licensee may make representations to the Minister within one
month after receiving the notice in subsection (1) (or such longer
period as the Minister may allow).

 (3) The Minister must consider any representations made by the
licensee under subsection (2) before making a final decision.

 (4) The Minister must inform the licensee in writing of the
Minister’s final decision within one month after the end of the
period in subsection (2) for making representations.

 (5) The Minister’s final decision takes effect 14 days (or such
longer period as the Minister may allow) after the date on which the
licensee is informed under subsection (4) of the decision.

Directions when licence expires, etc.
 16.—(1) This section applies where —
       (a) a licence expires;

       (b) a licence is transferred under section 12;

       (c) a licence lapses under section 13; or

       (d) a licensee has been informed under section 15(4) of the
            Minister’s decision to revoke the licence.

 (2) The purposes of this section are —
       (a) to secure the orderly cessation by a licensee of its
            exploration or exploitation activities; and

       (b) to effectively protect the marine environment against any
            harmful effects of those activities or the cessation of those
            activities.

 (3) The Minister may, for any of the purposes of this section, give
directions to —

       (a) the licensee;
2020 Ed.  Deep Seabed Mining Act 2015                   11

(b) any director or senior manager of the licensee; or

          (c) if there is no director or senior manager of the licensee who
              is able to comply with the directions of the Minister, any
              person who was a director of the licensee in the period of
              6 months immediately preceding the date of the relevant
              event in subsection (1).

 (4) Without limiting subsection (3), the Minister may give all or any
of the following directions under that subsection:

(a) a direction that the licensee continues to comply with all or
     any of its obligations under this Act and the conditions of
     its licence;

(b) a direction that any records kept by the licensee be
     delivered to the Minister or any other person;

          (c) a direction that specified measures be taken to effectively
              prevent, contain or minimise any harmful effects to the
              marine environment.

 (5) If the Minister is satisfied that a person has failed without
reasonable excuse to comply with a direction given under
subsection (3), the Minister may impose a financial penalty not
exceeding $40,000 on the person for the non-compliance.

 (6) Subject to subsection (7), a person who complies with a
direction given under subsection (3) is not liable for any loss or
damage suffered by any other person as a result of the compliance.

 (7) Subsection (6) does not apply to any loss or damage suffered as
a result of any act or omission that purports to be in compliance with,
but is not required by, a direction given under subsection (3).

 (8) In this section, “licensee” includes a Singapore company which
has ceased to hold a licence.

Licensee’s liability for wrongful act

 17.—(1) Where a licensee is responsible or liable for any wrongful
act under Annex III, Article 22 of the Convention, the Court may —

                                       31.12.2021
12  Deep Seabed Mining Act 2015  2020 Ed.

    (a) order the licensee to pay to a person any compensation for
         the wrongful act that may be ordered to be paid to that
         person pursuant to that Article; and

    (b) grant to a person any other remedy for the licensee’s
         wrongful act that may be granted to that person pursuant to
         that Article.

 (2) In this section, “licensee” includes a Singapore company which
has ceased to hold a licence.

                                    PART 3

         ENFORCEMENT OF DECISIONS AND AWARDS

Registration of Seabed Disputes Chamber decisions
 18.—(1) The Court may, on the application of an interested person,

order a decision of the Seabed Disputes Chamber to be registered in
the Court.

 (2) To avoid doubt —

       (a) a decision of the Seabed Disputes Chamber involving a
            State may be registered under subsection (1); but

       (b) nothing in this section or section 19 affects any privilege or
            immunity that a State may claim against the enforcement
            of a registered decision of the Seabed Disputes Chamber.

Effect of registration

 19. A registered decision of the Seabed Disputes Chamber is to be
treated, for the following purposes, as if the decision was a judgment
of the Court made on the date on which the decision was registered:

       (a) the force and effect of the decision in relation to the
            enforcement of the decision;

       (b) the exercise of the powers of the Court in relation to the
            enforcement of the decision;

       (c) the taking of proceedings for or in relation to the
            enforcement of the decision;
2020 Ed.  Deep Seabed Mining Act 2015  13

(d) where the decision is for the payment of a sum of money,
     the carrying and computation of interest on that sum.

Enforcement of arbitral awards

 20. An arbitral award made pursuant to Article 188(2)(a) of the
Convention is to be treated as a foreign award for the purposes of
Part 3 of the International Arbitration Act 1994.

                                    PART 4

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 21.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            a partner; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

                                       31.12.2021
14               Deep Seabed Mining Act 2015  2020 Ed.

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
         its governing body; or

    (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of the officer or
         member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(5) In this section —

    “body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership as
       defined in section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
       Act 2005;

    “officer” —

    (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
         partner, member of the committee of management,
         chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the body corporate and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity; or

    (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
         than a partnership), means the president, the
         secretary, or any member of the committee of the
         unincorporated association, or any person holding a
         position analogous to that of president, secretary or
         member of a committee, and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

Recovery of financial penalties

 22. A financial penalty imposed under this Act may be recovered in
the same manner as a fine.

Rules of Court

 23. The Rules Committee constituted under section 80(3) of the
Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969 may make Rules of Court for
2020 Ed.  Deep Seabed Mining Act 2015  15

the purposes of section 17 and Part 3, and section 80 of that Act
applies to the making of the Rules.

Regulations

 24.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), the Minister may make
regulations for the purposes of this Act.

 (2) The regulations made under subsection (1) may, in particular —

       (a) prescribe anything that is required or allowed to be
            prescribed under this Act;

       (b) prescribe any fees to be paid for the purposes of this Act;

       (c) prescribe how a document may be served for the purposes
            of this Act;

       (d) prescribe any criteria to be satisfied before a licence may
            be granted or transferred;

       (e) prescribe the procedures and forms for applications under
            this Act;

        (f) prescribe any requirements that a licensee must comply
            with;

       (g) provide that either, but not both, of the following is to
            apply in respect of any specified provision of the
            regulations:

               (i) the Minister may impose a financial penalty not
                   exceeding $40,000 if the Minister is satisfied that the
                   provision has been contravened;

              (ii) the contravention of the provision shall be an offence
                   punishable on conviction with a fine not exceeding
                   $40,000; and

       (h) make different provisions for different purposes.

 (3) The Minister cannot make regulations for anything for which
Rules of Court are required or permitted to be made under section 23.

                                       31.12.2021
16  Deep Seabed Mining Act 2015                     2020 Ed.

Singapore companies sponsored by Government before
commencement of Act

 25. Despite section 7(3)(b), the Minister may grant a licence under
section 6 to a Singapore company to which the Government has,
before 1 April 2015, issued a certificate of sponsorship sponsoring
the company’s application to the ISA for an ISA contract.
            LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
      DEEP SEABED MINING ACT 2015

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 6 of 2015 — Deep Seabed Mining Act 2015

Bill                  : 2/2015

First Reading         : 19 January 2015

Second and Third Readings : 12 February 2015

Commencement          : 1 April 2015

2. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 40 of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 40 of the Schedule)

                                                31.12.2021
                             ii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
