THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                   COMPETITION ACT 2004

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
                                                          2020 Ed.

Competition Act 2004

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                         PART 2

 COMPETITION AND CONSUMER COMMISSION OF SINGAPORE

Division 1 — Establishment, incorporation and constitution of Commission

  3. Establishment and incorporation of Competition and Consumer
         Commission of Singapore

  4. Common seal
  5. Constitution of Commission

          Division 2 — Functions, duties and powers of Commission

  6. Functions and duties of Commission
  7. Powers of Commission
  8. Directions of Minister, etc.
  9. Appointment of committees and delegation of powers

                     Division 3 — Provisions relating to staff

10. Chief Executive, officers and employees, etc.

                         Division 4 — Financial provisions

11. Financial year
12. Minister’s approval of estimates
13. Moneys recovered or collected by Commission
14. Grants-in-aid
15. Power to borrow
16. Issue of shares, etc.
17. Bank account
18. Application of moneys
19. Investment

                                                       1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                        2

Section   [Repealed]
          Audit of accounts
   20.    [Repealed]
   21.    [Repealed]
   22.
   23.

Division 5 — Transfer of property, assets, liabilities and employees

24. Transfer to Commission of property, assets and liabilities
25. Transfer of employees
26. Service rights, etc., of transferred employees to be preserved
27. No benefits in respect of abolition or reorganisation of office
28. Existing contracts
29. Continuation and completion of disciplinary proceedings and

         other legal proceedings
30. Misconduct or neglect of duty by employee before transfer

                             Division 6 — General

31. [Repealed]
32. Symbol or representation of Commission

                                           PART 3

                                      COMPETITION

                                   Division 1 — General

   33. Application of Part

Division 2 — Agreements, etc., preventing, restricting or distorting competition

   34. Agreements, etc., preventing, restricting or distorting
            competition

   35. Excluded agreements
   36. Block exemptions
   37. Block exemption orders
   38. Opposition to block exemptions
   39. Procedure for block exemptions
   40. Variation and revocation of block exemption orders
   41. Criteria for block exemptions
   42. Requests for Commission to examine agreements
   43. Notification for guidance
   44. Notification for decision
   45. Effect of guidance

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
3  Competition Act 2004                                                2020 Ed.

Section

   46. Effect of decision that section 34 prohibition has not been
            infringed

   Division 3 — Abuse of dominant position

   47. Abuse of dominant position
   48. Excluded cases
   49. Requests for Commission to consider conduct
   50. Notification for guidance
   51. Notification for decision
   52. Effect of guidance
   53. Effect of decision that section 47 prohibition has not been

            infringed

   Division 4 — Mergers

   54. Mergers
   55. Excluded mergers
   55A. Confidential advice by Commission on anticipated mergers
   56. Requests for Commission to consider anticipated mergers and

            mergers
   57. Notification of anticipated merger
   58. Notification of merger
   58A. Interim measures in relation to notifications of anticipated

            mergers and mergers
   59. Effect of decision that anticipated merger, if carried into effect,

            will not infringe section 54 prohibition
   60. Effect of decision that merger has not infringed section 54

            prohibition

   Division 4A — Commitments

   60A. Commitments
   60B. Effect of commitments

   Division 5 — Enforcement

   61. Guidelines on enforcement of Part
   61A. Power to require documents or information
   62. Power to investigate
   63. Power when conducting investigation
   64. Power to enter premises without warrant
   65. Power to enter premises under warrant
   66. Self-incrimination and savings for professional legal advisers
   67. Interim measures

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                            4

Section   Decision of Commission upon completion of investigation
          Enforcement of decision of Commission
   68.    Notification
   69.
   70.

                                        PART 4
                                       APPEALS

                                Division 1 — General
71. Appealable decisions

                    Division 2 — Competition Appeal Board
72. Competition Appeal Board
73. Powers and decisions of Board
74. Appeals to General Division of High Court, etc.

                                        PART 5

                                      OFFENCES

75. Refusal to provide information, etc.
76. Destroying or falsifying documents
77. False or misleading information
78. Obstruction of officer of Commission, etc.
79. No costs or damages or other relief arising from seizure to be

         recoverable unless seizure without reasonable or probable cause
80. Powers of enforcement
81. Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
82. Jurisdiction of court
83. General penalty
84. Composition of offences

                                        PART 6

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

85. Enforcement of directions of Commission and commitments in
         District Court

86. Rights of private action
87. Cooperation between Commission and other regulatory

         authorities on competition matters
88. Cooperation between Commission and foreign competition

         bodies
89. Preservation of secrecy

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
5        Competition Act 2004                                          2020 Ed.

Section  Protection from personal liability
         Public servants
   90.   Proceedings conducted by officers of Commission
   91.   Amendment of Third and Fourth Schedules
   91A.  Regulations
   92.   [Repealed]
   93.
   94.

                                             PART 7

                           TRANSFER OF UNDERTAKINGS
                    RELATING TO FAIR TRADING FUNCTIONS

                                     TO COMMISSION

    95. Interpretation of this Part
    96. Transfer of undertakings to Commission
    97. Transfer of employees to Commission
    98. General preservation of employment terms, etc.
    99. Transfer of records
   100. Confirmation of transfers

                                             PART 8

                 TRANSFER OF UNDERTAKINGS RELATING TO
                        PRODUCT SAFETY FUNCTIONS AND
                          LEGAL METROLOGY FUNCTIONS
                                     TO COMMISSION

   101. Interpretation of this Part
   102. Transfer of undertakings to Commission
   103. Transfer of records
   104. Confirmation of transfers

             First Schedule — Constitution and proceedings of
                                        Commission

             Second Schedule — Powers of Commission
             Third Schedule — Exclusions from section 34 prohibition

                                        and section 47 prohibition
             Fourth Schedule — Exclusions from section 54 prohibition

An Act to make provision about competition and the abuse of a
  dominant position in the market; and to establish the Competition

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      6

and Consumer Commission of Singapore, to provide for its
functions and powers and for matters connected therewith.

                                                                                                        [10/2018]

                     [1 January 2005: Parts I and II and the First and
                                                         Second Schedules ;

                                              1 September 2005: Part IV ;
              1 January 2006: Divisions 1, 2, 3 and 5 of Part III and

                               Parts V and VI and the Third Schedule ]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Competition Act 2004.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “anticipated merger” means an arrangement that is in progress or
         contemplation and that, if carried into effect, will result in the
         occurrence of a merger referred to in section 54(2);

      “block exemption” has the meaning given by section 36(5);

      “block exemption order” has the meaning given by
         section 36(3);

      “Board” means the Competition Appeal Board established
         under section 72;

      “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Commission and
         includes any temporary Chairperson of the Commission;

      “Chief Executive” means the Chief Executive of the
         Commission, and includes any individual acting in that
         capacity;

      “Commission” means the Competition and Consumer
         Commission of Singapore established by section 3;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
7  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

   “consumer” and “consumer transaction” have the meanings
      given by section 2(1) of the Consumer Protection (Fair
      Trading) Act 2003;

                                                                          [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

   “consumer goods” means any goods to which Part 3 of the
      Consumer Protection (Trade Descriptions and Safety
      Requirements) Act 1975 applies, whether or not supplied
      in the course of a consumer transaction;

                                                                          [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

   “consumer protection” means all or any of the following:

   (a) promoting fair trading practices among suppliers and
        consumers and enabling consumers to make
        informed decisions about consumer transactions in
        Singapore;

   (b) preventing suppliers in Singapore from engaging in
        unfair trading practices in relation to consumer
        transactions;

           (c) promoting and enforcing the supply of safe consumer
                goods in Singapore and the provision of relevant
                safety information about consumer goods;

                                                                          [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

   “Deputy Chairperson” means the Deputy Chairperson of the
      Commission and includes any temporary Deputy
      Chairperson of the Commission;

   “document” includes information recorded in any form;

   “goods” includes —

   (a) buildings and other structures;

   (b) ships, aircraft and hovercraft;

   (c) gas and electricity; and

   (d) choses in action;

   “information” includes estimates and forecasts;

   “inspector” means an inspector appointed by the Commission to
      conduct any investigation under section 62;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      8

“investigating officer” has the meaning given by section 64(1);

“legal metrology” means —

          (a) the use of uniform weights and measures;

          (b) the use of accurate weighing or measuring
               instruments for trade; and

        (c) the provision of relevant information relating to
             quantity in the supply of goods;

                                                                       [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

“member” means a member of the Commission;

“party involved in a merger” means a person or an undertaking
   specified in section 54(2) and includes the merged entity;

“party to an anticipated merger” means a person or an
   undertaking which would be a person or an undertaking
   specified in section 54(2) if the anticipated merger were
   carried into effect;

“person” includes any undertaking;

“premises” does not include domestic premises unless —

          (a) they are used in connection with the affairs of an
               undertaking; or

          (b) documents relating to the affairs of an undertaking
               are kept there,

          but includes any vehicle;

“public interest consideration” means national or public
   security, defence and any other considerations that the
   Minister may, by order in the Gazette, prescribe;

“section 34 prohibition” means the prohibition referred to in
   section 34(1);

“section 47 prohibition” means the prohibition referred to in
   section 47(1);

“section 54 prohibition” means the prohibition referred to in
   section 54(1);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
9  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

   “service” means a service of any description whether industrial,
      trade, professional or otherwise;

   “undertaking” means any person, being an individual, a body
      corporate, an unincorporated body of persons or any other
      entity, capable of carrying on commercial or economic
      activities relating to goods or services.

                                                                                     [23/2007; 5/2018; 10/2018]

 (2) The fact that to a limited extent the section 34 prohibition does
not apply to an agreement, because of an exclusion provided by or
under this Act, does not require those provisions of the agreement to
which the exclusion relates to be disregarded when considering
whether the agreement infringes the prohibition for other reasons.

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, the power to require information, in
relation to information recorded otherwise than in a legible form,
includes the power to require a copy of it in a legible form.

 (4) Any power conferred on any person by this Act to require
information includes the power to require any document which the
person believes may contain that information.

                                    PART 2
      COMPETITION AND CONSUMER COMMISSION OF

                                 SINGAPORE

                                                                                                           [10/2018]

   Division 1 — Establishment, incorporation and constitution of
                                  Commission

Establishment and incorporation of Competition and
Consumer Commission of Singapore

 3. A body called the Competition and Consumer Commission of
Singapore is established, which is a body corporate with perpetual
succession and is by that name capable of —

       (a) suing and being sued;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      10

(b) acquiring, owning, holding and developing or disposing of
     property, both movable and immovable; and

          (c) doing and suffering any other acts or things that bodies
              corporate may lawfully do and suffer.

                                                                                                          [10/2018]

Common seal

 4.—(1) The Commission must have a common seal and the seal
may be broken, changed, altered or made anew as the Commission
thinks fit.

 (2) All deeds and other documents requiring the seal of the
Commission must be sealed with the common seal of the
Commission.

 (3) All courts, judges and persons acting judicially are to take
judicial notice of the common seal of the Commission affixed to any
document and presume that it was duly affixed.

Constitution of Commission

 5.—(1) The Commission consists of the following members:

       (a) a Chairperson;

       (b) such other members, not being less than 2 or more than 16,
            as the Minister may determine.

 (2) The First Schedule has effect with respect to the Commission,
its members and proceedings.

     Division 2 — Functions, duties and powers of Commission

Functions and duties of Commission

 6.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the functions and
duties of the Commission are —

       (a) to maintain and enhance efficient market conduct and
            promote overall productivity, innovation and
            competitiveness of markets in Singapore;

       (b) to eliminate or control practices having adverse effect on
            competition in Singapore;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
11  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    (c) to promote and sustain competition in markets in
        Singapore;

    (d) to promote a strong competitive culture and environment
         throughout the economy in Singapore;

    (e) to act internationally as the national body representative of
        Singapore in respect of competition matters, consumer
        protection and legal metrology;

                                                                        [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

    (f) to promote fair trading practices among suppliers and
        consumers and enable consumers to make informed
        purchasing decisions in Singapore;

    (fa) to promote among suppliers in Singapore, and educate
         consumers on, the following practices:

    (i) the supply of safe consumer goods;

    (ii) the provision of relevant safety information about
         consumer goods;

    (iii) legal metrology;

                            [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

    (g) to prevent suppliers in Singapore from engaging in unfair
         practices and prevent the supply of unsafe consumer goods
         in Singapore;

                                                                        [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

    (h) to administer and enforce the Consumer Protection (Fair
         Trading) Act 2003;

    (ha) to administer and enforce the Weights and Measures Act
          1975;

                                                                           [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

      (i) to advise the Government, any public authority or any
          consumer protection organisation on national needs and
          policies in respect of competition matters, consumer
          protection and legal metrology generally; and

                                                                           [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      12

        (j) to perform such other functions and discharge such other
            duties as may be conferred on the Commission by or under
            any other written law.

                                                                                                           [10/2018]

 (2) In performing the functions and discharging the duties imposed
on it by subsection (1), the Commission must have regard to —

(a) the differences in the nature of various markets in
     Singapore;

(b) the economic, industrial and commercial needs of
     Singapore; and

          (c) maintaining the efficient functioning of the markets in
              Singapore.

 (3) The Commission may undertake such other functions and duties
as the Minister may assign to the Commission and in so doing, the
Commission is deemed to be fulfilling the purposes of this Act, and
the provisions of this Act apply to the Commission in respect of such
functions and duties.

 (4) Nothing in this section imposes on the Commission, directly or
indirectly, any form of duty or liability enforceable by proceedings
before any court to which it would not otherwise be subject.

Powers of Commission

 7.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Commission may
carry on any activities as appear to the Commission to be
advantageous, necessary or convenient for it to carry on for or in
connection with the performance of its functions and the discharge of
its duties under this Act or any other written law and, in particular, the
Commission may exercise any of the powers specified in the
Second Schedule.

 (2) This section does not limit any power of the Commission
conferred by or under any other written law.

 (3) The Commission must provide the Minister information with
respect to its property and activities in such manner and at such times
as the Minister may require.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
13  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

Directions of Minister, etc.

 8.—(1) The Minister may give to the Commission any direction
under section 5 of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may give any
direction to the Commission that is necessary in the circumstances if
it appears to the Minister to be requisite or expedient to do so —

    (a) in the interests of relations with the government of another
         country; or

    (b) in order to —

    (i) discharge or facilitate the discharge of an obligation
        binding on the Government by virtue of it being a
        member of an international organisation or a party to
        an international agreement;

    (ii) attain or facilitate the attainment of any other object
         the attainment of which is in the Minister’s opinion
         requisite or expedient in view of the Government
         being a member of an international organisation or a
         party to an international agreement; or

            (iii) enable the Government to become a member of an
                  international organisation or a party to an
                  international agreement.

                                                                             [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

(3) To avoid doubt, the Minister is entitled —

    (a) to information in the possession of the Commission; and

       (b) where the information is in or on a document, to have, and
            make and retain copies of, that document.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 (4) For the purposes of this section, the Minister may request the
Commission —

    (a) to provide information to the Minister; or

    (b) to give the Minister access to information.

                                                                        [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      14

 (5) The Commission must give effect to any direction given to it
under subsection (1) or (2) and must comply with a request under
subsection (4).

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 (6) The Commission must not disclose any direction given or
request made under this section if the Minister notifies the
Commission that, in the Minister’s opinion, disclosure of the
direction or request is against the public interest.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 (7) In this section, “information” means information specified, or of
a description specified, by the Minister that relates to the functions of
the Commission.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

Appointment of committees and delegation of powers

 9.—(1) The Commission may appoint from among its own
members or persons who are not members any number of
committees that it thinks fit consisting of members or other
persons or members and other persons for purposes which, in the
opinion of the Commission, would be better regulated and managed
by means of those committees.

 (2) The Commission may, subject to any conditions or restrictions
that it thinks fit, delegate to any such committee or to the Chairperson
all or any of the powers, functions and duties vested in the
Commission by this Act or any other written law, except the
powers to prescribe or levy dues and rates and borrow money.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (3) The Commission may, subject to any conditions or restrictions
that it thinks fit, delegate to any employee of the Commission or any
person all or any of the powers, functions and duties vested in the
Commission by this Act or any other written law, except the powers
to prescribe or levy dues and rates and borrow money; and any power,
function or duty so delegated may be exercised, performed or
discharged by the employee or person in the name and on behalf of
the Commission.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
15  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    Division 3 — Provisions relating to staff

Chief Executive, officers and employees, etc.

 10.—(1) There must be a Chief Executive of the Commission,
whose appointment, removal, discipline and promotion must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Commission may, subject to the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018, appoint an individual to act temporarily as
the Chief Executive during any period, or during all periods, when the
Chief Executive —

    (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (3) The Commission may, subject to the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018, appoint and employ, on such terms and
conditions as it may determine, such other officers, employees,
consultants and agents as may be necessary for the effective
performance of its functions.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

                    Division 4 — Financial provisions

Financial year

 11. The financial year of the Commission begins on 1 April of each
year and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

Minister’s approval of estimates

 12.—(1) A copy of all annual estimates of revenue and expenditure
and supplementary estimates must, upon their adoption by the
Commission, be sent without delay to the Minister.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Minister may approve or disallow any item or portion of
any item shown in the annual estimates or supplementary estimates.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      16

 (3) The Minister must return the annual estimates or supplementary
estimates as amended under subsection (2) to the Commission, and
the Commission is bound by the Minister’s decision.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (4) However, the Commission may transfer all or any part of
moneys assigned to one item of expenditure to any item under the
same head of expenditure in any estimates approved by the Minister.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Moneys recovered or collected by Commission

 13.—(1) All moneys recovered or charges or composition sums
collected under this Act, other than financial penalties, must be paid
into and form part of the moneys of the Commission.

 (2) All financial penalties collected under this Act must be paid into
the Consolidated Fund.

Grants-in-aid

 14. For the purpose of enabling the Commission to perform its
functions and discharge its duties under this Act, the Minister may
make grants‑in‑aid to the Commission of such sums of money, as the
Minister may determine, out of moneys to be provided by Parliament.

Power to borrow

 15.—(1) For the performance of its functions or discharge of its
duties under this Act or any other written law, the Commission may
raise loans from the Government or, with the Minister’s approval,
raise loans within or outside Singapore from such source as the
Minister may direct by —

       (a) mortgage, overdraft or other means, with or without
            security;

       (b) charge, whether legal or equitable, on any property vested
            in the Commission or on any other revenue receivable by
            the Commission under this Act or any other written law; or

       (c) the creation and issue of debentures, bonds or any other
            instrument as the Minister may approve.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
17  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

 (2) For the purposes of this section, the power to raise loans
includes the power to make any financial agreement whereby credit
facilities are granted to the Commission for the purchase of goods,
materials or things.

Issue of shares, etc.

 16. As a consequence of —

       (a) the vesting of any property, rights or liabilities of the
            Government in the Commission under this Act; or

       (b) any capital injection or other investment by the
            Government in the Commission in accordance with any
            written law,

the Commission must issue such shares or other securities to the
Minister for Finance as that Minister may direct.

Bank account

 17.—(1) The Commission must open and maintain an account with
such bank as the Commission thinks fit.

 (2) Every such account must be operated by such person authorised
to do so by the Commission.

Application of moneys

 18. The moneys of the Commission must be applied only in
payment or discharge of the expenses, obligations and liabilities of
the Commission and in making any payment that the Commission is
authorised or required to make.

Investment

 19. The Commission may, subject to the general or special direction
of the Minister —

       (a) invest its moneys in such manner as it thinks fit; and

       (b) engage in any financial activity or participate in any
            financial arrangement for the purpose of managing or
            hedging against any financial risk that arises or is likely to
            arise from such investment.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      18

20. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

Audit of accounts

 21. The auditor must submit such periodical and special reports to
the Minister and to the Commission as may appear to the auditor to be
necessary or as the Minister or the Commission may require.

 22. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

 23. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

Division 5 — Transfer of property, assets, liabilities and employees

Transfer to Commission of property, assets and liabilities

 24.—(1) As from 1 January 2005, such movable and immovable
property vested in the Government as may be determined by the
Minister for Finance and used or managed by the Market Analysis
Division of the Ministry of Trade and Industry (called in this Division
the transferred Division) and all assets, interests, rights, privileges,
liabilities and obligations of the Government relating to the
transferred Division are transferred to and vest in the Commission
without further assurance, act or deed.

 (2) If any question arises as to whether any particular property,
asset, interest, right, privilege, liability or obligation has been
transferred to or vested in the Commission under subsection (1), a
certificate under the hand of the Minister for Finance is conclusive
evidence that the property, asset, interest, right, privilege, liability or
obligation was or was not so transferred or vested.

 (3) Any immovable property to be transferred to and vested in the
Commission under subsection (1) is held by the Commission upon
such tenure and subject to such terms and conditions as the President
may determine.

 (4) Every agreement relating to any of the transferred properties to
which the Government was a party immediately before 1 January
2005, whether or not of such nature that the rights and liabilities under
the agreement could be assigned, has effect as from that date as if —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
19  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    (a) the Commission had been a party to such an agreement;
         and

    (b) for any reference to the Government there was substituted
         in respect of anything to be done on or after 1 January 2005
         a reference to the Commission.

Transfer of employees

 25.—(1) As from 1 January 2005, such persons or categories of
persons as the Minister may determine who, immediately before that
date, were employed by the Government and posted to the transferred
Division are transferred to the service of the Commission on terms no
less favourable than those enjoyed by them immediately prior to their
transfer.

 (2) If any question arises as to whether any person or any category
of persons has been transferred to the service of the Commission
under subsection (1), a certificate under the hand of the Minister is
conclusive evidence that the person or category of persons was or was
not so transferred.

 (3) Until such time as terms and conditions of service are drawn up
by the Commission, the scheme and terms and conditions of service
in the Government continue to apply to every person transferred to
the service of the Commission under subsection (1) as if he or she
were still in the service of the Government.

Service rights, etc., of transferred employees to be preserved

 26.—(1) The terms and conditions to be drawn up by the
Commission must take into account the terms and conditions of
service (including salaries and accrued rights to leave) enjoyed by the
persons transferred to the service of the Commission under section 25
while in the employment of the Government.

 (2) Any term or condition relating to the length of service with the
Commission must recognise the length of service of the persons so
transferred while in the employment of the Government to be service
with the Commission.

 (3) Nothing in the terms and conditions of service to be drawn up by
the Commission adversely affects the conditions that would have

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      20

been applicable to persons transferred to the service of the
Commission as regards any pension, gratuity or allowance payable
under the Pensions Act 1956.

 (4) Where a person has been transferred to the service of the
Commission under section 25, the Government shall be liable to pay
to the Commission such portion of any pension, gratuity or allowance
payable to the person on the person’s retirement as the same bears to
the proportion which the aggregate amount of the person’s
pensionable emoluments during the person’s service with the
Government bears to the aggregate amount of the person’s
pensionable emoluments during the person’s service under both the
Government and the Commission.

 (5) Where any person in the service of the Commission, whose case
does not fall within the scope of any pension or other schemes
established under this section, retires or dies in the service of the
Commission or is discharged from such service, the Commission may
grant to him or her or to such other person wholly or partly dependent
on him or her, as the Commission thinks fit, such allowance or
gratuity as the Commission may determine.

No benefits in respect of abolition or reorganisation of office

 27. Despite the provisions of the Pensions Act 1956, a person who
is transferred to the service of the Commission under section 25 is not
entitled to claim any benefit under that Act on the ground that he or
she has been retired from the public service on account of abolition or
reorganisation of office in consequence of the establishment and
incorporation of the Commission.

Existing contracts

 28. All deeds, contracts, schemes, bonds, agreements, instruments
and arrangements subsisting immediately before 1 January 2005 to
which the Government is a party and relating to the transferred
Division or to any person transferred to the service of the
Commission under section 25 continue in force on and after that
date and are enforceable by or against the Commission as if the
Commission had been named therein or had been a party thereto
instead of the Government.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
21  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

Continuation and completion of disciplinary proceedings and
other legal proceedings

 29.—(1) Where, on 1 January 2005, any disciplinary proceedings
were pending against any employee of the Government transferred to
the service of the Commission, the proceedings must be carried on
and completed by the Commission.

 (2) Where, on 1 January 2005, any matter was in the course of being
heard or investigated or had been heard or investigated by a
committee acting under due authority but no order, ruling or
direction had been made on the matter, the committee must
complete the hearing or investigation and must make such order,
ruling or direction as it could have made under the authority vested in
it before that date.

 (3) Any order, ruling or direction made by a committee under this
section is treated as an order, a ruling or a direction of the
Commission and has the same force or effect as if it had been
made by the Commission pursuant to the authority vested in the
Commission under this Act.

 (4) Any proceedings or cause of action pending or existing
immediately before 1 January 2005 by or against the Government,
or any person acting on its behalf, in relation to —

    (a) the transferred Division;

    (b) any portion of the property, assets, interests, rights,
         privileges, liabilities and obligations transferred to the
         Commission under section 24; or

    (c) any employee transferred to the service of the Commission
        under section 25,

may be continued, completed and enforced by or against the
Commission.

Misconduct or neglect of duty by employee before transfer

 30. The Commission may reprimand, reduce in rank, retire, dismiss
or punish in some other manner a person who had, whilst the person
was in the employment of the Government, been guilty of any
misconduct or neglect of duty which would have rendered the person

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      22

liable to be reprimanded, reduced in rank, retired, dismissed or
punished in some other manner if the person had continued to be in
the employment of the Government, and if this Act had not been
enacted.

                            Division 6 — General

 31. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

Symbol or representation of Commission

 32.—(1) The Commission has the exclusive right to the use of such
symbol or representation as the Commission may select or devise and
to display or exhibit that symbol or representation in connection with
its activities or affairs.

 (2) A person who —

       (a) uses a symbol or representation identical with that of the
            Commission; or

       (b) uses a symbol or representation which so resembles the
            Commission’s symbol or representation as to deceive or
            cause confusion, or to be likely to deceive or to cause
            confusion,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

                                    PART 3
                               COMPETITION
                            Division 1 — General
Application of Part
 33.—(1) Despite the fact that —
       (a) an agreement referred to in section 34 has been entered into
            outside Singapore;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
23  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    (b) any party to such agreement is outside Singapore;

    (c) any undertaking abusing the dominant position referred to
        in section 47 is outside Singapore;

    (d) an anticipated merger will be carried into effect outside
         Singapore;

    (e) a merger referred to in section 54 has taken place outside
        Singapore;

    (f) any party to an anticipated merger or any party involved in
        a merger is outside Singapore; or

    (g) any other matter, practice or action arising out of such
         agreement, such dominant position, an anticipated merger
         or a merger is outside Singapore,

this Part applies to such party, agreement, abuse of dominant position,
anticipated merger or merger if (as the case may be) —

    (h) such agreement infringes or has infringed the section 34
         prohibition;

    (i) such abuse infringes or has infringed the section 47
        prohibition;

    (j) such anticipated merger, if carried into effect, will infringe
        the section 54 prohibition; or

       (k) such merger infringes or has infringed the section 54
            prohibition.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (2) Insofar as this Part applies to an industry or a sector of industry
that is subject to the regulation and control of another regulatory
authority —

    (a) the exercise of powers by that other regulatory authority
         must not be construed as derogating from the exercise of
         powers by the Commission; and

    (b) the exercise of powers by the Commission must not be
         construed as derogating from the exercise of powers by
         that other regulatory authority.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      24

 (3) The Minister may make regulations for the purpose of
coordinating the exercise of powers by the Commission under this
Part and the exercise of powers by any other regulatory authority
referred to in subsection (2), and may, in particular, make regulations
to provide for the procedure to be followed —

(a) in determining in a particular case or category of cases
     whether the Commission should exercise its powers under
     this Part or the other regulatory authority should exercise
     its powers; and

(b) where the Commission and the other regulatory authority
     may exercise their respective powers concurrently or
     conjunctively.

 (4) Nothing in this Part applies to any activity carried on by, any
agreement entered into or any conduct on the part of —

(a) the Government;

(b) any statutory body; or

          (c) any person acting on behalf of the Government or that
              statutory body (as the case may be) in relation to that
              activity, agreement or conduct.

(5) Despite subsection (4), this Part applies to —

(a) such statutory body or person acting on behalf of such
     statutory body; or

(b) such activity carried on, agreement entered into or conduct
     engaged in, by a statutory body or person acting on behalf
     of the statutory body in relation to such activity, agreement
     or conduct,

as the Minister may, by order in the Gazette, prescribe.

 (6) In this section, “statutory body” means a body corporate
established by or under any written law.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
25  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

Division 2 — Agreements, etc., preventing, restricting or distorting
                                  competition

Agreements, etc., preventing, restricting or distorting
competition

 34.—(1) Subject to section 35, agreements between undertakings,
decisions by associations of undertakings or concerted practices
which have as their object or effect the prevention, restriction or
distortion of competition within Singapore are prohibited unless they
are exempt in accordance with the provisions of this Part.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), agreements, decisions or
concerted practices may, in particular, have the object or effect of
preventing, restricting or distorting competition within Singapore if
they —

    (a) directly or indirectly fix purchase or selling prices or any
         other trading conditions;

    (b) limit or control production, markets, technical
         development or investment;

    (c) share markets or sources of supply;

    (d) apply dissimilar conditions to equivalent transactions with
         other trading parties, thereby placing them at a competitive
         disadvantage; or

    (e) make the conclusion of contracts subject to acceptance by
        the other parties of supplementary obligations which, by
        their nature or according to commercial usage, have no
        connection with the subject of such contracts.

 (3) Any provision of any agreement or any decision which is
prohibited by subsection (1) is void on or after 1 January 2006 to the
extent that it infringes that subsection.

 (4) Unless the context otherwise requires, a provision of this Act
which is expressed to apply to, or in relation to, an agreement is to be
read as applying, with the necessary modifications, equally to, or in
relation to, a decision by an association of undertakings or a
concerted practice.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      26

 (5) Subsection (1) applies to agreements, decisions and concerted
practices implemented before, on or after 1 January 2006.

Excluded agreements

 35. The section 34 prohibition does not apply to such matter as may
be specified in the Third Schedule.

Block exemptions

 36.—(1) If agreements which fall within a particular category of
agreements are, in the Commission’s opinion, likely to be agreements
referred to in section 41, the Commission may recommend that the
Minister make an order specifying that category for the purposes of
this section.

 (2) The Minister may make an order giving effect to such a
recommendation —

       (a) in the form in which the recommendation is made; or

       (b) subject to such modifications as the Minister considers
            appropriate.

 (3) An order made under this section is referred to in this Part as a
block exemption order.

 (4) An agreement which falls within a category specified in a block
exemption order is exempt from the section 34 prohibition.

 (5) An exemption under this section is called in this Part a block
exemption.

Block exemption orders

 37.—(1) A block exemption order may impose conditions or
obligations subject to which a block exemption has effect.

 (2) A block exemption order may provide —

       (a) that breach of a condition imposed by the order has the
            effect of cancelling the block exemption in respect of an
            agreement as from such date as the Commission may
            specify;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
27  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    (b) that if there is a failure to comply with an obligation
         imposed by the order, the Commission may, by written
         notice, cancel the block exemption in respect of the
         agreement as from such date as the Commission may
         specify; and

    (c) that if the Commission considers that a particular
        agreement is not one to which section 41 applies, it may
        cancel the block exemption in respect of that agreement as
        from such date as the Commission may specify.

 (3) A block exemption order may provide for a block exemption to
have effect from a date earlier than that on which the order is made.

 (4) A block exemption order may provide that the order ceases to
have effect at the end of a specified period.

 (5) In this section, “specified” means specified in a block
exemption order.

Opposition to block exemptions

 38.—(1) A block exemption order may provide that a party to an
agreement which does not qualify for the block exemption created by
the order, but satisfies specified criteria, may notify the Commission
of the agreement for the purposes of subsection (2).

 (2) An agreement which is notified under any provision included in
a block exemption order by virtue of subsection (1) is treated, as from
the end of the notice period, as falling within a category specified in a
block exemption order unless the Commission —

       (a) is opposed to it being so treated; and

       (b) gives written notice to the party concerned of its opposition
            before the end of that period.

 (3) If the Commission gives notice of its opposition under
subsection (2), the notification under subsection (1) is treated as a
notification under section 44.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.               Competition Act 2004                         28

(4) In this section —

“notice period” means such period as may be specified with a
   view to giving the Commission sufficient time to consider
   whether to oppose under subsection (2);

“specified” means specified in a block exemption order.

Procedure for block exemptions

 39.—(1) Before making a recommendation under section 36(1), the
Commission must —

       (a) publish details of its proposed recommendation in such a
            way as the Commission thinks most suitable for bringing it
            to the attention of those likely to be affected; and

       (b) consider any representations made to the Commission
            regarding its proposed recommendation.

 (2) If the Minister proposes to give effect to such a recommendation
subject to modifications, the Minister must inform the Commission of
the proposed modifications and take into account any comments
made by the Commission.

Variation and revocation of block exemption orders

 40.—(1) If, in the opinion of the Commission, it is appropriate to
vary or revoke a block exemption order, the Commission may make a
recommendation to that effect to the Minister.

 (2) Section 39 applies to any proposed recommendation under
subsection (1).

 (3) Where there has been no recommendation under subsection (1),
the Minister must, before exercising the Minister’s power to vary or
revoke a block exemption order —

       (a) inform the Commission of the proposed variation or
            revocation; and

       (b) take into account any comments made by the Commission.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
29                    Competition Act 2004                    2020 Ed.

Criteria for block exemptions

41. Section 36 applies to any agreement which contributes to —

    (a) improving production or distribution; or

    (b) promoting technical or economic progress,

but which does not —

    (c) impose on the undertakings concerned restrictions which
        are not indispensable to the attainment of those objectives;
        or

    (d) afford the undertakings concerned the possibility of
         eliminating competition in respect of a substantial part of
         the goods or services in question.

Requests for Commission to examine agreements

 42.—(1) Sections 43 and 44 provide for an agreement to be
examined by the Commission on the application of a party to the
agreement who thinks that it may infringe the section 34 prohibition.

 (2) The Minister may make regulations to provide —

       (a) for the procedure to be followed —

               (i) by any person making an application under
                   subsection (1); and

              (ii) by the Commission, in considering such an
                   application; and

       (b) as to the application of sections 43 to 46 and the procedure
            referred to in paragraph (a), with such modifications (if
            any) as may be prescribed, in cases where the
            Commission —

               (i) has given a direction withdrawing an exclusion; or

              (ii) is considering whether to give such a direction.

Notification for guidance

 43.—(1) A party to an agreement who applies for the agreement to
be examined under this section must —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      30

(a) notify the Commission of the agreement; and

(b) apply to it for guidance.

 (2) On an application under this section, the Commission may give
the applicant guidance as to whether or not, in its view, the agreement
is likely to infringe the section 34 prohibition.

 (3) If the Commission considers that the agreement is likely to
infringe the section 34 prohibition if it is not exempt, its guidance
may indicate whether the agreement is likely to be exempt from the
prohibition under a block exemption.

 (4) If an agreement to which the section 34 prohibition applies has
been notified to the Commission under this section, no penalty may
be imposed under this Part in respect of any infringement of the
prohibition by the agreement which occurs during the period —

(a) beginning with the date on which the notification was
     given; and

(b) ending with such date as may be specified in a written
     notice given to the applicant by the Commission when the
     application has been determined.

 (5) The date specified in a notice under subsection (4)(b) must not
be earlier than the date on which the notice is given.

Notification for decision
 44.—(1) A party to an agreement who applies for the agreement to

be examined under this section must —
       (a) notify the Commission of the agreement; and
       (b) apply to it for a decision.

 (2) On an application under this section, the Commission may make
a decision as to —

       (a) whether the section 34 prohibition has been infringed; and
       (b) if it has not been infringed, whether that is —

               (i) because of the effect of an exclusion;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
31  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    (ii) because the agreement is exempt from the
         prohibition; or

             (iii) because a commitment has been accepted pursuant to
                   section 60A(2).

                                                                                                           [15/2018]

 (3) If an agreement to which the section 34 prohibition applies has
been notified to the Commission under this section, no penalty shall
be imposed under this Part in respect of any infringement of the
prohibition by the agreement which occurs during the period —

    (a) beginning with the date on which the notification was
         given; and

    (b) ending with such date as may be specified in a written
         notice given to the applicant by the Commission when the
         application has been determined.

 (4) The date specified in a notice under subsection (3)(b) must not
be earlier than the date on which the notice is given.

Effect of guidance

 45.—(1) This section applies to an agreement if the Commission
has determined an application under section 43 by giving guidance
that —

       (a) the agreement is unlikely to infringe the section 34
            prohibition, regardless of whether or not it is exempt; or

       (b) the agreement is likely to be exempt under a block
            exemption.

 (2) The Commission must not take any further action in relation to
the section 34 prohibition with respect to an agreement to which this
section applies, unless —

       (a) it has reasonable grounds for believing that there has been
            a material change of circumstance since it gave its
            guidance;

       (b) it has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the
            information on which it based its guidance was
            incomplete, false or misleading in a material particular;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      32

          (c) one of the parties to the agreement applies to it for a
              decision under section 44 with respect to the agreement; or

       (d) a complaint about the agreement has been made to it by a
            person who is not a party to the agreement.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (3) No penalty may be imposed under this Part in respect of any
infringement of the section 34 prohibition by an agreement to which
this section applies.

 (4) The Commission may remove the immunity given by
subsection (3) if —

(a) it takes action under this Part with respect to the agreement
     in one of the circumstances mentioned in subsection (2);

(b) it considers that it is likely that the agreement will infringe
     the section 34 prohibition; and

          (c) it gives written notice to the party on whose application the
              guidance was given that it is removing the immunity as
              from the date specified in its notice.

 (5) If the Commission has reasonable grounds for suspecting that
information —

(a) on which it based its guidance; and

(b) which was provided to it by a party to the agreement,

was incomplete, false or misleading in a material particular, the date
specified in a notice under subsection (4)(c) may be earlier than the
date on which the notice is given.

Effect of decision that section 34 prohibition has not been
infringed

 46.—(1) This section applies to an agreement if the Commission
has determined an application under section 44 by making a decision
that the agreement has not infringed the section 34 prohibition.

 (2) The Commission must not take any further action in relation to
the section 34 prohibition with respect to the agreement unless —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
33  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    (a) it has reasonable grounds for believing that there has been
         a material change of circumstance since it gave its
         decision; or

       (b) it has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the
            information on which it based its decision was
            incomplete, false or misleading in a material particular.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (3) No penalty may be imposed under this Part in respect of any
infringement of the section 34 prohibition by an agreement to which
this section applies.

 (4) The Commission may remove the immunity given by
subsection (3) if —

    (a) it takes action under this Part with respect to the agreement
         in one of the circumstances mentioned in subsection (2);

    (b) it considers that it is likely that the agreement will infringe
         the section 34 prohibition; and

    (c) it gives written notice to the party on whose application the
        decision was made that it is removing the immunity as
        from the date specified in its notice.

 (5) If the Commission has reasonable grounds for suspecting that
information —

    (a) on which it based its decision; and

    (b) which was provided to it by a party to the agreement,

was incomplete, false or misleading in a material particular, the date
specified in a notice under subsection (4)(c) may be earlier than the
date on which the notice is given.

                Division 3 — Abuse of dominant position

Abuse of dominant position

 47.—(1) Subject to section 48, any conduct on the part of one or
more undertakings which amounts to the abuse of a dominant
position in any market in Singapore is prohibited.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      34

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), conduct may, in particular,
constitute such an abuse if it consists in —

(a) predatory behaviour towards competitors;

(b) limiting production, markets or technical development to
     the prejudice of consumers;

          (c) applying dissimilar conditions to equivalent transactions
              with other trading parties, thereby placing them at a
              competitive disadvantage; or

(d) making the conclusion of contracts subject to acceptance
     by the other parties of supplementary obligations which, by
     their nature or according to commercial usage, have no
     connection with the subject of the contracts.

 (3) In this section, “dominant position” means a dominant position
within Singapore or elsewhere.

Excluded cases

 48. The section 47 prohibition does not apply to such matter as may
be specified in the Third Schedule.

Requests for Commission to consider conduct

 49.—(1) Sections 50 and 51 provide for conduct of a person to be
considered by the Commission on the application of that person who
thinks the conduct may infringe the section 47 prohibition.

 (2) The Minister may make regulations to provide for the procedure
to be followed —

       (a) by any person making an application under subsection (1);
            and

       (b) by the Commission, in considering such an application.

Notification for guidance

 50.—(1) A person who applies for conduct to be considered under
this section must —

       (a) notify the Commission of the conduct; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
35  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    (b) apply to it for guidance.

 (2) On an application under this section, the Commission may give
the applicant guidance as to whether or not, in its view, the conduct is
likely to infringe the section 47 prohibition.

Notification for decision

 51.—(1) A person who applies for conduct to be considered under
this section must —

       (a) notify the Commission of the conduct; and

       (b) apply to it for a decision.

 (2) On an application under this section, the Commission may make
a decision as to —

       (a) whether the section 47 prohibition has been infringed; and

       (b) if it has not been infringed, whether that is —

               (i) because of the effect of an exclusion; or

              (ii) because a commitment has been accepted pursuant to
                   section 60A(3).

                                                                                                           [15/2018]

Effect of guidance

 52.—(1) This section applies to conduct if the Commission has
determined an application under section 50 by giving guidance that
the conduct is unlikely to infringe the section 47 prohibition.

 (2) The Commission must not take any further action in relation to
the section 47 prohibition with respect to the conduct to which this
section applies, unless —

       (a) it has reasonable grounds for believing that there has been
            a material change of circumstance since it gave its
            guidance;

       (b) it has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the
            information on which it based its guidance was
            incomplete, false or misleading in a material particular; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      36

       (c) a complaint about the conduct has been made to it.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (3) No penalty may be imposed under this Part in respect of any
infringement of the section 47 prohibition by conduct to which this
section applies.

 (4) The Commission may remove the immunity given by
subsection (3) if —

(a) it takes action under this Part with respect to the conduct in
     one of the circumstances mentioned in subsection (2);

(b) it considers that it is likely that the conduct will infringe the
     section 47 prohibition; and

          (c) it gives written notice to the undertaking on whose
              application the guidance was given that it is removing
              the immunity as from the date specified in its notice.

 (5) If the Commission has reasonable grounds for suspecting that
information —

(a) on which it based its guidance; and

(b) which was provided to it by an undertaking engaging in the
     conduct,

was incomplete, false or misleading in a material particular, the date
specified in a notice under subsection (4)(c) may be earlier than the
date on which the notice is given.

Effect of decision that section 47 prohibition has not been
infringed

 53.—(1) This section applies to conduct if the Commission has
determined an application under section 51 by making a decision that
the conduct has not infringed the section 47 prohibition.

 (2) The Commission must not take any further action in relation to
the section 47 prohibition with respect to the conduct unless —

       (a) it has reasonable grounds for believing that there has been
            a material change of circumstance since it gave its
            decision; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
37  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

       (b) it has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the
            information on which it based its decision was
            incomplete, false or misleading in a material particular.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (3) No penalty may be imposed under this Part in respect of any
infringement of the section 47 prohibition by conduct to which this
section applies.

 (4) The Commission may remove the immunity given by
subsection (3) if —

    (a) it takes action under this Part with respect to the conduct in
         one of the circumstances mentioned in subsection (2);

    (b) it considers that it is likely that the conduct will infringe the
         section 47 prohibition; and

    (c) it gives written notice to the undertaking on whose
        application the decision was made that it is removing the
        immunity as from the date specified in its notice.

 (5) If the Commission has reasonable grounds for suspecting that
information —

    (a) on which it based its decision; and

    (b) which was provided to it by an undertaking engaging in the
         conduct,

was incomplete, false or misleading in a material particular, the date
specified in a notice under subsection (4)(c) may be earlier than the
date on which the notice is given.

                           Division 4 — Mergers

Mergers

 54.—(1) Subject to section 55, mergers that have resulted, or may
be expected to result, in a substantial lessening of competition within
any market in Singapore for goods or services are prohibited.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      38

(2) For the purposes of this Part, a merger occurs if —

(a) 2 or more undertakings, previously independent of one
     another, merge;

(b) one or more persons or other undertakings acquire direct or
     indirect control of the whole or part of one or more other
     undertakings; or

       (c) the result of an acquisition by one undertaking (the first
            undertaking) of the assets (including goodwill), or a
            substantial part of the assets, of another undertaking (the
            second undertaking) is to place the first undertaking in a
            position to replace or substantially replace the second
            undertaking in the business or, as appropriate, the part
            concerned of the business in which that undertaking was
            engaged immediately before the acquisition.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (3) For the purposes of this Part, control is, in relation to an
undertaking, regarded as existing if, by reason of rights, contracts or
any other means, or any combination of rights, contracts or other
means, decisive influence is capable of being exercised with regard to
the activities of the undertaking and, in particular, by —

(a) ownership of, or the right to use all or part of, the assets of
     an undertaking; or

       (b) rights or contracts which enable decisive influence to be
            exercised with regard to the composition, voting or
            decisions of the organs of an undertaking.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (4) For the purposes of this Part, control is acquired by any person
or other undertaking if that person or undertaking —

(a) becomes a holder of the rights or contracts, or entitled to
     use the other means, referred to in subsection (3); or

(b) although not becoming such a holder or entitled to use
     those other means, acquires the power to exercise the rights
     derived therefrom.

                                                                                                 [23/2007]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
39  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

 (5) The creation of a joint venture to perform, on a lasting basis, all
the functions of an autonomous economic entity constitutes a merger
falling within subsection (2)(b).

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (6) In determining whether influence of the kind referred to in
subsection (3) is capable of being exercised, regard must be had to all
the circumstances of the matter and not solely to the legal effect of
any instrument, deed, transfer, assignment or other act done or made.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (7) For the purposes of this Part, a merger is not to be deemed to
occur if —

    (a) the person acquiring control is a receiver or liquidator
         acting as such or is an underwriter acting as such;

    (b) all of the undertakings involved in the merger are, directly
         or indirectly, under the control of the same undertaking;

    (c) control is acquired solely as a result of a testamentary
        disposition, intestacy or the right of survivorship under a
        joint tenancy; or

       (d) control is acquired by an undertaking referred to in
            subsection (8) in the circumstances specified in
            subsection (9).

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (8) The undertaking referred to in subsection (7)(d) is an
undertaking the normal activities of which include the carrying out
of transactions and dealings in securities for its own account or for the
account of others.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (9) The circumstances referred to in subsection (7)(d) are that —

    (a) the control concerned is constituted by the undertaking’s
         holding, on a temporary basis, securities acquired in
         another undertaking; and

    (b) any exercise by the undertaking of voting rights in respect
         of those securities, whilst that control subsists —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      40

          (i) is for the purpose of arranging for the disposal,
              within the specified period, of all or part of the other
              undertaking or its assets or securities; and

            (ii) is not for the purpose of determining the manner in
                  which any activity of the other undertaking, being an
                  activity that could affect competition in markets for
                  goods or services in Singapore, is carried on.

                                                                                                         [23/2007]

(10) In subsection (9), “specified period” means —

(a) the period of 12 months from the date on which control of
     the other undertaking was acquired; or

(b) if in a particular case the undertaking shows that it is not
     reasonably possible to effect the disposal concerned within
     the period referred to in paragraph (a), within such longer
     period as the Commission determines and specifies with
     respect to that case.

                                                                                                 [23/2007]

Excluded mergers

 55. The section 54 prohibition does not apply to any merger
specified in the Fourth Schedule.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

Confidential advice by Commission on anticipated mergers

 55A.—(1) A party to an anticipated merger may apply to the
Commission for its advice as to whether the view of the Commission
is that the anticipated merger, if carried into effect, is likely to infringe
the section 54 prohibition.

                                                                                                           [15/2018]

 (2) Subject to regulations made under subsection (5), the
Commission may issue the advice under subsection (1) if the
Commission is satisfied —

       (a) that all parties to the anticipated merger intend to carry into
            effect the anticipated merger;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
41  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    (b) that no information relating to the anticipated merger is in
         the public domain at the time that the application under
         subsection (1) is made; and

       (c) if information relating to the anticipated merger enters the
            public domain after the application under subsection (1) is
            made, that there are good reasons for the applicant not
            notifying the Commission of the anticipated merger and
            not applying to the Commission for its decision, under
            section 57.

                                                                                                           [15/2018]

 (3) Despite subsection (2), the Commission may refuse to issue the
advice mentioned in subsection (1) if the Commission is of the view
that, given the facts and circumstances of the anticipated merger, the
parties to the anticipated merger are able to assess whether an
application under section 57 in respect of the anticipated merger
should be made without the advice.

                                                                                                           [15/2018]

 (4) Advice issued by the Commission under this section is not
binding on the Commission.

                                                                                                           [15/2018]

 (5) The Minister may make regulations to provide —

    (a) that the Commission may issue advice under this section in
         relation to only such anticipated mergers as are prescribed;
         and

    (b) for the procedure to be followed —

    (i) by any party making an application under this
        section; and

    (ii) by the Commission, in considering such an
         application.

                                                                                           [15/2018]

Requests for Commission to consider anticipated mergers and
mergers

 56.—(1) Section 57 provides for an anticipated merger to be
considered by the Commission on the application of a party to that

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      42

anticipated merger who thinks the anticipated merger, if carried into
effect, may infringe the section 54 prohibition.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (2) Section 58 provides for a merger to be considered by the
Commission on the application of a party involved in that merger who
thinks the merger may infringe the section 54 prohibition.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (3) The Minister may by regulations provide —

(a) that only such anticipated mergers as are prescribed may be
     notified to the Commission under section 57; and

(b) for the procedure to be followed —

          (i) by any party making an application under section 57
              or 58; and

          (ii) by the Commission, in considering such an
               application.

                                                                                                 [23/2007]

Notification of anticipated merger

 57.—(1) A party to an anticipated merger of the relevant type which
applies for the anticipated merger to be considered under this section
must —

       (a) notify the Commission of the anticipated merger; and

       (b) apply to it for a decision.

 (2) Subject to subsections (3) and (5) and sections 60A(1) and
60B(1), on an application under this section, the Commission may
make a decision as to —

       (a) whether the section 54 prohibition will be infringed by the
            anticipated merger, if carried into effect; and

       (b) if it will not be infringed, whether it is —

               (i) because of the effect of an exclusion which will
                   apply if the anticipated merger is carried into effect;

              (ii) because the anticipated merger, if carried into effect,
                   is exempted from the application of the prohibition
                   under subsection (3); or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
43  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

             (iii) because a commitment has been accepted pursuant to
                   section 60A(1).

                                                                                                [23/2007; 15/2018]

 (3) Where the Commission proposes to make a decision that the
section 54 prohibition will be infringed by an anticipated merger, if
carried into effect, the Commission must give written notice to the
party who applied for a decision on the anticipated merger and the
party may, within 14 days of the date of the notice, apply to the
Minister for the anticipated merger, if carried into effect, to be
exempted from the section 54 prohibition on the ground of any public
interest consideration.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (4) The decision of the Minister made under subsection (3) is final.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (5) Where the Minister exempts an anticipated merger under
subsection (3), the Commission may make a decision under
subsection (2)(b)(ii).

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (6) The Minister may revoke the exemption of an anticipated
merger granted under subsection (3) if the Minister has reasonable
grounds for suspecting that the information on which the Minister
based his or her decision was incomplete, false or misleading in a
material particular.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (7) Subject to subsection (8), where the Commission makes a
decision that an anticipated merger, if carried into effect, will not
infringe the section 54 prohibition, the Commission may, if it thinks
fit, state that the decision is valid only for the period it specifies
therein.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (8) Before the expiry of the period referred to in subsection (7), if
any, an application may be made by all parties to the anticipated
merger who applied to the Commission for a decision on the
anticipated merger under this section for that period to be extended.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (9) Where an application for an anticipated merger to be considered
has been made to the Commission in accordance with subsection (1)
and the anticipated merger is carried into effect before the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.                Competition Act 2004                        44

Commission makes a decision under subsection (2) in respect thereof,
the application relating to the anticipated merger —

(a) may be treated by the Commission as if it were an
     application for the resulting merger to be considered made
     in accordance with section 58; and

       (b) the Commission may make a decision under section 58 in
            respect of the resulting merger.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (10) For the purpose of subsection (9), the Commission may make a
decision under section 58(2)(b)(ii) (read with section 58(5)) in
respect of the merger referred to in subsection (9), even though the
exemption was granted by the Minister under subsection (3) in
respect of the anticipated merger.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (11) Despite subsection (9), the Commission may refuse to make
any decision in respect of a merger referred to therein and require any
party involved in the merger to apply to the Commission for the
merger to be considered under section 58(1).

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (12) In this section, “an anticipated merger of the relevant type”
means an anticipated merger of the type prescribed by regulations
made under section 56(3)(a).

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

Notification of merger

 58.—(1) A party involved in a merger which applies for the merger
to be considered under this section must —

(a) notify the Commission of the merger; and

(b) apply to it for a decision.

                                                                    [23/2007]

 (2) Subject to subsections (3) and (5) and sections 60A(1) and
60B(1), on an application under this section, the Commission may
make a decision as to —

(a) whether the section 54 prohibition has been infringed; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
45  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    (b) if it has not been infringed, whether that is —

    (i) because of the effect of an exclusion;

    (ii) because the merger is exempted from the prohibition
         under subsection (3); or

             (iii) because a commitment has been accepted pursuant to
                   section 60A(1).

                                                                                                [23/2007; 15/2018]

 (3) Where the Commission proposes to make a decision that the
section 54 prohibition has been infringed, the Commission must give
written notice to —

    (a) the party who applied for a decision on the merger; or

    (b) in a case where section 57(9) applies, the party who applied
         for a decision on the anticipated merger (which was carried
         into effect) or, where that party no longer exists, the
         merged entity,

and the party or merged entity so notified by the Commission may,
within 14 days of the date of the notice, apply to the Minister for the
merger to be exempted from the section 54 prohibition on the ground
of any public interest consideration.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (4) The decision of the Minister made under subsection (3) is final.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (5) Where the Minister exempts a merger under subsection (3), the
Commission may make a decision under subsection (2)(b)(ii).

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (6) The Minister may revoke the exemption of a merger granted
under subsection (3) if the Minister has reasonable grounds for
suspecting that the information on which the Minister based his or her
decision was incomplete, false or misleading in a material particular.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (7) A reference in any provision of this Act to an application or a
notification under section 58 includes a reference to an application or
a notification under section 57 that the Commission treats as an
application or a notification under section 58 pursuant to
section 57(9).

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      46

Interim measures in relation to notifications of anticipated
mergers and mergers

 58A.—(1) If, in respect of an application under section 57 or 58, the
Commission has reasonable grounds for suspecting that —

(a) the section 54 prohibition will be infringed by an
     anticipated merger, if carried into effect; or

(b) the section 54 prohibition has been infringed by a merger,

but has not completed its consideration of the matter, and the
Commission considers that it is necessary for it to act under this
section —

          (c) for the purpose of preventing any action that may
              prejudice —

          (i) the consideration of the anticipated merger or
              merger; or

          (ii) the giving of any direction under section 69; or

(d) as a matter of urgency for the purpose —

          (i) of preventing serious, irreparable damage to a
              particular person or category of persons; or

          (ii) of protecting the public interest,

the Commission may give such directions as it considers appropriate
for that purpose.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (2) Before giving a direction under this section, the Commission
must —

(a) give written notice to the person to whom it proposes to
     give the direction; and

       (b) give that person an opportunity to make representations.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (3) A notice under subsection (2) must indicate the nature of the
direction which the Commission is proposing to give and its reasons
for wishing to give it.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
47  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

 (4) A direction given under this section has effect while
subsection (1) applies, but may be replaced if the circumstances
permit by a direction under section 69.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (5) Sections 69(2)(c)(i) and (d)(i) and 85 also apply to directions
given under this section.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

Effect of decision that anticipated merger, if carried into effect,
will not infringe section 54 prohibition

 59.—(1) This section applies to an anticipated merger in respect of
which the Commission has determined an application under
section 57 by making a decision that the anticipated merger, if
carried into effect, will not infringe the section 54 prohibition.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (2) The Commission must not take any further action in relation to
the section 54 prohibition with respect to the anticipated merger
(including where the anticipated merger is carried into effect, or if the
Commission’s decision is valid for a specified period, where the
anticipated merger is carried into effect within that period) unless —

       (a) it has reasonable grounds for suspecting that any
            information on which it based its decision (which may
            include information on the basis of which it accepted a
            commitment) was incomplete, false or misleading in a
            material particular; or

       (b) it has reasonable grounds for suspecting that a party who
            provided a commitment has failed to adhere to one or more
            of the terms of the commitment.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (3) Action that may be taken in respect of the circumstances
referred to in subsection (2) may include the revocation of the
decision that the anticipated merger, if carried into effect, will not
infringe the section 54 prohibition.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (4) No penalty may be imposed under this Part in respect of any
infringement of the section 54 prohibition by the anticipated merger
to which this section applies, if carried into effect or, where the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      48

Commission’s decision is valid for a specified period, if carried into
effect within that period.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (5) The Commission may remove the immunity given by
subsection (4) if —

(a) it takes action under this Part with respect to one of the
     circumstances referred to in subsection (2);

(b) it considers that it is likely that the anticipated merger, if
     carried into effect, or the resulting merger will infringe the
     section 54 prohibition; and

       (c) it gives written notice to the party on whose application the
            decision was made that it is removing the immunity as
            from the date specified in its notice.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (6) If the Commission has reasonable grounds for suspecting
that —

(a) any information on which it based its decision (which may
     include information on the basis of which it accepted a
     commitment), and which was provided to it by a party to
     the anticipated merger, was incomplete, false or
     misleading in a material particular; or

(b) a party who provided a commitment has failed to adhere to
     one or more of the terms of the commitment,

the date specified in a notice under subsection (5)(c) may be earlier
than the date on which the notice is given.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (7) Where —

(a) the Commission has made a decision that an anticipated
     merger, if carried into effect, will not infringe the
     section 54 prohibition; and

(b) the merger resulting from a purported carrying into effect
     of the anticipated merger is materially different from the
     anticipated merger,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
49  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

nothing in this section prevents the Commission from taking any
action in relation to the section 54 prohibition in respect of the
merger.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

Effect of decision that merger has not infringed section 54
prohibition

 60.—(1) This section applies to a merger if the Commission has
determined an application under section 58 by making a decision that
the merger has not infringed the section 54 prohibition.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (2) The Commission must not take any further action in relation to
the section 54 prohibition with respect to the merger unless —

       (a) it has reasonable grounds for suspecting that any
            information on which it based its decision (which may
            include information on the basis of which it accepted a
            commitment) was incomplete, false or misleading in a
            material particular; or

       (b) it has reasonable grounds for suspecting that a party who
            provided a commitment has failed to adhere to one or more
            of the terms of the commitment.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (3) Action that may be taken in respect of the circumstances
referred to in subsection (2) may include the revocation of the
decision that the merger has not infringed the section 54 prohibition.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (4) No penalty may be imposed under this Part in respect of any
infringement of the section 54 prohibition by a merger to which this
section applies.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (5) The Commission may remove the immunity given by
subsection (4) if —

       (a) it takes action under this Part with respect to the merger in
            one of the circumstances mentioned in subsection (2);

       (b) it considers that it is likely that the merger will infringe the
            section 54 prohibition; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      50

          (c) it gives written notice to —

          (i) the party on whose application the decision was
              made; or

          (ii) in a case where section 57(9) applies, the party who
               applied for a decision on the anticipated merger
               (which was carried into effect) or, where that party
               no longer exists, the merged entity,

       (c) that it is removing the immunity as from the date specified
            in its notice.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (6) If the Commission has reasonable grounds for suspecting
that —

(a) any information on which it based its decision (which may
     include information on the basis of which it accepted a
     commitment), and which was provided to it by a party
     involved in the merger, was incomplete, false or
     misleading in a material particular; or

(b) a party who provided a commitment has failed to adhere to
     one or more of the terms of the commitment,

the date specified in a notice under subsection (5)(c) may be earlier
than the date on which the notice is given.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

                       Division 4A — Commitments

Commitments

 60A.—(1) The Commission may, at any time before making a
decision pursuant to an application under section 57 or 58 or an
investigation under section 62(1)(c) or (d) as to whether —

       (a) the section 54 prohibition will be infringed by an
            anticipated merger, if carried into effect; or

       (b) the section 54 prohibition has been infringed by a merger,

accept from such person as it thinks appropriate, a commitment to
take or refrain from taking such action as it considers appropriate for

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
51  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

the purpose of remedying, mitigating or preventing the substantial
lessening of competition or any adverse effect which —

    (c) may be expected to result from the anticipated merger, if
        carried into effect; or

       (d) has resulted or may be expected to result from the merger.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (2) The Commission may, at any time before making a decision
pursuant to an application under section 44 or an investigation under
section 62(1)(a) as to whether the section 34 prohibition has been
infringed by an agreement, accept from such person as the
Commission thinks appropriate, a commitment to take or refrain
from taking such action as the Commission considers appropriate for
the purpose of remedying, mitigating or preventing the prevention,
restriction or distortion of competition which has resulted or may be
expected to result from the agreement.

                                                                                                           [15/2018]

 (3) The Commission may, at any time before making a decision
pursuant to an application under section 51 or an investigation under
section 62(1)(b) as to whether the section 47 prohibition has been
infringed by any conduct, accept from such person as the
Commission thinks appropriate, a commitment to take or refrain
from taking such action as the Commission considers appropriate for
the purpose of remedying, mitigating or preventing the abuse of a
dominant position in a market which has resulted or may be expected
to result from the conduct.

                                                                                                           [15/2018]

 (4) A commitment comes into force on the date specified by the
Commission when it is accepted.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (5) The Commission may, at any time when a commitment is in
force, accept —

    (a) a variation of the commitment; or

    (b) another commitment in substitution,

for the purpose referred to in subsection (1), (2) or (3), whichever is
applicable, and any reference to a commitment accepted under any of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.             Competition Act 2004                           52

those subsections includes a reference to a commitment varied or
substituted under this subsection.

                                                                                                [23/2007; 15/2018]

 (6) A commitment may be released by the Commission where it has
reasonable grounds for believing that the commitment is no longer
necessary or appropriate for the purpose referred to in subsection (1),
(2) or (3), whichever is applicable.

                                                                                                [23/2007; 15/2018]

 (7) Before accepting, varying, substituting or releasing a
commitment, the Commission must, except in exceptional
circumstances, consult with such person as it thinks appropriate.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

Effect of commitments

 60B.—(1) Where the Commission has accepted a commitment
under section 60A(1), and subject to subsection (4), the Commission
must make a decision that —

(a) the section 54 prohibition will not be infringed by an
     anticipated merger, if carried into effect; or

(b) the section 54 prohibition has not been infringed by a
     merger,

as the case may be.

                                           [23/2007; 15/2018]

 (2) Where the Commission has accepted a commitment under
section 60A(2) in relation to an agreement, and subject to
subsection (4), the Commission must make a decision that the
section 34 prohibition has not been infringed by the agreement.

                                                                                                           [15/2018]

 (3) Where the Commission has accepted a commitment under
section 60A(3) in relation to any conduct, and subject to
subsection (4), the Commission must make a decision that the
section 47 prohibition has not been infringed by the conduct.

                                                                                                           [15/2018]

 (4) Nothing in subsection (1), (2) or (3) prevents the Commission
from revoking the decision already made, commencing or continuing
any investigation, or making a decision or giving a direction,
where —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
53  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    (a) it has reasonable grounds for suspecting that any
         information on the basis of which it accepted a
         commitment was incomplete, false or misleading in a
         material particular; or

       (b) it has reasonable grounds for suspecting that a party who
            provided a commitment has failed to adhere to one or more
            of the terms of the commitment.

                                                                                                [23/2007; 15/2018]

 (5) If the Commission revokes a decision referred to in
subsection (1), (2) or (3), the commitment is treated, unless
otherwise stated, as released from the date of that revocation.

                                                                                                [23/2007; 15/2018]

 (6) The Commission may review the effectiveness of commitments
it has accepted under section 60A in such circumstances as it
considers appropriate.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

                         Division 5 — Enforcement

Guidelines on enforcement of Part

 61.—(1) The Commission may, with a view to enabling any person
to order the person’s affairs in compliance with the provisions of this
Part, cause to be published in the Gazette guidelines indicating the
manner in which the Commission will interpret, and give effect to, the
provisions of this Part.

 (2) For the purpose of preparing any guidelines under
subsection (1), the Commission may consult with such persons as
it thinks appropriate.

 (3) Where the guidelines would apply to an industry or a sector of
industry that is subject to the regulation and control of another
regulatory authority, the Commission must, in preparing those
guidelines, consult with that regulatory authority.

 (4) Guidelines published under this section are not binding on the
Commission.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      54

Power to require documents or information

61A.—(1) Where the Commission —

(a) has reasonable grounds for suspecting that any feature, or
     combination of features, of a market in Singapore for
     goods or services prevents, restricts or distorts competition
     in connection with the supply or acquisition of any goods
     or services in Singapore; or

(b) in considering an application for decision filed pursuant to
     section 44, 51, 57 or 58, has reasonable grounds for
     suspecting that —

          (i) the section 34 prohibition has been infringed by any
              agreement;

          (ii) the section 47 prohibition has been infringed by any
               conduct;

          (iii) the section 54 prohibition will be infringed by any
                anticipated merger, if carried into effect; or

          (iv) the section 54 prohibition has been infringed by any
               merger,

the Commission may, by written notice to any person, require the
person to produce to the Commission a specified document, or to
provide the Commission with specified information, which the
Commission considers relates to any matter relevant to such
purposes.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (2) A notice under subsection (1) must indicate —

(a) the purpose for which the specified document or specified
     information is required by the Commission; and

      (b) the nature of the offences created by sections 75 to 78.

                                                                                                         [23/2007]

(3) The Commission may specify in the notice —

(a) the time and place at which any document is to be produced
     or any information is to be provided; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
55  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

       (b) the manner and form in which it is to be produced or
            provided.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (4) The power under this section to require a person (P) to produce
a document includes the power —

    (a) if the document is produced —

    (i) to take copies of it or extracts from it; and

    (ii) to require P, or any person who is a present or past
         officer of P, or is or was at any time employed by P,
         to provide an explanation of the document; or

       (b) if the document is not produced, to require P to state, to the
            best of P’s knowledge and belief, where it is.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (1)(a), any reference to a feature
of a market in Singapore for goods or services is construed as a
reference to —

    (a) the structure of the market concerned or any aspect of that
         structure;

    (b) any conduct (whether or not in the market concerned) of
         one or more than one person who supplies or acquires
         goods or services in the market concerned; or

    (c) any conduct relating to the market concerned of customers
        of any person who supplies or acquires goods or services,

and, in this subsection, “conduct” includes any failure to act (whether
or not intentional) and any other unintentional conduct.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (6) In subsections (1) and (2), “specified” means —

    (a) specified or described in the notice; or

    (b) falling within a category which is specified or described in
         the notice.

                                                                                                     [23/2007]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.              Competition Act 2004                          56

Power to investigate

 62.—(1) The Commission may conduct an investigation if there are
reasonable grounds for suspecting that —

(a) the section 34 prohibition has been infringed by any
     agreement;

(b) the section 47 prohibition has been infringed by any
     conduct;

          (c) the section 54 prohibition will be infringed by any
              anticipated merger, if carried into effect; or

       (d) the section 54 prohibition has been infringed by any
            merger.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the Commission may appoint
an inspector to conduct the investigation.

Power when conducting investigation

 63.—(1) For the purposes of an investigation under section 62, the
Commission or the inspector may, by written notice to any person,
require that person to produce to the Commission or the inspector a
specified document, or to provide the Commission or the inspector
with specified information, which the Commission or the inspector
considers relates to any matter relevant to the investigation.

 (2) A notice under subsection (1) must indicate —

       (a) the subject matter and purpose of the investigation; and

       (b) the nature of the offences created by sections 75 to 78.

 (3) The Commission or the inspector may also specify in the
notice —

       (a) the time and place at which any document is to be produced
            or any information is to be provided; and

       (b) the manner and form in which it is to be produced or
            provided.

 (4) The power under this section to require a person (P) to produce
a document includes the power —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
57  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    (a) if the document is produced —

    (i) to take copies of it or extracts from it; and

    (ii) to require P, or any person who is a present or past
         officer of P, or is or was at any time employed by P,
         to provide an explanation of the document; or

    (b) if the document is not produced, to require P to state, to the
         best of P’s knowledge and belief, where it is.

 (5) For the purposes of an investigation under section 62, a person
who is empowered to enter any premises under section 64(1), or who
is authorised under a warrant under section 65 to enter the premises
specified in the warrant, may —

    (a) orally examine any individual on the premises who appears
         to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances relevant
         to the investigation that is being carried out; and

       (b) require the individual to answer any question relating to the
            investigation.

                                                                                                           [15/2018]

 (6) Any information provided verbally by an individual under
subsection (1), or any answer given or statement made by an
individual under subsection (5), must —

    (a) be reduced to writing;

    (b) be read over to the individual;

    (c) if the individual does not understand English, be
        interpreted in a language that the individual understands;
        and

      (d) after correction (if any), be signed by the individual.

                                                                                                         [15/2018]

(7) In subsection (1), “specified” means —

    (a) specified, or described, in the notice; or

    (b) falling within a category which is specified, or described,
         in the notice.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      58

Power to enter premises without warrant

64.—(1) In connection with an investigation under section 62 —

(a) any officer of the Commission who is authorised by the
     Commission to do so (an investigating officer) and such
     other officers or persons as the Commission has authorised
     in writing to accompany the investigating officer
     (authorised person); and

(b) any inspector and such other person as the inspector may
     require,

may enter any premises.

                                                                    [23/2007]

 (2) An investigating officer or inspector, and an authorised person
or person required by the inspector respectively, must not enter any
premises in the exercise of the powers under this section unless the
investigating officer or the inspector (as the case may be) has given
the occupier of the premises a written notice which —

(a) gives at least 2 working days’ notice of the intended entry;

(b) indicates the subject matter and purpose of the
     investigation; and

      (c) indicates the nature of the offences created by sections 75
           to 78.

                                                                                                         [23/2007]

(3) Subsection (2) does not apply —

(a) if the investigating officer or inspector has reasonable
     grounds for suspecting that the premises are, or have been,
     occupied by an undertaking which is being investigated in
     relation to —

          (i) an agreement referred to in section 34;

          (ii) conduct referred to in section 47; or

          (iii) an anticipated merger, or a merger referred to in
                section 54; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
59  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

       (b) if the investigating officer or inspector has taken all such
            steps as are reasonably practicable to give notice but has
            not been able to do so.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (4) Where subsection (3) applies, the power of entry conferred by
subsection (1) must be exercised —

    (a) in the case of an investigating officer and any authorised
         person, upon production of —

    (i) evidence of the investigating officer’s authorisation
        and the authorisation of every authorised person
        accompanying him or her; and

    (ii) a document containing the information referred to in
         subsection (2)(b) and (c); and

    (b) in the case of an inspector and any person required by the
         inspector, upon production of —

    (i) evidence of the inspector’s appointment; and

              (ii) a document containing the information referred to in
                   subsection (2)(b) and (c).

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (5) An investigating officer, an authorised person, an inspector or a
person required by the inspector entering any premises under this
section may —

    (a) take with him or her such equipment as appears to him or
         her to be necessary;

    (b) require any person on the premises —

    (i) to produce any document which the investigating
        officer, authorised person, inspector or person
        required by the inspector considers relates to any
        matter relevant to the investigation; and

    (ii) if the document is produced, to provide an
         explanation of it;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      60

          (c) require any person to state, to the best of the person’s
              knowledge and belief, where any document mentioned in
              paragraph (b)(i) is to be found;

(d) take copies of, or extracts from, any document which is
     produced;

          (e) require any information which is stored in any electronic
              form and is accessible from the premises and which he or
              she considers relates to any matter relevant to the
              investigation, to be produced in a form —

          (i) in which it can be taken away; and

          (ii) in which it is visible and legible; and

        (f) take any step which appears to be necessary for the purpose
            of preserving or preventing interference with any
            document which he or she considers relates to any
            matter relevant to the investigation.

                                                                                                [23/2007; 15/2018]

 (6) The power to require any person on the premises to produce any
document under subsection (5)(b) includes the power to require that
person to produce the document at such time and place, and in such
form and manner, as may be required by the investigating officer,
authorised person, inspector or person required by the inspector.

                                                                                                           [15/2018]

Power to enter premises under warrant

 65.—(1) The Commission or any inspector may apply to a court for
a warrant and the court may issue such a warrant if it is satisfied
that —

       (a) there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that there are
            on any premises documents —

               (i) the production of which has been required under
                   section 63 or 64; and

              (ii) which have not been produced as required;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
61  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    (b) there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that —

    (i) there are on any premises documents which the
        Commission or the inspector has power under
        section 63 to require to be produced; and

    (ii) if the documents were required to be produced, they
         would not be produced but would be concealed,
         removed, tampered with or destroyed; or

       (c) an investigating officer, an authorised person, an inspector
            or a person required by the inspector has attempted to enter
            the premises in the exercise of his or her powers under
            section 64 but has been unable to do so and that there are
            reasonable grounds for suspecting that there are on the
            premises documents the production of which could have
            been required under that section.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (2) A warrant under this section must authorise a named officer,
and —

    (a) in the case of an investigation conducted by the
         Commission, such other officers or persons as the
         Commission has authorised in writing to accompany the
         named officer; and

    (b) in the case of an investigation conducted by an inspector,
         such other persons as the inspector may require,

to do all or any of the following:

    (c) to enter the premises specified in the warrant, using such
        force as is reasonably necessary for the purpose;

    (d) to search any person on those premises if there are
         reasonable grounds for believing that that person has in his
         or her possession any document, equipment or article
         which has a bearing on the investigation;

    (e) to search the premises and take copies of, or extracts from,
        any document appearing to be of a kind in respect of which
        the application under subsection (1) was granted (the
        relevant kind);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      62

          (f) to take possession of any document appearing to be of the
              relevant kind if —

          (i) such action appears to be necessary for preserving
              the document or preventing interference with it; or

          (ii) it is not reasonably practicable to take copies of the
               document on the premises;

(g) to take any other step which appears to be necessary for the
     purpose mentioned in paragraph (f)(i);

(h) to require any person to provide an explanation of any
     document appearing to be of the relevant kind or to state, to
     the best of his or her knowledge and belief, where it may be
     found;

          (i) to require any person on the premises to produce any
              document of the relevant kind at the time and place, and in
              the form and manner, required by the named officer or
              other officer or person whom the Commission has
              authorised in writing to accompany the named officer, or
              by any other person required under paragraph (b) by an
              inspector;

          (j) to require any information which is stored in any electronic
              form and is accessible from the premises and which he or
              she considers relates to any matter relevant to the
              investigation, to be produced in a form —

          (i) in which it can be taken away; and

          (ii) in which it is visible and legible;

       (k) to remove from those premises for examination any
            equipment or article which relates to any matter relevant
            to the investigation.

                                                                                                [23/2007; 15/2018]

 (3) If, in the case of a warrant under subsection (1)(b), the court is
satisfied that it is reasonable to suspect that there are also on the
premises other documents relating to the investigation concerned, the
warrant must also authorise the actions mentioned in subsection (2) to
be taken in relation to any such document.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
63  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

 (4) Where possession of any document is taken under
subsection (2)(f) or (3), the named officer may, at the request of
the person from whom possession of the document was taken,
provide such person with a copy of the document.

 (5) A named officer may allow any equipment or article which has a
bearing on an investigation and which may be removed from any
premises for examination under subsection (2)(k) to be retained on
those premises subject to such conditions as the named officer may
require.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (6) Any person who fails to comply with any condition imposed
under subsection (5) shall be guilty of an offence.

(7) A warrant issued under this section must indicate —

    (a) the subject matter and purpose of the investigation; and

    (b) the nature of the offences created by sections 75 to 78,

and continues in force until the end of the period of one month
beginning from the day on which it is issued.

 (8) The powers conferred by this section must not be exercised
except upon production of a warrant issued under this section.

 (9) Any person entering premises by virtue of a warrant under this
section may take with him or her such equipment as appears to the
person to be necessary.

 (10) If there is no one at the premises when the named officer
proposes to execute such a warrant, the named officer must, before
executing it —

    (a) take such steps as are reasonable in all the circumstances to
         inform the occupier of the intended entry; and

    (b) if the occupier is informed, afford the occupier or the
         occupier’s legal or other representative a reasonable
         opportunity to be present when the warrant is executed.

 (11) If the named officer is unable to inform the occupier of the
intended entry, the named officer must, when executing the warrant,
leave a copy of it in a prominent place on the premises.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      64

 (12) On leaving any premises which the named officer has entered
by virtue of a warrant under this section, the named officer must, if
the premises are unoccupied or the occupier is temporarily absent,
leave them as effectively secured as he or she found them.

 (13) Any document of which possession is taken under
subsection (2)(f) may be retained for a period of 3 months.

(14) In this section —

“named officer” means —

          (a) an officer of the Commission named in the warrant;
               or

          (b) the inspector named in the warrant,

          as the case may be;

“occupier”, in relation to any premises, means a person whom
   the named officer reasonably believes is the occupier of those
   premises.

Self-incrimination and savings for professional legal advisers

 66.—(1) A person is not excused from disclosing any information
or document to the Commission or (as the case may be) to an
investigating officer, such officer or person as the Commission has
authorised in writing to accompany the investigating officer, an
inspector or a person required by the inspector, under a requirement
made of him or her under any provision of this Act on the ground that
the disclosure of the information or document might tend to
incriminate him or her.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (2) Where a person claims, before making a statement disclosing
information that he or she is required to under any provision of this
Act to the Commission or (as the case may be) to an investigating
officer, such officer or person as the Commission has authorised in
writing to accompany the investigating officer, an inspector or a
person required by the inspector, that the statement might tend to
incriminate him or her, that statement —

       (a) is not admissible in evidence against him or her in criminal
            proceedings other than proceedings under Part 5; but

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
65  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

      (b) is, for the avoidance of doubt, admissible in evidence in
           civil proceedings, including proceedings under this Act.

                                                                                                         [23/2007]

(3) Nothing in this Part —

    (a) compels a professional legal adviser to disclose or produce
         a privileged communication, or a document or other
         material containing a privileged communication, made
         by or to him or her in that capacity; or

    (b) authorises the taking of any such document or other
         material which is in his or her possession.

 (4) A professional legal adviser who refuses to disclose the
information or produce the document or other material referred to
in subsection (3) is nevertheless obliged to give the name and address
(if the adviser knows them) of the person to whom, or by or on behalf
of whom, that privileged communication was made.

Interim measures

 67.—(1) If the Commission —

       (a) has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the section 34
            prohibition or the section 47 prohibition has been infringed
            but has not completed its investigations into the matter; and

       (b) considers that it is necessary for it to act under this section
            as a matter of urgency for the purpose —

               (i) of preventing serious, irreparable damage to a
                   particular person or category of persons; or

              (ii) of protecting the public interest,

the Commission may give such directions as it considers appropriate
for that purpose.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (2) If the Commission has reasonable grounds for suspecting that
the section 54 prohibition —

       (a) will be infringed by an anticipated merger, if carried into
            effect; or

       (b) has been infringed by a merger,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      66

but has not completed its investigations into the matter, and considers
that it is necessary for it to act under this section —

          (c) for the purpose of preventing any action that may
              prejudice —

          (i) the investigations; or

          (ii) the giving of any direction under section 69; or

(d) as a matter of urgency for the purpose —

          (i) of preventing serious, irreparable damage to a
              particular person or category of persons; or

          (ii) of protecting the public interest,

the Commission may give such directions as it considers appropriate
for that purpose.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (3) Before giving a direction under this section, the Commission
must —

(a) give written notice to the person to whom it proposes to
     give the direction; and

(b) give that person an opportunity to make representations.

 (4) A notice under subsection (3) must indicate the nature of the
direction which the Commission is proposing to give and its reasons
for wishing to give it.

 (5) A direction given under this section has effect while
subsection (1) or (2) (as the case may be) applies, but may be
replaced if the circumstances permit by a direction under section 69.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (6) In the case of a suspected infringement of the section 34
prohibition, sections 69(2)(a) and 85 also apply to directions given
under this section.

 (7) In the case of a suspected infringement of the section 47
prohibition, sections 69(2)(b) and 85 also apply to directions given
under this section.

 (8) In the case of a suspected infringement of the section 54
prohibition by an anticipated merger, if carried into effect, or a

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
67  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

merger, sections 69(2)(c)(i) and (d)(i) and 85 also apply to directions
given under this section.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

Decision of Commission upon completion of investigation

 68.—(1) Where —

       (a) after considering the statements made, or documents or
            articles produced, in the course of an investigation
            conducted by it under this Part; or

       (b) in the case of an investigation conducted by an inspector,
            after considering the report of the inspector,

the Commission proposes to make a decision that the section 34
prohibition has been infringed by any agreement, the section 47
prohibition has been infringed by any conduct, the section 54
prohibition will be infringed by any anticipated merger, if carried into
effect, or the section 54 prohibition has been infringed by any merger,
the Commission must —

       (c) give written notice to the person likely to be affected by
            such decision; and

       (d) give such person an opportunity to make representations to
            the Commission.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (2) Subject to subsections (3) and (5), upon considering any
representation made to the Commission under subsection (1)(d), the
Commission may, as it thinks fit, make a decision that —

       (a) the section 34 prohibition has been infringed by any
            agreement;

       (b) the section 47 prohibition has been infringed by any
            conduct;

       (c) the section 54 prohibition will be infringed by any
            anticipated merger, if carried into effect; or

       (d) the section 54 prohibition has been infringed by any
            merger.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.     Competition Act 2004                                   68

(3) Where —

(a) in relation to an anticipated merger, the Commission
     proposes to make a decision that the section 54 prohibition
     will be infringed by the anticipated merger, if carried into
     effect; or

(b) in relation to a merger, the Commission proposes to make a
     decision that the section 54 prohibition has been infringed
     by the merger,

and the Commission has given written notice under subsection (1)(c)
to the parties to the anticipated merger or the parties involved in the
merger (as the case may be) any such party may, within 14 days of the
date of the notice, apply to the Minister for the anticipated merger, if
carried into effect, or the merger to be exempted from the section 54
prohibition on the ground of any public interest consideration.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (4) The decision of the Minister under subsection (3) is final.

 (5) Where the Minister exempts an anticipated merger or a merger
under subsection (3), the Commission may make a decision that —

(a) the section 54 prohibition will not be infringed by the
     anticipated merger, if carried into effect; or

       (b) the section 54 prohibition has not been infringed by the
            merger.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (6) The Minister may revoke the exemption of an anticipated
merger or a merger granted under subsection (3) if the Minister has
reasonable grounds for suspecting that the information on which the
Minister based his or her decision was incomplete, false or
misleading in a material particular.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

Enforcement of decision of Commission
 69.—(1) Where the Commission has made a decision that —
       (a) any agreement has infringed the section 34 prohibition;
       (b) any conduct has infringed the section 47 prohibition;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
69  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    (c) any anticipated merger, if carried into effect, will infringe
        the section 54 prohibition; or

    (d) any merger has infringed the section 54 prohibition,

the Commission may give to such person as it thinks appropriate such
directions as it considers appropriate to bring the infringement or the
circumstances referred to in paragraph (c) to an end and, where
necessary, requiring that person to take such action as is specified in
the direction to remedy, mitigate or eliminate any adverse effects of
such infringement or circumstances and to prevent the recurrence of
such infringement or circumstances.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (2) A direction referred to in subsection (1) may, in particular,
include provisions —

    (a) where the decision is that any agreement has infringed the
         section 34 prohibition, requiring parties to the agreement to
         modify or terminate the agreement;

    (b) where the decision is that any conduct has infringed the
         section 47 prohibition, requiring the person concerned to
         modify or cease the conduct;

    (c) where the decision is that any anticipated merger, if carried
        into effect, will infringe the section 54 prohibition —

    (i) prohibiting the anticipated merger from being carried
        into effect;

    (ii) requiring any parties to any agreement that is directly
         related and necessary to the implementation of the
         merger (which would result from the anticipated
         merger being carried into effect) to modify or
         terminate the agreement, even though the
         agreement is excluded under paragraph 10 of the
         Third Schedule or the Commission has given
         guidance or a decision under section 45 or 46 (as
         the case may be) that the agreement is unlikely to
         infringe, or has not infringed, the section 34
         prohibition; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      70

          (iii) requiring any person concerned with any conduct
                that is directly related and necessary to the
                implementation of the merger (which would result
                from the anticipated merger being carried into effect)
                to modify or cease that conduct, even though the
                conduct is excluded under paragraph 10 of the
                Third Schedule or the Commission has given
                guidance or a decision under section 52 or 53 (as
                the case may be) that the conduct is unlikely to
                infringe, or has not infringed, the section 47
                prohibition;

(d) where the decision is that any merger has infringed the
     section 54 prohibition —

          (i) requiring the merger to be dissolved or modified in
              such manner as the Commission may direct;

          (ii) requiring any parties to any agreement that is directly
               related and necessary to the implementation of the
               merger to modify or terminate the agreement, even
               though the agreement is excluded under
               paragraph 10 of the Third Schedule or the
               Commission has given guidance or a decision
               under section 45 or 46 (as the case may be) that
               the agreement is unlikely to infringe, or has not
               infringed, the section 34 prohibition; and

          (iii) requiring any person concerned with any conduct
                that is directly related and necessary to the
                implementation of the merger to modify or cease
                that conduct, even though the conduct is excluded
                under paragraph 10 of the Third Schedule or the
                Commission has given guidance or a decision under
                section 52 or 53 (as the case may be) that the conduct
                is unlikely to infringe, or has not infringed, the
                section 47 prohibition;

          (e) where the decision is that any agreement has infringed the
              section 34 prohibition, any conduct has infringed the
              section 47 prohibition or any merger has infringed the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
71  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    section 54 prohibition, to pay to the Commission such
    financial penalty in respect of the infringement as the
    Commission may determine; and

    (f) in any case, requiring any party to an agreement that has
        infringed the section 34 prohibition, any person whose
        conduct has infringed the section 47 prohibition, any party
        to an anticipated merger which, if carried into effect, will
        infringe the section 54 prohibition or any party involved in
        a merger that has infringed the section 54 prohibition —

    (i) to enter such legally enforceable agreements as may
        be specified by the Commission and designed to
        prevent or lessen the anti-competitive effects which
        have arisen;

    (ii) to dispose of such operations, assets or shares of such
         undertaking in such manner as may be specified by
         the Commission; and

             (iii) to provide a performance bond, guarantee or other
                   form of security on such terms and conditions as the
                   Commission may determine.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (3) For the purpose of subsection (2)(e), the Commission may
impose a financial penalty only if it is satisfied that the infringement
has been committed intentionally or negligently.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (4) No financial penalty fixed by the Commission under this section
may exceed 10% or such other percentage of such turnover of the
business of the undertaking in Singapore for each year of
infringement for such period, up to a maximum of 3 years, as the
Minister may, by order in the Gazette, prescribe.

 (5) The Commission must, in any direction requiring the payment
of a financial penalty, specify the date before which the financial
penalty is to be paid, being a date not earlier than the end of the period
within which an appeal against the direction may be brought under
section 71.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      72

 (6) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, prescribe the interest
payable on the outstanding amount of any financial penalty imposed
under subsection (2)(e) and for payment by instalment (as may be
directed by the Commission in its discretion) of any financial penalty
imposed under subsection (2)(e).

                                                                                                             [4/2010]

Notification

 70. The Commission must, within 14 days of its making any
decision or direction under this Part, notify any person affected by
such decision or direction.

                                    PART 4

                                   APPEALS

                            Division 1 — General

Appealable decisions

 71.—(1) Any party to an agreement in respect of which the
Commission has made a decision, any person in respect of whose
conduct the Commission has made a decision, any party to an
anticipated merger in respect of which the Commission has made a
decision or any party involved in a merger in respect of which the
Commission has made a decision, may appeal within the prescribed
period to the Board against, or with respect to, that decision.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (2) Any person, other than a person referred to in subsection (1), to
whom the Commission has given a direction under section 58A, 67 or
69 may appeal within the prescribed period to the Board against, or
with respect to, that direction.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (3) Except in the case of an appeal against the imposition, or the
amount, of a financial penalty, the making of an appeal under this
section does not suspend the effect of the decision to which the appeal
relates.

 (4) In subsection (1), “decision” means a decision of the
Commission as to —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
73  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    (a) whether the section 34 prohibition has been infringed by
         any agreement;

    (b) whether the section 47 prohibition has been infringed by
         any conduct;

    (c) whether the section 54 prohibition will be infringed by any
        anticipated merger, if carried into effect; or

    (d) whether the section 54 prohibition has been infringed by
         any merger,

and includes a direction given under section 58A, 67 or 69 (including
the imposition of any financial penalty under section 69 or as to the
amount of any such financial penalty) and such other decision as the
Minister may by regulations prescribe.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

                Division 2 — Competition Appeal Board

Competition Appeal Board

 72.—(1) For the purpose of hearing any appeal referred to in
section 71(1), there is to be a Competition Appeal Board consisting of
not more than 30 members appointed, from time to time, by the
Minister on the basis of their ability and experience in industry,
commerce or administration or their professional qualifications or
their suitability otherwise for appointment.

 (2) Members of the Board hold office for such period as may be
determined by the Minister and are eligible for re‑appointment.

 (3) The Minister may at any time remove any member of the Board
from office without assigning any reason.

 (4) A member of the Board may resign his or her office by notice in
writing to the Minister.

 (5) The Minister must appoint to be Chairperson of the Board a
person who is qualified to be a Supreme Court Judge.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (6) The Chairperson of the Board, when present, presides at every
meeting of the Board, and in the Chairperson’s absence such member
of the Board as may be chosen by the members present presides.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      74

 (7) The Minister may appoint a secretary to the Board and such
other officers and employees of the Board as may be necessary.

 (8) All the powers, functions and duties of the Board may be
exercised, performed and discharged by any committee of the Board
consisting of not less than 3 members of the Board, one of whom may
be the Chairperson of the Board.

 (9) Any act, finding or decision of any such committee is deemed to
be the act, finding or decision of the Board.

 (10) The secretary must, from time to time, summon such members
of the Board as may be nominated by the Chairperson of the Board, to
constitute a committee of the Board for the purposes of giving effect
to the provisions of this Part, and it is the duty of such members to
attend at the times and places specified in the summons.

 (11) Subject to subsection (12), where the Chairperson of the Board
is nominated under subsection (10) as a member of a committee, he or
she presides at every meeting of the committee, and where the
Chairperson is not nominated as a member of a committee, the
Chairperson must determine which member of the committee is to
preside at every meeting of that committee.

 (12) Where the Chairperson of the Board or the member
determined by the Chairperson under subsection (11) (as the case
may be) is absent at any committee meeting, such member of the
committee as may be chosen by the members present presides.

 (13) All matters coming before the Board or a committee of the
Board at any sitting thereof must be decided by a majority of votes of
those members present and, in the event of an equality of votes, the
Chairperson of the Board or any other member presiding has a second
or casting vote.

 (14) Members of the Board may receive such remuneration and
such travelling and subsistence allowances as the Minister may
determine.

(15) The Minister may make regulations —

(a) prescribing the period within which appeals may be made;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
75  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    (b) prescribing the manner in which appeals are to be made to
         the Board;

    (c) prescribing the procedure to be adopted by the Board in
        hearing appeals and the records to be kept by the Board;

    (d) prescribing the places where and the times at which
         appeals are to be heard by the Board;

    (e) prescribing the fees to be paid in respect of any appeal
        under this Part;

    (f) permitting the Board to order interest to be paid on any
        financial penalty imposed, confirmed or varied by the
        Board;

    (g) prescribing the award of costs of or incidental to any
         proceedings before the Board or the award of expenses,
         including any allowances payable to persons in connection
         with their attendance before the Board; and

    (h) generally for the better carrying out of the provisions of
         this Part.

                                                                                                      [4/2010]

Powers and decisions of Board

 73.—(1) The Board must, by notice to the Commission and the
appellant, specify the date on and the place at which the appeal is to
be heard.

 (2) The Board has all the powers and duties of the Commission that
are necessary to perform its functions and discharge its duties under
this Act.

 (3) The Board has the powers, rights and privileges vested in a
District Court on the hearing of an action, including —

       (a) the enforcement of the attendance of witnesses and their
            examination on oath or otherwise;

       (b) the compelling of the production of documents; and

       (c) the award of such costs or expenses as may be prescribed
            under section 72(15).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      76

 (4) A summons signed by such member of the Board as may be
authorised by the Board is equivalent to any formal procedure
capable of being issued in an action for enforcing the attendance of
witnesses and compelling the production of documents.

 (5) Where any person being duly summoned to attend before the
Board does not so attend, that person shall be guilty of an offence.

 (6) A witness before the Board is entitled to the same immunities
and privileges as if he or she were a witness before a District Court.

 (7) All appeals under this section must be determined, having
regard to the nature and complexity of the appeal, as soon as
reasonably practicable.

 (8) The Board may confirm or set aside the decision which is the
subject of the appeal, or any part of it, and may —

(a) remit the matter to the Commission;

(b) impose or revoke, or vary the amount of, a financial
     penalty;

          (c) give such direction, or take such other step, as the
              Commission could itself have given or taken; or

(d) make any other decision which the Commission could
     itself have made.

 (9) Any decision of the Board on an appeal has the same effect, and
may be enforced in the same manner, as a decision of the
Commission.

 (10) If the Board confirms the decision which is the subject of the
appeal it may nevertheless set aside any finding of fact on which the
decision was based.

 (11) The Board must notify the appellant of its decision in respect
of the appellant’s appeal and the reasons for its decision.

Appeals to General Division of High Court, etc.

 74.—(1) An appeal against, or with respect to, a decision of the
Board made under section 73 shall lie to the General Division of the
High Court —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
77  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    (a) on a point of law arising from a decision of the Board; or

       (b) from any decision of the Board as to the amount of a
            financial penalty.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) An appeal under this section may be made only at the instance
of a person who was a party to the proceedings in which the decision
of the Board was made.

 (3) The General Division of the High Court shall hear and
determine any such appeal and may —

    (a) confirm, modify or reverse the decision of the Board; and

       (b) make such further or other order on such appeal, whether
            as to costs or otherwise, as the General Division of the
            High Court may think fit.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (4) There is such further right of appeal from decisions of the
General Division of the High Court under this section as exists in the
case of decisions made by the General Division of the High Court in
the exercise of its original civil jurisdiction.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

                                    PART 5

                                  OFFENCES

Refusal to provide information, etc.

 75.—(1) Any person who fails to comply with a requirement
imposed on the person under section 61A, 63, 64 or 65 shall be guilty
of an offence.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (2) If a person is charged with an offence under subsection (1) in
respect of a requirement to produce a document, it is a defence for the
person to prove that —

       (a) the document was not in the person’s possession or under
            the person’s control; and

       (b) it was not reasonably practicable for the person to comply
            with the requirement.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      78

 (3) If a person is charged with an offence under subsection (1) in
respect of a requirement —

(a) to provide information or answer any question posed to the
     person;

(b) to provide an explanation of a document; or

          (c) to state where a document is to be found,

it is a defence for the person to prove that the person had a reasonable
excuse for failing to comply with the requirement.

                                                                                                           [15/2018]

 (4) Failure to comply with a requirement imposed under
section 61A, 63 or 64 shall not be an offence if the person
imposing the requirement has failed to act in accordance with that
section.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

Destroying or falsifying documents

 76. Any person who, having been required to produce a document
under section 61A, 63, 64 or 65 —

(a) intentionally or recklessly destroys or otherwise disposes
     of it, falsifies it or conceals it; or

(b) causes or permits its destruction, disposal, falsification or
     concealment,

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                    [23/2007]

False or misleading information

 77.—(1) Any person who provides information to the Commission,
an investigating officer or an inspector or any person authorised,
appointed or employed to assist the Commission, investigating
officer or inspector, in connection with any function or duty of the
Commission, investigating officer or inspector under this Act shall be
guilty of an offence if —

       (a) the information is false or misleading in a material
            particular; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
79                  Competition Act 2004                      2020 Ed.

    (b) he or she knows that it is false or misleading in a material
         particular or is reckless as to whether it is.

(2) A person who —

    (a) provides an information to another person, knowing the
         information to be false or misleading in a material
         particular; or

    (b) recklessly provides any information to another person
         which is false or misleading in a material particular,

knowing that the information is to be used for the purpose of
providing information to the Commission, an investigating officer or
an inspector or any person authorised, appointed or employed to
assist the Commission, investigating officer or inspector, in
connection with any function or duty of the Commission,
investigating officer or inspector under this Act, shall be guilty of
an offence.

Obstruction of officer of Commission, etc.

 78. Any person who refuses to give access to, or assaults, hinders or
delays any member, officer, employee or agent of the Commission
authorised to act for or assist the Commission, or any inspector or
person assisting an inspector, in the discharge of his or her duties
under this Act shall be guilty of an offence.

No costs or damages or other relief arising from seizure to be
recoverable unless seizure without reasonable or probable
cause

 79. No person is, in any proceedings before any court in respect of
any equipment, article or document seized in the exercise or the
purported exercise of any power conferred under this Act, entitled to
the costs of the proceedings or to any damages or other relief other
than an order for the return of the equipment, article or document or
the payment of their value unless the seizure was made without
reasonable or probable cause.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      80

Powers of enforcement

 80.—(1) In addition to the powers conferred on him or her by this
Act or any other written law, an officer or employee of the
Commission may, in relation to any offence under this Act, on
declaration of his or her office and production to the person against
whom he or she is acting such identification card as the Chief
Executive may direct to be carried by officers or employees of the
Commission —

(a) require any person whom the officer or employee of the
     Commission reasonably believes to have committed that
     offence to furnish evidence of the person’s identity;

(b) require any person to furnish any information or produce
     any document or copy thereof in the possession of that
     person, and may, without fee or reward, inspect, make
     copies or extracts from such document; and

          (c) require, by written order, the attendance before the officer
              or employee of any person being within the limits of
              Singapore who, from the information given or otherwise
              obtained by the officer or employee, appears to be
              acquainted with the circumstances of the case.

(2) Any person who —

(a) wilfully misstates or without lawful excuse refuses to give
     any information or produce any document or copy thereof
     required of him or her by an officer or employee of the
     Commission under subsection (1); or

(b) fails to comply with a lawful demand of an officer or
     employee of the Commission in the discharge of his or her
     duties by such officer or employee under this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 81.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
81                     Competition Act 2004                   2020 Ed.

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         an officer; or

    (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         a partner; or

    (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
         its governing body; or

    (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s or
         member’s part,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(5) In this section —

    “officer” —

    (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
         member of the committee of management, chief
         executive, manager, secretary or other similar officer

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      82

          of the body corporate and includes any person
          purporting to act in any such capacity; or

          (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
               than a partnership), means the president, the
               secretary, or any member of the committee of the
               unincorporated association, or any person holding a
               position analogous to that of president, secretary or
               member of a committee and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (6) The Commission may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to provide for the application of any provision of this
section, with such modifications as may be appropriate, to any body
corporate or unincorporated association formed or recognised under
the law of a territory outside Singapore.

Jurisdiction of court

 82. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment for
any such offence.

General penalty

 83. Any person who is guilty of an offence under this Act for which
no penalty is expressly provided shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Composition of offences
 84.—(1) Any offence under —
       (a) this Act; or
       (b) any subsidiary legislation made under this Act,

may be compounded under this section if the offence is prescribed as
a compoundable offence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
83                Competition Act 2004                        2020 Ed.

 (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the Commission may, with
the approval of the Minister, make regulations —

    (a) to prescribe the offences under this Act or any subsidiary
         legislation made under this Act as offences that may be
         compounded under this section;

    (b) to designate the person who may compound such offences;
         and

    (c) to specify the maximum sum for which such offence may
        be compounded, except that the maximum sum so
        specified must not exceed the lower of the following:

    (i) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
        prescribed for the offence;

    (ii) $5,000.

 (3) The person designated under subsection (2)(b) may compound
any offence prescribed under subsection (2)(a) by collecting from a
person who is reasonably suspected of having committed the offence
a sum of money not exceeding the maximum sum that is specified
under subsection (2)(c) in respect of that offence.

                                    PART 6

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Enforcement of directions of Commission and commitments in
District Court

 85.—(1) For the purposes of enforcement of any direction made by
the Commission under section 58A, 67 or 69, or any commitment
accepted by the Commission under section 60A and which it has not
released, the Commission may apply for the direction or commitment
to be registered in a District Court in accordance with the Rules of
Court and the District Court is to register the direction or commitment
in accordance with the Rules of Court.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (2) From the date of registration of any direction or commitment
under subsection (1), the direction or commitment has the same force
and effect, and all proceedings may be taken on the direction or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      84

commitment, for the purposes of enforcement as if it had been an
order originally obtained in the District Court which has power to
enforce it accordingly.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (3) A District Court has jurisdiction to enforce any direction or
commitment in accordance with subsection (2) regardless of the
monetary amount involved and may, for the purpose of enforcing
such direction or commitment, make any order —

(a) to secure compliance with the direction or commitment; or

(b) to require any person to do anything to remedy, mitigate or
     eliminate any effects arising from —

          (i) anything done which ought not, under the direction
              or commitment, to have been done; or

          (ii) anything not done which ought, under the direction
               or commitment, to have been done,

       (b) which would not have occurred had the direction or
            commitment been complied with.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

 (4) Nothing in this section confers upon the District Court any
power to order the winding up of a company.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

Rights of private action

 86.—(1) Any person who suffers loss or damage directly as a result
of an infringement of the section 34 prohibition, the section 47
prohibition or the section 54 prohibition has a right of action for relief
in civil proceedings in a court under this section against any
undertaking which is or which has at the material time been a party to
such infringement.

 (2) No action to which subsection (1) applies may be brought —

       (a) until after a decision referred to in subsection (3) has
            established that the section 34 prohibition, the section 47
            prohibition or the section 54 prohibition has been
            infringed; and

       (b) during the period referred to in subsection (4).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
85  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

 (3) The decisions which may be relied upon for the purposes of an
action under this section are —

    (a) the Commission’s decision under section 68;

    (b) the Board’s decision under section 73 (on an appeal from
         the Commission’s decision under section 71);

    (c) the decision of the General Division of the High Court
        under section 74 (on an appeal from the Board’s decision
        under that section); and

       (d) the decision of the appellate court under section 74 (on an
            appeal from the decision of the General Division of the
            High Court under that section).

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (4) The periods during which an action may not be brought under
this section are —

    (a) in the case of a decision of the Commission, the period
         during which an appeal may be made to the Board under
         section 71(1);

    (b) in the case of a decision of the Commission which is the
         subject of an appeal to the Board as referred to in
         paragraph (a), the period following the decision of the
         Board during which a further appeal may be made under
         section 74 to the General Division of the High Court; and

       (c) in the case of a decision of the General Division of the
            High Court which is the subject of a further appeal, the
            period during which such an appeal may be made under
            section 74.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (5) Where any appeal referred to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of
subsection (4) is made, the period specified in that paragraph includes
the period before the appeal is determined.

 (6) No action to which subsection (1) applies may be brought after
the end of 2 years after the relevant period specified in subsection (4).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.      Competition Act 2004                                  86

 (7) In determining a claim under this section, the court shall accept
as final and conclusive any decision referred to in subsection (3)
which establishes that the prohibition in question has been infringed.

 (8) The court may grant to the claimant in an action under
subsection (1) all or any of the following reliefs:

(a) relief by way of injunction or declaration;

(b) damages;

       (c) such other relief as the court thinks fit.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (9) Nothing in this section confers on any party to an agreement
which infringes the section 34 prohibition a right of action for relief.

Cooperation between Commission and other regulatory
authorities on competition matters

 87.—(1) The Commission may enter into any agreement with any
regulatory authority for the purposes of —

       (a) facilitating cooperation between the Commission and the
            regulatory authority in the performance of their respective
            functions insofar as they relate to issues of competition
            between undertakings;

       (b) avoiding duplication of activities by the Commission and
            the regulatory authority, being activities involving the
            determination of the effects on competition of any act
            done, or proposed to be done; and

       (c) ensuring, as far as practicable, consistency between
            decisions made or other steps taken by the Commission
            and the regulatory authority insofar as any part of those
            decisions or steps consists of or relates to a determination
            of any issue of competition between undertakings.

 (2) An agreement that is entered into under subsection (1) is
referred to in this section as a cooperation agreement.

 (3) A cooperation agreement may include —

       (a) a provision enabling each party to furnish to another party
            information in its possession if the information is required

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
87                     Competition Act 2004                   2020 Ed.

    by that other party for the purpose of the performance by it
    of any of its functions;

    (b) a provision enabling each party to forbear to perform any
         of its functions in relation to a matter in circumstances
         where it is satisfied that another party is performing
         functions in relation to that matter; and

    (c) a provision requiring each party to consult with any other
        party before performing any function in circumstances
        where the respective exercise by each party of the function
        concerned involves the determination of issues of
        competition between undertakings that are identical to
        one another or fall within the same category of such an
        issue, being a category specified in the agreement.

(4) In this section —

    “issue of competition between undertakings” includes an issue
       of competition between undertakings that arises generally in
       the sector of activity in relation to which the Commission or
       the regulatory authority may exercise powers and such an
       issue that falls, or could fall, to be the subject of the exercise
       by the Commission or the regulatory authority of powers in
       particular circumstances;

    “party” means a party to a cooperation agreement and a
       reference to another party (whether that expression or the
       expression “other party” is used) is, where there are 2 or more
       other parties to the agreement, a reference to one or more of
       those other parties or each of them, as appropriate.

Cooperation between Commission and foreign competition
bodies

 88.—(1) The Commission may, with the approval of the Minister,
enter into arrangements with any foreign competition body whereby
each party to the arrangements may —

       (a) furnish to the other party information in its possession if
            the information is required by that other party for the
            purpose of performance by it of any of its functions; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      88

(b) provide such other assistance to the other party as will
     facilitate the performance by that other party of any of its
     functions.

 (2) The Commission must not furnish any information to a foreign
competition body pursuant to such arrangements unless it requires of,
and obtains from, that body an undertaking in writing by it that it will
comply with terms specified in that requirement, including terms that
correspond to the provisions of any other written law concerning the
disclosure of that information by the Commission.

 (3) The Commission may give an undertaking to a foreign
competition body that it will comply with terms specified in a
requirement made of the Commission by the body to give such an
undertaking where —

(a) those terms correspond to the provisions of any law in
     force in the country or territory in which the body is
     established, being provisions which concern the disclosure
     by the body of the information referred to in paragraph (b);
     and

(b) compliance with the requirement is a condition imposed by
     the body for furnishing information in its possession to the
     Commission pursuant to the arrangements referred to in
     subsection (1).

 (4) In this section, “foreign competition body” means a person in
whom there are vested functions under the law of another country or
territory with respect to the enforcement or the administration of
provisions of law of that country or territory concerning competition
between undertakings (whether in a particular sector of the economy
of that country or territory or throughout that economy generally).

Preservation of secrecy

 89.—(1) Subject to subsection (5), every specified person must
preserve, and aid in the preserving of, secrecy with regard to —

       (a) all matters relating to the business, commercial or official
            affairs of any person;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
89  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    (b) all matters that have been identified as confidential under
         subsection (3); and

    (c) all matters relating to the identity of persons furnishing
        information to the Commission,

that may come to his or her knowledge in the performance of his or
her functions and discharge of his or her duties under this Act and
must not communicate any such matter to any person, except in so far
as such communication —

    (d) is necessary for the performance of any such function or
         discharge of any such duty; or

       (e) is lawfully required by any court or the Board, or lawfully
            required or allowed under this Act or any other written law.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence.

 (3) Any person, when furnishing any information to the
Commission, may identify information that he or she claims to be
confidential information.

 (4) Every claim made under subsection (3) must be supported by a
written statement giving reasons why the information is confidential.

 (5) Despite subsection (1), the Commission may disclose any
information relating to any matter referred to in subsection (1) in any
of the following circumstances:

    (a) where the consent of the person to whom the information
         relates has been obtained;

    (b) for the purposes of —

    (i) a prosecution under this Act;

    (ii) subject to subsection (6), enabling the Commission
         to give effect to any provision of this Act;

    (iii) enabling the Commission, an investigating officer or
          an inspector to investigate a suspected offence under
          this Act or to enforce a provision thereof; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      90

          (iv) complying with such provision of an agreement
               between Singapore and a country or territory outside
               Singapore (called in this section a foreign country) as
               may be prescribed, where the conditions specified in
               subsection (7) are satisfied.

 (6) If the Commission is considering whether to disclose any
information under subsection (5)(b)(ii), the Commission must have
regard to —

(a) the need for excluding, so far as is practicable, information
     the disclosure of which would in its opinion be contrary to
     the public interest;

(b) the need for excluding, so far as is practicable —

          (i) commercial information the disclosure of which
              would, or might, in its opinion, significantly harm
              the legitimate business interests of the undertaking to
              which it relates; or

          (ii) information relating to the private affairs of an
               individual the disclosure of which would, or might,
               in its opinion, significantly harm the individual’s
               interest; and

          (c) the extent to which the disclosure is necessary for the
              purposes for which the Commission is proposing to make
              the disclosure.

(7) The conditions referred to in subsection (5)(b)(iv) are —

(a) the information or documents requested by the foreign
     country are available to the Commission;

(b) unless the Government otherwise allows, the foreign
     country undertakes to keep the information given
     confidential at all times; and

          (c) the disclosure of the information is not likely to be contrary
              to the public interest.

 (8) In this section, “specified person” means a person who is or has
been —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
91  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    (a) a member, an officer, an employee or an agent of the
         Commission;

    (b) a member of a committee of the Commission or any person
         authorised, appointed or employed to assist the
         Commission;

    (c) an inspector or a person authorised, appointed or employed
        to assist an inspector; or

    (d) a member of the Board or any person authorised, appointed
         or employed to assist the Board.

Protection from personal liability

 90. No liability shall lie personally against any of the following
persons for anything done or purported to be done, or omitted to be
done, in good faith and with reasonable care in the performance or
purported performance of any function of the Commission or the
exercise or purported exercise of any power of the Commission under
this Act or any other written law:

       (a) the Chief Executive;

       (b) any member, officer, employee, agent or committee
            member of the Commission;

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

       (c) any member of the Board or any person authorised,
            appointed or employed to assist the Board;

       (d) any person who is on secondment or attachment to the
            Commission;

       (e) any person authorised, appointed, employed or directed by
            the Commission to exercise the Commission’s powers,
            perform the Commission’s functions or discharge the
            Commission’s duties or to assist the Commission in the
            exercise of the Commission’s powers, the performance of
            the Commission’s functions or the discharge of the
            Commission’s duties;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      92

          (f) any inspector or any person authorised, appointed or
              employed to assist the inspector in connection with any
              function or duty of the inspector.

                                                                                                          [15/2018]

Public servants

 91. All inspectors and all members of the Board shall be deemed to
be public servants for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Proceedings conducted by officers of Commission

 91A.—(1) Proceedings in respect of an offence under this Act may,
with the authorisation of the Public Prosecutor, be conducted by an
officer of the Commission who is authorised in writing in that behalf
by the Chief Executive.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

 (2) Despite the provisions of any written law, a legal officer of the
Commission who has been admitted as an advocate and solicitor
under the Legal Profession Act 1966 may —

       (a) appear in any civil proceedings involving the Commission
            in the performance of its functions or duties under any
            written law; and

       (b) make and do all acts and applications in respect of the civil
            proceedings on behalf of the Commission.

Amendment of Third and Fourth Schedules

 92. The Minister may at any time, by order in the Gazette, amend
the Third and Fourth Schedules.

Regulations

 93.—(1) The Commission may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations for any purpose for which regulations are required
to be made under this Act and generally for carrying out the purposes
and provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Commission may, with the
approval of the Minister, make regulations for or with respect to all or
any of the following matters:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
93  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    (a) the manner of appointment, conduct and discipline and the
         terms and conditions of service of the employees of the
         Commission;

    (b) the establishment of funds for the payment of gratuities and
         other benefits to employees of the Commission;

    (c) the form and manner in which a notification under
        section 38(1) is to be made;

    (d) the form and manner in which complaints that the
         section 34 prohibition has been infringed by any
         agreement, the section 47 prohibition has been infringed
         by any conduct, the section 54 prohibition will be infringed
         by any anticipated merger, if carried into effect, or the
         section 54 prohibition has been infringed by any merger,
         are to be submitted to the Commission;

    (e) the acceptance of commitments, and the variation,
        substitution or release of commitments, including the
        parties that may apply for the variation, substitution or
        release of commitments and the form and manner in which
        applications for the variation, substitution or release of any
        commitment are to be submitted to the Commission;

    (f) the form and manner in which notices of decisions and
        directions of the Commission are to be given, and the
        persons to whom such notices are to be given;

    (g) the fees to be charged in respect of anything done or any
         services rendered by the Commission under or by virtue of
         this Act, including the calculation of the amount of fees by
         reference to matters including —

    (i) the turnover of all or any party to an agreement
        (determined in such manner as may be prescribed);

    (ii) the turnover of any person whose conduct the
         Commission is to consider (determined in such
         manner as may be prescribed);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      94

          (iii) the turnover of all or any party to an anticipated
                merger (determined in such manner as may be
                prescribed); and

          (iv) the turnover of all or any party involved in a merger
               (determined in such manner as may be prescribed);

      (h) anything which may be prescribed or is required to be
           prescribed under this Act.

                                                                                                         [23/2007]

94. [Repealed by Act 4 of 2021]

                                    PART 7

                   TRANSFER OF UNDERTAKINGS
           RELATING TO FAIR TRADING FUNCTIONS

                             TO COMMISSION

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

Interpretation of this Part

 95. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “asset”, in relation to the transferor, means property of any kind
         (whether tangible or intangible, whether arising from,
         accruing under, created or evidenced by or the subject of,
         an instrument or otherwise and whether actual or contingent)
         of the transferor on the eve of the transfer date and includes,
         without limitation, any —

              (a) legal or equitable interest in real or personal property,
                   whether situated in Singapore or elsewhere;

              (b) chose in action;

              (c) money or securities;

              (d) plant and equipment, whether situated in Singapore
                   or elsewhere;

              (e) intellectual property;

              (f) infrastructure, whether situated in Singapore or
                   elsewhere;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
95              Competition Act 2004                          2020 Ed.

    (g) records; and

    (h) right;

    “fair trading functions” means the following functions:

    (a) promoting fair trading among suppliers and
         consumers and enabling consumers to make
         informed purchasing decisions in Singapore;

    (b) preventing suppliers in Singapore from engaging in
         unfair trading practices;

    (c) advising the Government, any public authority or any
        consumer protection organisation on fair trading
        matters generally;

    (d) administering and enforcing the Consumer
         Protection (Fair Trading) Act 2003;

    “liability”, in relation to the transferor, means any liability, duty
       or obligation (whether actual or contingent, liquidated or
       unliquidated, and whether owed alone or jointly and severally
       with any other person) of the transferor on the eve of the
       transfer date;

    “records”, in relation to the transferor, means registers, papers,
       documents, minutes, receipts, books of account and other
       records, however compiled, recorded or stored, of the
       transferor existing on the eve of the transfer date;

    “right”, in relation to the transferor, means any right, power,
       privilege or immunity of the transferor on the eve of the
       transfer date;

    “transfer date” means 1 April 2018;

    “transferor” means the Standards, Productivity and Innovation
       Board established by the Standards, Productivity and
       Innovation Board Act (Cap. 303A, 2002 Revised Edition).

                                                              [10/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      96

Transfer of undertakings to Commission

 96.—(1) On the transfer date, all the assets and liabilities of the
transferor that relate solely or mainly to the fair trading functions are
transferred to the Commission.

                                                                                                           [10/2018]

 (2) When any asset or liability of the transferor is transferred under
subsection (1), the following provisions have effect:

(a) the asset that is the subject of the transfer vests in the
     Commission by virtue of this section and without the need
     for any further conveyance, transfer, assignment or
     assurance;

(b) the liability that is the subject of the transfer becomes by
     virtue of this section the liability of the Commission;

          (c) all legal or other proceedings relating to that asset or
              liability started before the transfer date by or against the
              transferor (or a predecessor of the transferor) and pending
              immediately before that date are taken to be proceedings
              pending by or against the Commission;

(d) any legal or other proceedings relating to that asset or
     liability which could have been started immediately before
     the transfer date by or against the transferor (or a
     predecessor of the transferor) may be started by or
     against the Commission;

          (e) a judgment or order of a court or other tribunal obtained
              before the transfer date by or against the transferor (or a
              predecessor of the transferor) relating to that asset or
              liability may be enforced by or against the Commission;

          (f) any document relating to legal or other proceedings
              relating to that asset or liability that has been served on
              or by the transferor (or a predecessor of the transferor)
              before the transfer date is taken, where appropriate, to have
              been served on or by the Commission;

(g) any act, matter or thing done or omitted to be done before
     the transfer date in relation to that asset or liability by, to or
     in respect of the transferor (or a predecessor of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
97  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

    transferor) is (to the extent to which that act, matter or
    thing has any force or effect) taken to have been done or
    omitted by, to or in respect of the Commission;

    (h) a reference to the transferor (or a predecessor of the
         transferor) in any written law, any instrument made under
         any Act, any contract, agreement, arrangement or
         undertaking, or any document of any kind, to the extent
         to which the reference relates to that asset or liability, is
         taken to be, or to include, a reference to the Commission;

      (i) any agreement relating to that asset or liability and to
           which the transferor (or a predecessor of the transferor) is a
           party becomes enforceable by or against the Commission.

                                                                                                         [10/2018]

(3) The operation of this section does not —

    (a) constitute a breach of, or default under, any Act or other
         law or otherwise a civil wrong or criminal wrong;

    (b) constitute a breach of duty of confidence (whether arising
         by contract, in equity, by custom, or in any other way);

    (c) constitute a breach of any contractual provision
        prohibiting, restricting or regulating the assignment or
        transfer of assets or liabilities or the disclosure of any
        information;

    (d) terminate an agreement or fulfil any condition that allows a
         person to terminate any agreement or obligation, or give
         rise to any right or remedy in respect of any agreement or
         obligation;

    (e) frustrate any contract or cause any contract or instrument to
        be void or otherwise unenforceable;

    (f) release any surety, other obligor or other obligee wholly or
        in part from any obligation; or

    (g) constitute an event of breach of, or default under, any
         contract or other instrument.

                                                                                                     [10/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      98

Transfer of employees to Commission

 97.—(1) On the transfer date, every employee of the transferor in
the Consumer Protection Weights & Measures Division who
performs solely or mainly the fair trading functions —

(a) stops being an employee of the transferor; and

       (b) is each transferred to the service, and becomes an
            employee, of the Commission on terms no less
            favourable than those enjoyed by the employee on the
            eve of the transfer date.

                                                                                                           [10/2018]

 (2) A certificate signed by the Minister certifying whether an
individual named in the certificate has been transferred to the service
of the Commission under subsection (1) is admissible in evidence in
any proceedings as proof of the matters stated in the certificate.

                                                                                                           [10/2018]

 (3) The transfer of an employee of the transferor to the Commission
under subsection (1) —

(a) does not interrupt continuity of the employee’s service;

(b) does not constitute a retrenchment or redundancy of the
     employee’s employment by the transferor; and

      (c) does not entitle the employee to any compensation or other
           payment or benefit merely because he or she stops being
           employed by the transferor.

                                                                                                         [10/2018]

(4) Nothing in this section prevents —

(a) any of the terms and conditions of employment of an
     individual transferred to the service of the Commission
     under subsection (1) from being altered by or under any
     law, award or agreement with effect from any time after the
     transfer date; and

(b) an individual transferred to the service of the Commission
     under subsection (1) from resigning from such service any
     time after the transfer date, in accordance with the terms
     and conditions of his or her employment then applicable.

                                                                                                 [10/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
99  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

 (5) To avoid doubt, section 18A of the Employment Act 1968 does
not apply to the transfer under this Part of any employee of the
transferor to the Commission.

                                                                                                           [10/2018]

General preservation of employment terms, etc.

 98.—(1) When an employee of the transferor is transferred to the
service of the Commission under section 97 (called in this section a
transferred employee), the transferred employee’s service with the
Commission must be regarded for all purposes as having been
continuous with his or her service with the transferor immediately
before the transfer date.

                                                                                                           [10/2018]

 (2) On the transfer date —

       (a) a transferred employee retains all accrued rights as if his or
            her employment with the Commission were a continuation
            of employment with the transferor;

       (b) the liabilities of the transferor relating to the transferred
            employee’s accrued rights to leave and superannuation
            become the liabilities of the Commission; and

       (c) a reference in the contract of employment that had effect in
            relation to the transferred employee immediately before
            the transfer date is taken to be, or includes, a reference to
            the Commission.

                                                                                                           [10/2018]

 (3) Until such time as the Commission draws up the terms and
conditions of employment for the transferred employee, the
Commission is to be regarded as employing the transferred
employee on the same terms and conditions of his or her
employment with the transferor on the eve of the transfer date.

                                                                                                           [10/2018]

 (4) Any term or condition of employment drawn up by the
Commission relating to the length of service of the transferred
employee with the Commission must recognise the length of service
of that employee with the transferor (including any previous service

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      100

that is taken to be service with the transferor) to be service with the
Commission.

                                                                                                           [10/2018]

 (5) For any conduct of the transferred employee when he or she was
employed by the transferor which would have rendered that
employee liable to be reprimanded, reduced in rank, retired,
dismissed or punished by the transferor, the Commission may —

(a) start any disciplinary proceedings against the employee;

(b) carry on and complete any disciplinary proceedings started
     by the transferor against that employee if those
     proceedings are pending on the eve of the transfer date; and

       (c) reprimand, reduce in rank, retire, dismiss or otherwise
            punish the employee as if the Commission were the
            transferor.

                                                                                                           [10/2018]

 (6) Where on the eve of the transfer date, any matter about the
conduct of the transferred employee during his or her employment
with the transferor concerned —

(a) was in the course of being heard or investigated by a
     committee of that transferor acting under due authority; or

(b) had been heard or investigated, but no order, ruling or
     direction had been made, by that committee,

that committee must complete the hearing or investigation and make
such order, ruling or direction as it could have made under the
authority vested in it before that date, and that order, ruling or
direction is to be regarded as an order, ruling or direction of the
Commission.

                                                                                                           [10/2018]

Transfer of records

 99. On the transfer date, the records of the transferor that relate
solely or mainly to the fair trading functions become the records of
the Commission.

                                                                                                           [10/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
101  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

Confirmation of transfers

100.—(1) If any dispute arises —

     (a) as to whether an asset or a liability, or an employee or a
          record, is transferred under section 96, 97 or 99; or

     (b) as to whether any, or part of any, contract or document
          relates to an asset or a liability, or an employee or a record,
          transferred under section 96, 97 or 99,

the Minister charged with the responsibility for finance may
determine the matter and must provide the concerned parties with
written notice of that determination.

                                                                                                           [10/2018]

 (2) The determination of the Minister charged with the
responsibility for finance under subsection (1) is final and binding
on the transferor and the Commission.

                                                                                                           [10/2018]

                                    PART 8

         TRANSFER OF UNDERTAKINGS RELATING TO
               PRODUCT SAFETY FUNCTIONS AND
                 LEGAL METROLOGY FUNCTIONS
                             TO COMMISSION

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

Interpretation of this Part

 101. In this Part —

      “asset”, in relation to the transferor, means property of any kind
         (whether tangible or intangible, whether arising from,
         accruing under, created or evidenced by or the subject of,
         an instrument or otherwise and whether actual or contingent)
         of the transferor on the eve of the transfer date and includes,
         without limitation, any —

              (a) legal or equitable interest in real or personal property,
                   whether situated in Singapore or elsewhere;

              (b) chose in action;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.              Competition Act 2004                          102

          (c) money or securities;

          (d) plant and equipment, whether situated in Singapore
               or elsewhere;

          (e) intellectual property;

          (f) infrastructure, whether situated in Singapore or
              elsewhere;

          (g) records; and

          (h) right;

“legal metrology functions” means the following functions:

          (a) promoting among suppliers in Singapore, and
               educating consumers on, legal metrology;

          (b) administering and enforcing the Weights and
               Measures Act 1975;

          (c) acting internationally as the national body
              representative of Singapore in respect of legal
              metrology;

          (d) advising the Government, any public authority or any
               consumer protection organisation on national needs
               and policies in respect of legal metrology;

“liability”, in relation to the transferor, means any liability, duty
   or obligation (whether actual or contingent, liquidated or
   unliquidated, and whether owed alone or jointly, or jointly
   and severally, with any other person) of the transferor on the
   eve of the transfer date;

“product safety functions” means the following functions:

          (a) promoting among suppliers in Singapore, and
               educating consumers on, the supply of safe
               consumer goods and the provision of relevant
               safety information about consumer goods;

          (b) preventing the supply of unsafe consumer goods in
               Singapore;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
103  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

     (c) acting internationally as the national body
         representative of Singapore in respect of promoting
         and enforcing —

     (i) the supply of safe consumer goods in
         Singapore; and

     (ii) the provision of relevant safety information
          about consumer goods;

     (d) advising the Government, any public authority or any
          consumer protection organisation on national needs
          and policies in respect of promoting and enforcing —

     (i) the supply of safe consumer goods in
         Singapore; and

     (ii) the provision of relevant safety information
          about consumer goods;

     “records”, in relation to the transferor, means registers, papers,
        documents, minutes, receipts, books of account and other
        records, however compiled, recorded or stored, of the
        transferor existing on the eve of the transfer date;

     “right”, in relation to the transferor, means any right, power,
        privilege or immunity of the transferor on the eve of the
        transfer date;

     “transfer date” means the date of commencement of section 7 of
        the Competition (Amendment) Act 2025;

     “transferor” means the Enterprise Singapore Board established
        by section 3 of the Enterprise Singapore Board Act 2018.

                           [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

Transfer of undertakings to Commission

 102.—(1) On the transfer date, all the assets and liabilities of the
transferor that relate solely or mainly to the product safety functions
or legal metrology functions, or both, are transferred to the
Commission.

 (2) When any asset or liability of the transferor is transferred under
subsection (1), the following provisions have effect:

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      104

(a) the asset that is the subject of the transfer vests in the
     Commission by virtue of this section and without the need
     for any further conveyance, transfer, assignment or
     assurance;

(b) the liability that is the subject of the transfer becomes by
     virtue of this section the liability of the Commission;

          (c) all legal or other proceedings relating to that asset or
              liability started before the transfer date by or against the
              transferor (or a predecessor of the transferor) and pending
              immediately before that date are taken to be proceedings
              pending by or against the Commission;

(d) any legal or other proceedings relating to that asset or
     liability which could have been started immediately before
     the transfer date by or against the transferor (or a
     predecessor of the transferor) may be started by or
     against the Commission;

          (e) a judgment or order of a court or other tribunal obtained
              before the transfer date by or against the transferor (or a
              predecessor of the transferor) relating to that asset or
              liability may be enforced by or against the Commission;

          (f) any document relating to legal or other proceedings
              relating to that asset or liability that has been served on
              or by the transferor (or a predecessor of the transferor)
              before the transfer date is taken, where appropriate, to have
              been served on or by the Commission;

(g) any act, matter or thing done or omitted to be done before
     the transfer date in relation to that asset or liability by, to or
     in respect of the transferor (or a predecessor of the
     transferor) is (to the extent to which that act, matter or
     thing has any force or effect) taken to have been done or
     omitted by, to or in respect of the Commission;

(h) a reference to the transferor (or a predecessor of the
     transferor) in any written law, any instrument made under
     any Act, any contract, agreement, arrangement or
     undertaking, or any document of any kind, to the extent

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
105  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

     to which the reference relates to that asset or liability, is
     taken to be, or to include, a reference to the Commission;

     (i) any agreement relating to that asset or liability and to
         which the transferor (or a predecessor of the transferor) is a
         party becomes enforceable by or against the Commission.

(3) The operation of this section does not —

     (a) constitute a breach of, or default under, any Act or other
          law, or otherwise a civil wrong or criminal wrong;

     (b) constitute a breach of duty of confidence (whether arising
          by contract, in equity, by custom, or in any other way);

     (c) constitute a breach of any contractual provision
         prohibiting, restricting or regulating the assignment or
         transfer of assets or liabilities or the disclosure of any
         information;

     (d) terminate any agreement or obligation, or fulfil any
          condition that allows a person to terminate any
          agreement or obligation, or give rise to any right or
          remedy in respect of any agreement or obligation;

     (e) frustrate any contract or cause any contract or instrument to
         be void or otherwise unenforceable;

     (f) release any surety, other obligor or other obligee wholly or
         in part from any obligation; or

     (g) constitute an event of breach of, or default under, any
          contract or other instrument.

                                                                         [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

Transfer of records

 103. On the transfer date, the records of the transferor that relate
solely or mainly to the product safety functions or legal metrology
functions, or both, become the records of the Commission.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      106

Confirmation of transfers

104.—(1) If any dispute arises —

(a) as to whether an asset or a liability, or a record, is
     transferred under section 102 or 103; or

(b) as to whether any, or part of any, contract or document
     relates to an asset, a liability or a record transferred under
     section 102 or 103,

the Minister charged with the responsibility for finance may
determine the matter and must provide the concerned parties with
written notice of that determination.

 (2) The determination of the Minister charged with the
responsibility for finance under subsection (1) is final and binding
on the transferor and the Commission.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

                             FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 5(2)

          CONSTITUTION AND PROCEEDINGS OF COMMISSION

Appointment of Chairperson and members

 1.—(1) The Chairperson and other members of the Commission shall be
appointed by the Minister.

 (2) The Minister may appoint the Chief Executive as a member.

 (3) The persons to be appointed under this paragraph must be chosen for their
ability and experience in industry, commerce or administration or their
professional qualifications or their suitability otherwise for appointment.

Appointment of Deputy Chairperson

 2.—(1) The Minister may appoint any member of the Commission to be the
Deputy Chairperson of the Commission.

 (2) The Deputy Chairperson so appointed may, subject to such direction as may
be given by the Chairperson, exercise all or any of the powers exercisable by the
Chairperson under this Act.

 (3) If for any reason the Chairperson is unable to act or the office of the
Chairperson is vacant, the Deputy Chairperson may exercise all or any of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
107  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

     FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

powers conferred, or discharge all or any of the duties imposed on the
Chairperson, under this Act.

Tenure of office of members of Commission

 3. A member of the Commission holds office on such conditions and for such
term of not less than 3 years and not more than 5 years as the Minister may
determine, and is eligible for re‑appointment.

Temporary Chairperson, Deputy Chairperson or member

 4. The Minister may appoint any person to be a temporary Chairperson, Deputy
Chairperson or member during the temporary incapacity from illness or otherwise,
or during the temporary absence from Singapore, of the Chairperson, Deputy
Chairperson or any member, as the case may be.

Revocation of appointment

 5. The Minister may, at any time, revoke the appointment of the Chairperson,
Deputy Chairperson or any member if the Minister considers such revocation
necessary in the interest of the effective and economical performance of the
functions of the Commission under this Act or in the public interest.

Resignation from office

 6. A member may resign from his or her office at any time by giving not less
than one month’s notice to the Minister.

Chairperson may delegate function

 7. The Chairperson may, in writing, authorise any member of the Commission to
exercise any power or perform any function conferred on the Chairperson under
this Act.

Vacation of office

 8. The office of a member becomes vacant if the member —

        (a) dies;

        (b) fails to attend 3 consecutive meetings of the Commission without
             sufficient cause (the sufficiency of which is to be decided by the
             Commission);

        (c) becomes in any manner disqualified from membership of the
             Commission;

        (d) resigns his or her office; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      108

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

(e) has his or her appointment revoked.

Filling of vacancies

 9. If a vacancy occurs in the membership of the Commission, the Minister may,
subject to paragraph 1, appoint any person to fill the vacancy, and the person so
appointed shall hold office for the remainder of the term for which the vacating
member was appointed.

Disqualification from membership

 10. A person must not be appointed or continue to hold office as a member if the
person —

        (a) is an undischarged bankrupt or has made any arrangement with his or
             her creditors;

        (b) has been sentenced to imprisonment for a term exceeding 6 months
             and has not received a free pardon;

        (c) is incapacitated by physical or mental illness; or

        (d) is otherwise unable or unfit to discharge the functions of a member.
 11. [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]

Sealing of documents

 12.—(1) All deeds and other documents requiring the seal of the Commission
must be sealed with the common seal of the Commission in the presence of any
2 officers of the Commission duly authorised by the Commission to act in that
behalf and must be signed by those officers.

 (2) Such signing is sufficient evidence that the common seal of the Commission
has been duly and properly affixed and that the seal is the lawful common seal of
the Commission.

 (3) The Commission may by resolution or otherwise appoint an officer or
employee of the Commission or any other agent, either generally or in a particular
case, to execute or sign on behalf of the Commission any agreement or other
instrument not under seal in relation to any matter coming within the powers of the
Commission.

 (4) Section 11 of the Registration of Deeds Act 1988 does not apply to any
instrument purporting to have been executed under sub‑paragraph (1).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
109  Competition Act 2004                                           2020 Ed.

     FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Salaries, fees and allowances payable to members of Commission

 13. There are to be paid to the members of the Commission, out of the funds of
the Commission, such salaries, fees and allowances as the Minister may
determine.

Quorum

 14.—(1) At every meeting of the Commission, one‑half of the number of
members constitutes a quorum.

 (2) The Chairperson, or in his or her absence the Deputy Chairperson, presides
at meetings of the Commission, and if both the Chairperson and Deputy
Chairperson are absent from any meeting or part thereof, such member as the
members present may elect presides at that meeting or part thereof.

 (3) A decision at a meeting of the Commission is to be adopted by a simple
majority of the members present and voting except that, in the case of an equality
of votes, the Chairperson or any other member presiding has a casting vote in
addition to his or her original vote.

 (4) Where not less than 4 members of the Commission request the Chairperson
by written notice signed by them to convene a meeting of the Commission for any
purpose specified in the notice, the Chairperson must, within 7 days from the
receipt of the notice, convene a meeting for that purpose.

Vacancies
 15. The Commission may act despite any vacancy in its membership.

Procedure at meetings

 16.—(1) The Chairperson or any other officer authorised by the Chairperson
must, subject to such standing orders as may be made by the Commission under
sub‑paragraph (2), summon all meetings of the Commission for the despatch of
business.

 (2) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, the Commission may make standing orders to regulate its own
procedure generally and, in particular, regarding the holding of meetings, the
notice to be given of the meetings, the proceedings at the meetings, the keeping of
minutes, the custody, production and inspection of the minutes, and the opening,
keeping, closing and auditing of accounts.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      110

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Validity of act or proceeding

17. No act or proceeding of the Commission is to be questioned on the ground —

(a) of any vacancy in, or defect in the constitution of, the Commission;

(b) of any defect in the appointment of any person acting as the
     Chairperson or as a member; or

(c) of any omission, defect or irregularity in the procedure of the
    Commission not affecting the merits of the case.

                                                                                                  [5/2018]

                           SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 7(1)

                              POWERS OF COMMISSION

 1. To conduct such investigations as may be necessary for enforcing this Act.

 2. To require any person to furnish such returns and information as may be
necessary for implementing the provisions of this Act.

 3. To issue or make arrangements for approving codes of practice relating to
competition and to give approval to or withdraw approval from such codes of
practice.

 4. To publish educational materials or carry out other educational activities
relating to competition; or to support (financially or otherwise) the carrying out by
others of such activities or the provision by others of information or advice.

 5. To carry out research and studies and to conduct seminars, workshops and
symposia relating to competition, or to support (financially or otherwise) the
carrying out by others of such activities.

 5A. To designate or recognise any person that performs conformity assessment,
testing or certification, relating to the product safety of consumer goods, and to
regulate such persons.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 5B. To perform any conformity assessment or testing relating to the product
safety of consumer goods.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 6. With the Minister’s approval, to form or participate in the formation of any
company, partnership or joint venture as a shareholder or partner or in any
capacity.

 7. To enter into such contracts as may be necessary or expedient for the purpose
of performing its functions or discharging its duties.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
111  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

 7A. To enter into memoranda of understanding or other similar arrangements
with any person in or outside Singapore for the purpose of performing its functions
or discharging its duties.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 7B. Without affecting section 9, to appoint any person or committee (from
among the members of the Commission or persons who are not members) to
advise the Commission on matters relating to the Commission’s functions and
powers that are referred to that person or committee by the Commission.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 8. To become a member or an affiliate of any international body, the functions,
objects or duties of which are similar to those of the Commission.

 9. To acquire and hold property, both movable and immovable, and to sell, lease,
mortgage or otherwise dispose of the property.

 10. To grant loans to officers or employees of the Commission for such purposes
specifically approved by the Commission as are likely to increase the efficiency of
the officers or employees.

 11. To grant or guarantee loans to any officer or employee of the Commission
for the purchase of a house, land or a flat or for the renovation of a house or a flat
for the use or occupation of the officer or employee and his or her family (if any).

 12. To make provision for gratuities, pensions, allowances or other benefits for
employees or former employees of the Commission or its predecessors.

 13. To make provision for the specialised training of any employee of the
Commission and, in that connection, to offer scholarships to intending trainees or
otherwise pay for the cost of the training and all expenditure incidental thereto.

 14. To offer bursaries and scholarships for study at any school or institution of
higher learning to members of the public and officers or employees of the
Commission and members of their families.

 15. To do anything incidental to any of its functions under this Act or any other
written law.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      112

          THIRD SCHEDULE

                                                                              Sections 35, 48, 69(2) and 92 and
                                                                                 paragraph 2 of Fourth Schedule

   EXCLUSIONS FROM SECTION 34 PROHIBITION AND SECTION 47
                                       PROHIBITION

Services of general economic interest, etc.

 1. Neither the section 34 prohibition nor the section 47 prohibition applies to any
undertaking entrusted with the operation of services of general economic interest
or having the character of a revenue‑producing monopoly insofar as the
prohibition would obstruct the performance, in law or in fact, of the particular
tasks assigned to that undertaking.

Compliance with legal requirements

 2.—(1) The section 34 prohibition does not apply to an agreement to the extent
to which it is made in order to comply with a legal requirement.

 (2) The section 47 prohibition does not apply to conduct to the extent to which it
is engaged in order to comply with a legal requirement.

 (3) In this paragraph, “legal requirement” means any requirement imposed by or
under any written law.

Avoidance of conflict with international obligations

 3.—(1) If the Minister is satisfied that, in order to avoid a conflict between the
provisions of Part 3 and an international obligation of Singapore, it would be
appropriate for the section 34 prohibition not to apply to —

        (a) a particular agreement; or

        (b) any agreement of a particular description,

the Minister may by order exclude the agreement, or agreements of that
description, from the section 34 prohibition.

 (2) An order under sub‑paragraph (1) may make provision for the exclusion of
the agreement or agreements to which the order applies, or of such of them as may
be specified, only in specified circumstances.

 (3) An order under sub‑paragraph (1) may also provide that the section 34
prohibition is to be deemed never to have applied in relation to the agreement or
agreements, or in relation to such of them as may be specified.

 (4) If the Minister is satisfied that, in order to avoid a conflict between the
provisions of Part 3 and an international obligation of Singapore, it would be
appropriate for the section 47 prohibition not to apply in particular circumstances,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
113  Competition Act 2004                                         2020 Ed.

     THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

the Minister may by order provide for it not to apply in such circumstances as may
be specified.

 (5) An order under sub‑paragraph (4) may provide that the section 47
prohibition is to be deemed never to have applied in relation to specified conduct.

 (6) An international arrangement relating to civil aviation and designated by an
order made by the Minister is to be treated as an international obligation for the
purposes of this paragraph.

(7) In this paragraph, “specified” means specified in the order.

Public policy

 4.—(1) If the Minister is satisfied that there are exceptional and compelling
reasons of public policy why the section 34 prohibition ought not to apply to —

        (a) a particular agreement; or

        (b) any agreement of a particular description,

the Minister may by order exclude the agreement, or agreements of that
description, from the section 34 prohibition.

 (2) An order under sub‑paragraph (1) may make provision for the exclusion of
the agreement or agreements to which the order applies, or of such of them as may
be specified, only in specified circumstances.

 (3) An order under sub‑paragraph (1) may also provide that the section 34
prohibition is to be deemed never to have applied in relation to the agreement or
agreements, or in relation to such of them as may be specified.

 (4) If the Minister is satisfied that there are exceptional and compelling reasons
of public policy why the section 47 prohibition ought not to apply in particular
circumstances, the Minister may by order provide for it not to apply in such
circumstances as may be specified.

 (5) An order under sub‑paragraph (4) may provide that the section 47
prohibition is to be deemed never to have applied in relation to specified conduct.

 (6) In this paragraph, “specified” means specified in the order.

Goods and services regulated by other competition law

 5. The section 34 prohibition and the section 47 prohibition do not apply to any
agreement or conduct which relates to any goods or services to the extent to which
any other written law, or code of practice issued under any written law, relating to
competition gives another regulatory authority jurisdiction in the matter.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.              Competition Act 2004                          114

                      THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

Specified activities

 6.—(1) The section 34 prohibition and the section 47 prohibition do not apply to
any agreement or conduct which relates to any specified activity.

(2) In this paragraph, “specified activity” means —

(a) the supply of ordinary letter and postcard services by a person licensed
     and regulated under the Postal Services Act 1999;

(b) the supply of piped potable water;

(c) the supply of wastewater management services, including the
    collection, treatment and disposal of wastewater;

(d) the supply of bus services by a licensed bus operator under the Bus
     Services Industry Act 2015;

(e) the supply of rail services by any person licensed and regulated under
    the Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995; and

          (f) cargo terminal operations carried out by a person licensed and
              regulated under the Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore
              Act 1996.

Clearing houses

 7. The section 34 prohibition and the section 47 prohibition do not apply to any
agreement or conduct which relates to —

        (a) the clearing and exchanging of articles undertaken by the Automated
             Clearing House established under the Banking (Clearing House)
             Regulations; or

        (b) any activity of the Singapore Clearing Houses Association in relation
             to its activities regarding the Automated Clearing House.

Vertical agreements

 8.—(1) The section 34 prohibition does not apply to any vertical agreement,
other than such vertical agreement as the Minister may by order specify.

 (2) In this paragraph, “vertical agreement” means any agreement entered into
between 2 or more undertakings each of which operates, for the purposes of the
agreement, at a different level of the production or distribution chain, and relating
to the conditions under which the parties may purchase, sell or resell certain goods
or services and includes provisions contained in such agreements which relate to
the assignment to the buyer or use by the buyer of intellectual property rights,
provided that those provisions do not constitute the primary object of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
115  Competition Act 2004                                      2020 Ed.

     THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

agreement and are directly related to the use, sale or resale of goods or services by
the buyer or its customers.

Agreements with net economic benefit

 9. The section 34 prohibition does not apply to any agreement which contributes
to —

        (a) improving production or distribution; or

        (b) promoting technical or economic progress,

but which does not —

        (c) impose on the undertakings concerned restrictions which are not
             indispensable to the attainment of those objectives; or

        (d) afford the undertakings concerned the possibility of eliminating
             competition in respect of a substantial part of the goods or services
             in question.

Provisions directly related and necessary to implementation of mergers

 10. The section 34 prohibition and the section 47 prohibition do not apply to any
agreement or conduct that is directly related and necessary to the implementation
of a merger.

Mergers

 11.—(1) The section 34 prohibition does not apply to any agreement (either on
its own or when taken together with another agreement) to the extent that it results,
or if carried out would result, in a merger.

 (2) The section 47 prohibition does not apply to any conduct (either on its own
or when taken together with other conduct) to the extent that it results in a merger.

                                                                                                [23/2007; 30/2015]

                         FOURTH SCHEDULE

                                                                                              Sections 55 and 92

              EXCLUSIONS FROM SECTION 54 PROHIBITION

1. The section 54 prohibition does not apply to any merger —

       (a) approved by any Minister or regulatory authority (other than the
            Commission) pursuant to any requirement for such approval imposed
            by any written law (other than section 19 of the Significant
            Investments Review Act 2024);

                                                                                   [S 18/2026 wef 19/01/2026]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
2020 Ed.  Competition Act 2004                                      116

          FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

(b) approved by the Monetary Authority of Singapore established under
     section 3 of the Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970 pursuant to
     any requirement for such approval imposed under any written law; or

(c) under the jurisdiction of any regulatory authority (other than the
    Commission) under any written law relating to competition, or code of
    practice relating to competition issued under any written law.

 2. The section 54 prohibition does not apply to any merger involving any
undertaking relating to any specified activity as defined in paragraph 6(2) of the
Third Schedule.

 3. The section 54 prohibition does not apply to any merger if the economic
efficiencies arising or that may arise from the merger outweigh the adverse effects
due to the substantial lessening of competition in the relevant market in Singapore.

                                                                                                           [23/2007]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
                LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                COMPETITION ACT 2004

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 46 of 2004 — Competition Act 2004

Bill                  : 44/2004

First Reading         : 21 September 2004

Second and Third Readings : 19 October 2004

Commencement          : 1 January 2005 (Parts I and II and the
                            First and Second Schedules)
                            1 September 2005 (Part IV)
                            1 January 2006 (Divisions 1, 2, 3 and 5
                            of Part III and Parts V and VI and the
                            Third Schedule)

2. Act 40 of 2005 — Competition (Amendment) Act 2005

Bill                  : 32/2005

First Reading         : 17 October 2005

Second and Third Readings : 21 November 2005

Commencement          : 1 January 2006

3. G.N. No. S 870/2005 — Competition Act (Amendment of Third Schedule)
                                 Order 2005

Commencement          : 1 January 2006

4. Act 23 of 2007 — Competition (Amendment) Act 2007

Bill                  : 11/2007

First Reading         : 9 April 2007

Second Reading        : 21 May 2007

Notice of Amendments  : 21 May 2007

Third Reading         : 21 May 2007

Commencement          : 1 January 2006 (section 23)
                            30 June 2007 (sections 8(1) and 24(1))
                            1 July 2007 (except sections 8(1), 23
                            and 24(1))

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
                      ii

5. 2006 Revised Edition — Competition Act (Chapter 50B)

Operation             : 31 January 2006

6. Act 4 of 2010 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2010
   (Amendments made by section 12 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 26/2009

First Reading         : 23 November 2009

Second and Third Readings : 12 January 2010

Commencement          : 17 February 2010 (section 12)

7. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
   (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 23 of the Sixth Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill                  : 11/2010

First Reading         : 26 April 2010

Second Reading        : 18 May 2010

Third Reading         : 19 May 2010

Commencement          : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                            item 23 of the Sixth Schedule)

8. Act 30 of 2015 — Bus Services Industry Act 2015
   (Amendments made by section 50 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 26/2015

First Reading         : 13 July 2015

Second and Third Readings : 18 August 2015

Commencement          : 22 January 2016 (section 50)

9. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
   (Amendments made by section 56 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2017

First Reading         : 6 November 2017

Second Reading        : 8 January 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 8 January 2018

Third Reading         : 8 January 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 56)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
                      iii

10. Act 10 of 2018 — Enterprise Singapore Board Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 68 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 3/2018

First Reading         : 8 January 2018

Second and Third Readings : 5 February 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 68)

11. Act 15 of 2018 — Competition (Amendment) Act 2018

Bill                  : 8/2018

First Reading         : 27 February 2018

Second and Third Readings : 19 March 2018

Commencement          : 16 May 2018

12. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 26 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 26 of the Schedule)

13. Act 4 of 2021 — Statute Law Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 15(2) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2020

First Reading         : 3 November 2020

Second and Third Readings : 5 January 2021

Commencement          : 1 March 2021 (section 15(2))

14. 2020 Revised Edition — Competition Act 2004

Operation             : 31 December 2021

15. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 101 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 18/2021

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
                      iv

First Reading         : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement          : 1 April 2022

16. Act 13 of 2025 — Competition (Amendment) Act 2025
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 5/2025

First Reading         : 5 March 2025

Second and Third Readings : 8 April 2025

Commencement          : 1 July 2025

17. G.N. No. S 18/2026 — Competition Act 2004 (Amendment of Fourth
                                   Schedule) Order 2026

Date of commencement  : 19 January 2026

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
          COMPARATIVE TABLE
         COMPETITION ACT 2004

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.                    2006 Ed.
                   9—(4) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
—                  21—(1) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
—
—                     (2) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
—                     (3) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
—                     (4) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
—                     (5) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
21                    (6)
60A—(2)            60A—(1A)
                      (1B)
   (3)                (2)
   (4)                (3)
   (5)                (4)
   (6)                (5)
   (7)             60B—(1A)
60B—(2)               (1B)
   (3)                (2)
   (4)                (3)
   (5)                (4)
   (6)             63—(4A)
63—(5)                (4B)
   (6)                (5)
   (7)             67—(1A)
67—(2)                (2)
   (3)                (3)
   (4)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
                  ii

        2020 Ed.           2006 Ed.

   (5)               (4)
   (6)               (5)
   (7)               (6)
   (8)               (7)
71—(2)            71—(1A)
   (3)               (2)
   (4)               (3)

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 19/1/2026
