         SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT
                            AGENCY ACT 2026

                               (No. 17 of 2026)

                           ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                                            PART 1
                                      PRELIMINARY
Section
     1. Short title and commencement
     2. Interpretation

                                            PART 2
                       ESTABLISHMENT, FUNCTIONS AND

                                 POWERS OF AGENCY
     3. Skills and Workforce Development Agency
     4. Agency is body corporate
     5. Functions of Agency
     6. Powers of Agency
     7. Directions of Minister, etc.
     8. Agency’s symbol, etc.

                                            PART 3
              CONSTITUTION AND MEMBERSHIP OF AGENCY

                 Division 1 — Appointment, resignation and removal
     9. Membership of Agency
   10. Appointment of Agency members
   11. Membership disqualification
   12. Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson
   13. Premature vacancies
   14. Acting Chairperson and members
   15. Removal of member
   16. Resignation from office
   17. Validity of acts, etc.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2        NO. 17 OF 2026

Section        Division 2 — Terms and conditions for members

   18.   Term of appointment
   19.   Remuneration, etc.
   20.   Vacation of office
   21.   Other terms and conditions

                                           PART 4

                         DECISION‑MAKING BY AGENCY

                                  Division 1 — Meetings

   22. Procedure generally
   23. Notice of meetings
   24. Quorum
   25. Presiding at meetings
   26. Voting at meetings
   27. Execution of documents

                       Division 2 — Committees and delegation

   28. Appointment of committees
   29. Proceedings of committees
   30. Ability to delegate
   31. Validity of delegate’s acts, etc.

                                           PART 5

                                PERSONNEL MATTERS

   32. Appointment of Chief Executive
   33. Officers, etc.
   34. Delegates, subdelegates and authorised persons deemed to be

            public servants or public officers
   35. Preservation of secrecy
   36. Protection from personal liability

                                           PART 6

                               FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

   37. Financial year
   38. Revenue and property of Agency
   39. Bank accounts
   40. Power of investment

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
         SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

         AGENCY                                                     3

Section  Issue of shares, etc.
         Borrowing power
   41.   Estimates for Skills Development Fund
   42.   Skills Development Fund to be audited separately
   43.
   44.

                                        PART 7

                 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

        Division 1 — Preliminary matters, appointments and powers

45. Meanings of “incentive”, “grant” and “loan” from Agency
46. Appointment of authorised persons and inspectors
47. Powers to verify information collected or for grants, etc.
48. Powers of inspectors

                 Division 2 — Offences and related provisions

49. Abusive funding arrangement
50. Entering into or facilitation of abusive funding arrangement
51. Recovery by Agency of wrongly obtained funding
52. False or misleading advertisements
53. Remedial measures for false or misleading advertisements
54. Refund by funding recipient for cancelled course or

         programme, etc.
55. Appeal to Minister against directions under sections 53 and 54
56. Decision of Minister on appeal
57. Designate may hear appeal in place of Minister
58. False or misleading information, statement or document, etc.
59. Penalty for obstructing member, officer, etc.

                                        PART 8

                                      GENERAL

60. Composition of offences
61. Offences by corporations
62. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
63. Jurisdiction of courts
64. Service of documents
65. Regulations
66. Codes of practice and guidelines

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
4        NO. 17 OF 2026

         PART 9

         TRANSFER OF UNDERTAKINGS AND
                 PERSONNEL TO AGENCY

Section  Interpretation of this Part
         Transfer of undertakings to Agency
   67.   Transfer of employees, etc., to Agency
   68.   General preservation of employment terms, etc.
   69.   Transfer of records
   70.   Confirmation of transfers
   71.
   72.

                                          PART 10
                                          REPEAL

   73. Repeal of SkillsFuture Singapore Agency Act 2016
   74. Repeal of Workforce Singapore Agency Act 2003

                                           PART 11

             CONSEQUENTIAL AND RELATED AMENDMENTS
                                    TO OTHER ACTS

   75. Consequential amendment to Enterprise Singapore Board
            Act 2018

   76. Consequential amendments to Income Tax Act 1947
   77. Consequential amendment to Institute of Technical Education

            Act 1992
   78. Consequential and related amendments to Private Education

            Act 2009
   79. Consequential amendments to Skills Development Levy

            Act 1979
   80. Consequential amendments to other Acts

                                          PART 12

                  SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

   81. Saving and transitional provisions arising from repeal of
            SkillsFuture Singapore Agency Act 2016

   82. Saving and transitional provisions arising from repeal of
            Workforce Singapore Agency Act 2003

   83. Other saving and transitional provisions

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                            5

An Act to establish the Skills and Workforce Development Agency,
  to repeal the SkillsFuture Singapore Agency Act 2016 and the
  Workforce Singapore Agency Act 2003, and to make consequential
  and related amendments to certain other Acts.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
6  NO. 17 OF 2026

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the Skills and Workforce Development Agency
Act 2026 and comes into operation on a date that the Minister
appoints by notification in the Gazette.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act —

      “Agency” means the Skills and Workforce Development
         Agency established by section 3;

      “authorised person” means an authorised person appointed by
         the Agency under section 46(1);

      “career, employment and training matters” means matters
         relating to supporting individuals and employers in their
         career and workforce needs, including career planning,
         training, general learning and skills development, job
         search, job mobility, recruitment, workforce planning, job
         redesign, retraining and talent development;

      “Chairperson” means the member of the Agency who is
         appointed under section 12(1)(a) as the Chairperson of the
         Agency, and includes any individual appointed under
         section 14(1) to act in that capacity;

      “Chief Executive” means the Chief Executive of the Agency
         appointed under section 32, and includes any individual
         acting in that capacity;

      “commerce or industry” includes any trade, manufacturing or
         service industry, business or other economic activity;

      “committee” means a committee of the Agency appointed under
         section 28;

      “committee member” means an individual appointed to be a
         member of a committee under section 28;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   7

“company” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“delegate” means a person to whom the Agency under
   section 30(1) delegates any of its functions or powers;

“Deputy Chairperson” means a member of the Agency who is
   appointed under section 12(1)(b) as a Deputy Chairperson of
   the Agency;

“document” means any thing (in whatever form) in which
   information or material of any description is recorded or
   stored, and includes any tape, disk or other storage device or
   medium;

“Finance Minister” means the Minister charged with the
   responsibility for finance;

“functions”, in relation to the Agency, means functions
   conferred on the Agency by this Act or any other Act;

“grant” includes a grant by way of reimbursement under a
   reimbursement arrangement;

“inspector” means an inspector appointed by the Agency under
   section 46(2);

“job redesign” means the review and reallocation by an
   employer of job duties and tasks among employees;

“member”, in relation to the Agency, means a member of the
   Agency who is appointed under section 10(1), and includes
   any individual appointed under section 14(2) to act in that
   capacity;

“officer”, in relation to a public body, means an employee of the
   public body and includes an individual under a secondment
   arrangement which makes available the service of the
   individual to the public body;

“permanent resident of Singapore” has the meaning given by
   section 2 of the Immigration Act 1959;

“public body” means a body corporate established by a public
   Act for the purposes of a public function, but excludes a

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
8  NO. 17 OF 2026

      Town Council established under section 4 of the Town
      Councils Act 1988;

   “reimbursement arrangement” means a written arrangement
      made between the Agency and a service provider in respect
      of the provision of any career and employment services, or
      training, to a person eligible to receive any financial
      incentive, support, grant, aid or assistance from the Agency
      to the effect that where —

           (a) the person so eligible receives the services or training
                for a charge; and

           (b) the service provider incurs costs and expenses in
                providing the services or training to that eligible
                person,

      the service provider is entitled, under the arrangement, to
      reimbursement from the Agency of the whole or part of the
      charges or costs and expenses mentioned in paragraph (a)
      or (b) or both;

   “service provider” means a provider of career and employment
      services or a provider of training;

   “Skills Development Fund” means the Skills Development Fund
      established under section 5 of the Skills Development Levy
      Act 1979;

   “subdelegate” means a person to whom a delegate under
      section 30(2) further delegates any of the Agency’s
      functions or powers.

                                    PART 2

                ESTABLISHMENT, FUNCTIONS AND
                          POWERS OF AGENCY

Skills and Workforce Development Agency

 3. A body called the Skills and Workforce Development Agency is
established by this section.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   9

Agency is body corporate

 4.—(1) The Agency —

       (a) is a body corporate with perpetual succession;

       (b) may acquire, hold and dispose of real and personal
            property; and

       (c) may sue and be sued in its corporate name.

 (2) The Agency may use, and operate under, one or more trading
names approved by the Minister.

 (3) A trading name can be an abbreviation or adaptation of the
Agency’s corporate name, or a name other than the Agency’s
corporate name.

 (4) The Agency must cause notice of every trading name approved
under subsection (2) to be published in the Gazette; but failure to do
so does not invalidate the approval or use of that name.

Functions of Agency

 5.—(1) The Agency has the following functions:

       (a) to promote the development and enhance the quality of
            career and employment services and training in Singapore,
            including by collaboration and cooperation with
            universities, public sector post‑secondary education
            institutions, providers of career and employment
            services, employers, training institutions, labour market
            intermediaries and trade associations and chambers;

       (b) to identify and develop the skills, knowledge and
            qualifications required of the workforce to meet the
            current, emerging and future needs of Singapore, in
            collaboration with employers, trade associations and
            chambers and public agencies in Singapore;

       (c) to coordinate and provide career and employment services
            and training to —

               (i) support students to prepare for entry into the labour
                   market;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
10  NO. 17 OF 2026

          (ii) enable citizens of Singapore and permanent residents
                of Singapore to obtain employment or
                re‑employment; and

          (iii) enable employees to develop their career and to
                remain in productive employment;

    (d) to collaborate with and support employers, relevant
         representatives of commerce or industry and public
         agencies in Singapore —

           (i) to identify and promote the acquisition and
                enhancement of industry‑specific skills;

          (ii) to enhance individuals’ employability by improving
                their skills, knowledge and qualifications;

          (iii) to carry out job redesign so as to enable improved
                working arrangements and productivity;

          (iv) to develop models for the provision of career and
                employment services or for training; and

           (v) to increase workforce productivity and improve the
                international competitiveness of commerce or
                industry;

    (e) to promote the development of the human resources
         profession and the adoption of best practices in the
         management of human resources;

    (f) to promote a culture of lifelong learning and career
         development;

    (g) to collect and compile data on, or undertake, direct or
         support research and analysis of, career, employment and
         training matters and labour market information and trends,
         and to disseminate such information to the public;

    (h) to represent the Government internationally in matters
         relating to workforce development and career,
         employment and training matters;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   11

        (i) with respect to career and employment services or training
            programmes provided in Singapore (even if the services or
            programmes are developed outside Singapore) —

               (i) to accredit, or facilitate the accreditation by others in
                   Singapore of, such service providers;

              (ii) to raise the quality of such services and programmes;
                   and

             (iii) to facilitate the public availability of meaningful and
                   accurate information about such services and
                   programmes;

        (j) to provide financial support to service providers or
            recipients of career and employment services or training,
            including by way of incentives, grants or loans, or to defray
            or subsidise any costs or expenses incurred or to be
            incurred in connection with those services;

       (k) to administer —

               (i) the Private Education Act 2009 in accordance with
                   that Act and any directions given by the relevant
                   Minister charged with the responsibility for that Act;
                   and

              (ii) the Skills Development Fund in accordance with the
                   Skills Development Levy Act 1979;

        (l) to advise and make recommendations to the Government
            on policies and programmes relating to career,
            employment and training matters, and other measures
            and laws connected with the Agency’s functions under this
            Act or any other written law;

      (m) to perform such other functions as may be conferred on the
            Agency by any other Act.

 (2) In addition to the functions conferred by this section, the
Agency may undertake such other functions as the Minister may
assign to the Agency, by notification in the Gazette, and in so
undertaking —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
12  NO. 17 OF 2026

       (a) the Agency is deemed to be fulfilling the purposes of this
            Act; and

       (b) the provisions of this Act apply to the Agency in respect of
            those other functions.

 (3) Nothing in this section imposes on the Agency, directly or
indirectly, any form of duty or liability enforceable by proceedings
before any court to which the Agency would not otherwise be subject.

 (4) In this section —

      “public sector post‑secondary education institution” means —

              (a) the Institute of Technical Education, Singapore
                   established under the Institute of Technical
                   Education Act 1992;

              (b) the Nanyang Polytechnic established under the
                   Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992;

              (c) the Ngee Ann Polytechnic established under the
                   Ngee Ann Polytechnic Act 1967;

              (d) the Republic Polytechnic established under the
                   Republic Polytechnic Act 2002;

              (e) the Singapore Polytechnic established under the
                   Singapore Polytechnic Act 1954;

              (f) the Temasek Polytechnic established under the
                   Temasek Polytechnic Act 1990; or

              (g) any company that is owned (wholly or partly) by the
                   Institute of Technical Education, Singapore or any
                   polytechnic mentioned in paragraphs (b) to (f);

      “university” means —

              (a) the Nanyang Technological University;

              (b) the National University of Singapore;

              (c) the Singapore Management University;

              (d) the Singapore University of Technology and Design;

              (e) the Singapore Institute of Technology;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   13

              (f) the Singapore University of Social Sciences;

              (g) any other person whose function of providing
                   university education is determined by a public Act; or

              (h) any entity that is owned (wholly or partly) or
                   controlled by any university or person mentioned in
                   paragraphs (a) to (g).

Powers of Agency

 6.—(1) The Agency has power to do all things necessary or
expedient to be done for, or in connection with, the performance of its
functions.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the powers of the Agency
include the following:

       (a) to enter into contracts, agreements or arrangements;

       (b) to acquire, develop, hold and dispose of real or personal
            property;

       (c) to appoint and act through agents;

       (d) to employ staff and engage consultants;

       (e) to publish or provide any information, or publish or
            sponsor the publication of works;

        (f) to apply for, obtain and hold, whether on its own behalf or
            jointly with any other person, any intellectual property
            rights;

       (g) to enter into agreements or arrangements for the
            commercial exploitation of those intellectual property
            rights, whether by assignment, licensing or otherwise;

       (h) with the approval of the Minister, to form or join in the
            formation of a company, association, trust or partnership or
            enter into a joint venture with any person;

        (i) to be a member of a company, association, trust or
            partnership;

        (j) to provide financial incentives, support, grant, aid or
            assistance to any person;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
14  NO. 17 OF 2026

       (k) to charge for the provision of goods or services, or the
            performance of work, by or on behalf of the Agency;

        (l) to waive the payment of fees and charges payable to the
            Agency;

      (m) to accept grants, subsidies, donations, gifts or contributions
            from any source, or raise funds by all lawful means;

       (n) to enter into agreements or arrangements with persons,
            authorities or organisations in Singapore or overseas for
            the purposes of the Agency;

       (o) to provide technical, consultancy or advisory services to
            the Government or any other person on any matter related
            to, or connected with, career, employment and training
            matters;

       (p) to collect, compile, analyse and disseminate information of
            a statistical nature or otherwise concerning matters relating
            to its functions;

       (q) to develop, issue or adopt codes of practice and guidelines
            relating to career, employment and training matters;

       (r) to do any other thing that is incidental or conducive to the
            performance of its functions.

 (3) To avoid doubt, subsections (1) and (2) do not limit any other
power given to the Agency by any other provision of this Act or by
any other Act.

 (4) The Agency may exercise its powers inside or outside
Singapore.

Directions of Minister, etc.

 7.—(1) The Minister may give to the Agency any direction under
section 5 of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

 (2) To avoid doubt, the Minister is entitled —

       (a) to have information in the possession of the Agency; and

       (b) where the information is in or on a document, to have, and
            make and retain copies of, that document.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   15

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), the Minister may request the
Agency —

       (a) to provide information to the Minister; or

       (b) to give the Minister access to information.

 (4) The Agency must comply with a request under subsection (3).

 (5) In this section, “information” means information specified, or of
a description specified, by the Minister that relates to the functions of
the Agency.

Agency’s symbol, etc.

 8.—(1) The Agency has the exclusive right to the use of one or
more symbols or representations as the Agency may select or devise
(each called in this section the Agency’s symbol or representation),
and to display or exhibit those symbols or representations in
connection with the Agency’s activities or affairs.

 (2) A person who —

       (a) uses, without the prior written permission of the Agency, a
            symbol or representation identical to the Agency’s symbol
            or representation; or

       (b) uses a symbol or representation that so resembles the
            Agency’s symbol or representation as to deceive or cause
            confusion, or to be likely to deceive or to cause confusion,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                    PART 3
       CONSTITUTION AND MEMBERSHIP OF AGENCY

         Division 1 — Appointment, resignation and removal
Membership of Agency

 9.—(1) The Agency consists of at least 7 and not more than
15 members.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
16  NO. 17 OF 2026

 (2) One of the members (who is not the Chairperson) may be the
Chief Executive.

Appointment of Agency members

 10.—(1) Each member of the Agency is to be appointed by the
Minister.

 (2) Every appointment must be made by instrument in writing
given to the member.

 (3) The instrument must state —

       (a) the term of the appointment; and

       (b) the date the appointment takes effect, which must not be a
            date earlier than the date the instrument is received by the
            member.

Membership disqualification

 11.—(1) In appointing members of the Agency, the Minister must
have regard to whether the members of the Agency will collectively
possess the appropriate knowledge, skills and experience to assist the
Agency to perform its functions effectively.

 (2) However, the following individuals are disqualified from being
a member of the Agency:

       (a) an undischarged bankrupt or an individual who has an
            arrangement with any of his or her creditors;

       (b) a Judge or judicial officer;

       (c) an individual who has been sentenced to imprisonment for
            a term of 6 months or more, and has not received a free
            pardon;

       (d) an individual who is —

               (i) disqualified under section 154(1) of the Companies
                   Act 1967 from acting as a director, or taking part
                   (whether directly or indirectly) in the management of
                   a company or a foreign company referred to in that
                   provision during the period of disqualification in that
                   provision;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   17

              (ii) disqualified by a court order under section 149(1),
                   149A(1) or 154(2) of the Companies Act 1967 from
                   being a director, or in any way (whether directly or
                   indirectly) being concerned in, or taking part in, the
                   management of a company or a foreign company
                   referred to in those provisions during the period of
                   disqualification in the court order;

             (iii) disqualified under section 58(1) of the Variable
                   Capital Companies Act 2018 from acting as a
                   director, or taking part (whether directly or
                   indirectly) in the management of a VCC during the
                   period of disqualification in that provision; or

             (iv) disqualified by a court order under section 56(1),
                   57(1) or 58(2) of the Variable Capital Companies
                   Act 2018 from being a director or in any way
                   (whether directly or indirectly) being concerned in,
                   or taking part in, the management of a VCC during
                   the period of disqualification in the court order;

       (e) an individual who lacks capacity in respect of his or her
            duties as a member within the meaning of the Mental
            Capacity Act 2008, or in respect of whom an order is made
            under section 10 of the Mental Health (Care and
            Treatment) Act 2008.

 (3) In this section, “VCC” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of
the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018.

Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson

 12.—(1) The Minister may, by instrument in writing, appoint —

       (a) a member (other than the Chief Executive) to be the
            Chairperson of the Agency for the period specified in the
            instrument; and

       (b) one or more members (other than the Chairperson) to be a
            Deputy Chairperson of the Agency for the period specified
            in the instrument.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
18  NO. 17 OF 2026

 (2) The Chairperson or a Deputy Chairperson holds office until
whichever of the following first happens:

       (a) his or her term of office as Chairperson or
            Deputy Chairperson (as the case may be) expires;

       (b) he or she ceases to hold office as a member of the Agency;

       (c) the Minister terminates the appointment as Chairperson or
            Deputy Chairperson, as the case may be.

 (3) A Deputy Chairperson has and may perform or exercise all of
the functions and powers of the Chairperson in relation to a matter
if —

       (a) the Chairperson is unavailable; or

       (b) the Chairperson is interested in the matter (within the
            meaning given by Part 4 of the Public Sector (Governance)
            Act 2018).

Premature vacancies

 13.—(1) If a premature vacancy occurs in the office of any member
of the Agency, the Minister may, subject to sections 9, 10 and 11,
appoint an individual to fill the vacancy and hold that office for the
remainder of the term for which the vacating member was appointed.

 (2) In this section, “premature vacancy”, for an office, means a
vacancy that occurs in that office by virtue of section 20(1) or for any
reason other than the expiry of the term of office.

Acting Chairperson and members

 14.—(1) The Minister may appoint an individual (other than the
Chief Executive) to act temporarily as the Chairperson during any
period, or during all periods, when the Chairperson —

       (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

 (2) The Minister may appoint an individual to act temporarily as a
member of the Agency (other than the Chairperson) during any
period, or during all periods, when the member —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   19

       (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

 (3) An individual is ineligible for appointment under this section to
act as the Chairperson or a member of the Agency if the individual is
disqualified under section 11(2) for appointment as a member.

Removal of member

 15.—(1) The Minister may, at any time and without giving any
reason, remove a member of the Agency from office.

 (2) Every removal under subsection (1) must be made by written
notice given to the member with a copy to the Agency.

 (3) The notice must state the date the removal takes effect, which
must not be a date earlier than the date the notice is received by the
member.

Resignation from office

 16.—(1) A member of the Agency may resign his or her office by
written notice to the Minister (with a copy to the Agency) signed by
the member.

 (2) The resignation is effective when the notice in subsection (1) is
received by the Minister or at any later time specified in the notice.

Validity of acts, etc.

 17.—(1) Despite section 33 of the Interpretation Act 1965, the
performance of any function or exercise of any power of the Agency
by the Agency is not affected merely because at the relevant time —

       (a) there was a vacancy in the membership of the Agency,
            including a vacancy arising from the failure to appoint a
            member;

       (b) there was some defect or irregularity existing in the
            appointment or continuance in office of an individual
            purporting to be a member of the Agency; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
20  NO. 17 OF 2026

       (c) there was an irregularity in the Agency’s decision‑making
            procedure that does not affect the merits of the decision
            made.

 (2) The acts of an individual as a member of the Agency are not
affected merely because —

       (a) there was some defect or irregularity existing in the
            appointment or continuance in office of the individual
            purporting to be a member of the Agency; or

       (b) in the case of an individual acting in the capacity of the
            Chairperson, a member or the Chief Executive, the
            occasion for the individual so acting, or for his or her
            appointment, had not arisen or had ended.

           Division 2 — Terms and conditions for members
Term of appointment

 18.—(1) Subject to section 20, each member of the Agency holds
office for a period of 3 years or any shorter period specified in the
instrument of appointment.

 (2) A member of the Agency may be re‑appointed.

Remuneration, etc.
 19. The members of the Agency may be paid, out of the funds of the

Agency, such salaries, fees and allowances as the Minister
determines.

Vacation of office
 20.—(1) A member of the Agency ceases to hold office if he or

she —
       (a) dies;
       (b) is adjudicated a bankrupt or makes an arrangement with
            any of his or her creditors;
       (c) becomes otherwise disqualified from being a member
            under section 11(2);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   21

       (d) is removed from office in accordance with section 15;

       (e) resigns in accordance with section 16;

        (f) fails, without reasonable cause, to disclose any interest
            required under Division 1 of Part 4 of the Public Sector
            (Governance) Act 2018 and a notice is given under that Act
            to the Minister about that default;

       (g) fails to attend 3 consecutive meetings of the Agency
            without the approval of the Agency; or

       (h) is not re‑appointed when his or her term of office expires.

 (2) A member of the Agency is not entitled to any compensation or
other payment or benefit relating to his or her ceasing, for any reason,
to hold office as a member.

Other terms and conditions

 21. The Minister may specify other terms and conditions of
appointment of a member of the Agency in the instrument of
appointment.

                                    PART 4

                  DECISION‑MAKING BY AGENCY

                           Division 1 — Meetings

Procedure generally

 22. Subject to this Act and the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, the members of the Agency may regulate their own
proceedings and business.

Notice of meetings

 23.—(1) The Agency must hold such meetings as are necessary for
the performance of its functions.

 (2) The Chairperson must appoint the times and places of the
meetings of the Agency, and cause notice of those meetings to be
given to each member, including those not present when the
appointment is made.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
22  NO. 17 OF 2026

 (3) The meetings of the Agency must be held in accordance with the
provisions of this Act and Part 4 of the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018.

Quorum

 24.—(1) The quorum for a meeting of the Agency is the higher of
the following:

       (a) one‑third of the number of members;

       (b) 3 members.

 (2) No business may be transacted at a meeting of the Agency if a
quorum is not present.

Presiding at meetings

 25.—(1) At a meeting of the Agency, the following person
presides:

       (a) if there is a Chairperson and he or she is present and is not
            interested (within the meaning given by Part 4 of the Public
            Sector (Governance) Act 2018) in the matter — the
            Chairperson;

       (b) if there is no Chairperson, or the Chairperson is not present
            or is interested (within the meaning given by Part 4 of the
            Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018) in the matter, and a
            Deputy Chairperson who is not so interested in the matter
            is present — the Deputy Chairperson;

       (c) in any other case — a member elected from among the
            members present at the meeting to preside.

 (2) The person specified in subsection (1)(b) or (c) may perform the
functions and exercise the powers of the Chairperson for the purposes
of the meeting.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   23

Voting at meetings

 26.—(1) Each member of the Agency has one vote.

 (2) In addition to his or her general vote, the person presiding at a
meeting has, in the case of an equality of votes at the meeting, a
casting vote.

 (3) A resolution of the Agency is passed if it is agreed to by all
members present without dissent, or if a majority of the members who
are entitled to vote on the matter cast votes in favour of it.

 (4) A member present at a meeting of the Agency is presumed to
have agreed to, and to have voted in favour of, a resolution of the
Agency unless he or she expressly dissents from or votes against the
resolution at the meeting or is prevented from voting by section 26 of
the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

Execution of documents

 27.—(1) The Agency must have a seal.

 (2) The seal of the Agency is to be kept and used as authorised by
the Agency.

 (3) A document is duly executed by the Agency if —

       (a) the seal of the Agency is affixed to the document in the
            presence of one of its members who must sign the
            document to attest that the seal was so affixed, and the
            document is signed —

               (i) by any 2 members generally or specially authorised
                   by the Agency for the purpose; or

              (ii) by one member and the Chief Executive; or

       (b) the document is signed on behalf of the Agency by a person
            or persons authorised to do so by the Agency and in
            accordance with the terms of that authorisation.

 (4) A document purporting to be executed in accordance with this
section is presumed to be duly executed until the contrary is shown.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
24  NO. 17 OF 2026

 (5) All courts, judges and persons acting judicially must take
judicial notice of the imprint of the seal of the Agency appearing on a
document.

 (6) When a document is produced bearing a seal purporting to be
the seal of the Agency, it must be presumed that the seal is the seal of
the Agency until the contrary is shown.

                Division 2 — Committees and delegation

Appointment of committees

 28.—(1) The Agency may, by resolution, appoint any number of
committees that the Agency thinks fit for purposes which, in the
opinion of the Agency, would be better regulated and managed by
means of those committees.

 (2) A committee appointed under this section may consist of any
number of individuals that the Agency thinks fit, and may include
individuals who are not members of the Agency.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (1), the Agency may appoint
committees —

       (a) to advise the Agency on any matters relating to the
            Agency’s functions and powers that are referred to the
            committee by the Agency; or

       (b) to perform or exercise any of the Agency’s functions and
            powers that are delegated to the committee, if the
            committee includes at least one member of the Agency.

 (4) An individual may not be appointed as a member of a committee
unless, before appointment, he or she discloses to the Agency the
details of any interest (within the meaning given by Part 4 of the
Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018) the individual may have if he
or she were a member of that committee.

Proceedings of committees

 29.—(1) Section 17 applies to a committee, and to committee
members or individuals purporting to be committee members, with
the necessary modifications.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   25

 (2) Subject to this Act, the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
and any restrictions by a resolution under section 28(1), a committee
may regulate its own proceedings and business.

Ability to delegate

 30.—(1) The Agency may delegate any of its functions or powers,
either generally or specially and subject to any conditions or
restrictions that the Agency thinks fit, to any of the following persons:

       (a) a member of the Agency;

       (b) the Chief Executive, an officer of the Agency or any other
            person performing duties in the Agency;

       (c) a committee that includes at least one member of the
            Agency;

       (d) a wholly‑owned subsidiary company of the Agency;

       (e) a person engaged as a contractor by the Agency.

 (2) A delegation by the Agency under subsection (1) of any of its
functions or powers —

       (a) to a person in subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c) may authorise the
            delegate to subdelegate the function or power to another
            member or an appropriately qualified officer of the Agency
            (called in this Act a subdelegate); or

       (b) to a person in subsection (1)(d) or (e) may authorise the
            delegate to subdelegate the function or power to an
            appropriately qualified employee of that delegate (also
            called in this Act a subdelegate),

but subject to the same restrictions, and with the same effect, as if the
subdelegate is the delegate.

 (3) A delegation by the Agency under subsection (1) must be by
resolution and written notice given to the delegate.

 (4) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to any function or power
under this Act or any other Act that is declared by this Act or that
other Act to be non‑delegable.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
26  NO. 17 OF 2026

 (5) A delegation or subdelegation in accordance with this section is
not affected by any change —

       (a) in the membership of a committee (where the delegate is
            the committee), so long as the committee includes at least
            one member of the Agency; or

       (b) in the individual appointed as the Chief Executive or
            holding any specified office in the Agency (where the
            delegate is the Chief Executive or the holder of the
            specified office).

 (6) In this section —

       (a) a reference to a wholly‑owned subsidiary company of the
            Agency includes a company limited by guarantee the sole
            member of which is the Agency; and

       (b) a reference to a person performing duties in the Agency
            includes a person performing duties in the Agency under a
            contract, or under an arrangement making available
            temporarily to the Agency the services of public officers.

Validity of delegate’s acts, etc.

 31.—(1) A delegate (or subdelegate) who purports to perform a
function or exercise a power under a delegation (or subdelegation) —

       (a) is taken to do so in accordance with the terms of the
            delegation (or subdelegation) under section 30, unless the
            contrary is shown; and

       (b) must produce evidence of the delegation (or
            subdelegation), if reasonably requested to do so.

 (2) A subdelegate to whom a function or power of the Agency is
subdelegated under section 30(2) is not authorised to further delegate
that function or power to anyone else.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   27

                                    PART 5

                         PERSONNEL MATTERS

Appointment of Chief Executive

 32.—(1) There must be a Chief Executive of the Agency, whose
appointment, removal, discipline and promotion must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

 (2) The Agency may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint an individual to act temporarily as the
Chief Executive during any period, or during all periods, when the
Chief Executive —

       (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

Officers, etc.

 33. The Agency may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint and employ, on such terms and conditions as the
Agency may determine, such other officers, consultants and agents as
may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

Delegates, subdelegates and authorised persons deemed to be
public servants or public officers

 34.—(1) Without affecting sections 20 and 21 of the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018, every delegate and subdelegate of the
Agency —

       (a) is deemed to be a public servant for the purposes of the
            Penal Code 1871 in relation to his or her performance of
            any function or exercise of any power of the Agency; and

       (b) is, in relation to his or her administration, assessment,
            collection and enforcement of payment of —

               (i) any financial penalty imposed under section 21 or 37
                   of the Private Education Act 2009; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
28  NO. 17 OF 2026

              (ii) any composition sum collected under this Act,
                   section 17 of the Skills Development Levy
                   Act 1979 or section 40 of the Private Education
                   Act 2009,

       (b) taken to be a public officer for the purposes of the Financial
            Procedure Act 1966; and section 20 of that Act applies to
            each of those delegates and subdelegates even though he or
            she is not or was not employed by the Government.

 (2) Without affecting sections 20 and 21 of the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018, every authorised person appointed under
section 46(1) or under section 14A(1) of the Skills Development
Levy Act 1979 is deemed to be a public servant for the purposes of
the Penal Code 1871.

Preservation of secrecy

 35.—(1) Any member or committee member of the Agency, the
Chief Executive, any officer, consultant, agent, delegate or
subdelegate of the Agency, or any authorised person or inspector,
who has information in his or her capacity as such that would not
otherwise be available to him or her, must not disclose that
information to any person except —

       (a) in the performance of the Agency’s functions;

       (b) with the prior authorisation from the Agency to do so;

       (c) for the purposes of any proceedings for an offence under
            this Act, or any report of those proceedings;

       (d) as required by an order of court;

       (e) in complying with the requirements in this Act for a
            member of the Agency or a committee member to disclose
            an interest; or

        (f) as required or allowed by or under this Act or any other
            Act.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   29

$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (3) In this section and section 36 —

      “authorised person” means an authorised person appointed
         under section 46(1) or section 14A(1) of the Skills
         Development Levy Act 1979;

      “inspector” means an inspector appointed under section 46(2),
         section 14A(2) of the Skills Development Levy Act 1979 or
         section 29(1) of the Private Education Act 2009.

Protection from personal liability

 36. No liability shall lie against any member or committee member
of the Agency, the Chief Executive, any officer, delegate or
subdelegate of the Agency, or any authorised person, inspector, or
other person acting under the direction of the Agency, for anything
which is done or purported to be done, or omitted to be done, in good
faith and with reasonable care in —

       (a) the performance or purported performance of any function
            under this Act or any other Act; or

       (b) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
            Act or any other Act.

                                    PART 6

                        FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Financial year

 37.—(1) The financial year of the Agency begins on 1 April of
each year and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

 (2) However, the first financial year of the Agency begins on the
date of commencement of this Act and ends on 31 March of the
succeeding year.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
30  NO. 17 OF 2026

Revenue and property of Agency

 38.—(1) The funds and property of the Agency include —

       (a) all moneys paid to the Agency by way of grants, subsidies,
            donations, gifts and contributions for the purposes of the
            Agency;

       (b) all moneys paid to, and all other moneys and property
            lawfully received by, the Agency for the purposes of the
            Agency;

       (c) all moneys recovered by the Agency pursuant to an order
            of a court under section 51 or 58, that relate to the whole or
            the proportion of an incentive, a grant or a loan out of
            moneys not in the Skills Development Fund;

       (d) all fees and charges payable to the Agency under this Act
            or any other Act administered by the Agency;

       (e) all moneys, dividends, royalties, interest or income
            received from any transaction made pursuant to the
            powers of the Agency under this Act or any other Act
            administered by the Agency;

        (f) all moneys borrowed by the Agency under this Act;

       (g) the Skills Development Fund; and

       (h) all accumulations of income derived from any property or
            money mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (g).

 (2) The Skills Development Fund must be managed and
administered by the Agency separately from the other funds and
property of the Agency.

Bank accounts

 39.—(1) The Agency must open and maintain one or more accounts
with such bank or banks as the Agency thinks fit.

 (2) Every such account may only be operated by a person who is
authorised to do so by the Agency.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   31

Power of investment

 40. The Agency may invest its moneys (except the Skills
Development Fund) in accordance with the standard investment
power of statutory bodies as defined in section 33A of the
Interpretation Act 1965.

Issue of shares, etc.

 41. As a consequence of —

       (a) the vesting of any property, rights or liabilities in the
            Agency under this Act; or

       (b) any capital injection or other investment by the
            Government in the Agency in accordance with any other
            written law,

the Agency must issue such shares or other securities to the Finance
Minister as the Finance Minister may direct.

Borrowing power

 42.—(1) The Agency cannot raise loans for the performance of its
functions under this Act or any other Act administered by the Agency
except in accordance with this section.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the Agency may raise loans by —

       (a) mortgage, overdraft or other means, with or without
            security;

       (b) charge, whether legal or equitable, on any property vested
            in the Agency or on any other revenue receivable by the
            Agency under this Act or any other written law; or

       (c) the creation and issue of debentures, bonds or any other
            instrument as the Minister may approve.

 (3) The Agency may raise loans —

       (a) from the Government; or

       (b) with the approval of the Minister, from another source,
            whether within or outside Singapore.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
32  NO. 17 OF 2026

 (4) For the purposes of this section, the power to raise loans
includes the power to make any financial agreement under which
credit facilities are granted to the Agency for the purchase of goods,
materials or things.

Estimates for Skills Development Fund

 43.—(1) In addition to the requirements of the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018, the Agency must, in every financial year,
prepare or cause to be prepared, and must adopt annual estimates of
income and expenditure for the Skills Development Fund for the
ensuing financial year in accordance with the Skills Development
Levy Act 1979.

 (2) Supplementary estimates for the Skills Development Fund may
be adopted by the Agency where necessary.

 (3) A copy of all annual estimates and supplementary estimates
mentioned in subsections (1) and (2) must, upon their adoption by the
Agency, be sent as soon as possible to the Minister.

Skills Development Fund to be audited separately

 44. The provisions of Part 5 of the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018 do not affect the requirements in sections 20 and 21 of, and
the First Schedule to, the Skills Development Levy Act 1979 insofar
as the requirements apply in relation to the Skills Development Fund.

                                    PART 7

             ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

    Division 1 — Preliminary matters, appointments and powers

Meanings of “incentive”, “grant” and “loan” from Agency

 45. In this Part, an incentive, a grant or a loan from the Agency
means —

       (a) an incentive, a grant or a loan given by the Agency out of
            moneys in the Skills Development Fund in accordance
            with section 7 of the Skills Development Levy Act 1979;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   33

       (b) an incentive, a grant or a loan given by the Agency out of
            moneys not in the Skills Development Fund; or

       (c) an incentive, a grant or a loan given by the Agency out of a
            combination of moneys mentioned in paragraphs (a)
            and (b).

Appointment of authorised persons and inspectors

 46.—(1) The Agency may appoint an officer or agent of the
Agency, a public officer, an officer of another public body or any
other suitably qualified individual to be an authorised person for the
purposes of section 47.

 (2) The Agency may appoint any of its officers to be an inspector
for the purposes of this Act.

 (3) The Agency must issue to every authorised person and inspector
an identification card that identifies him or her as an authorised
person or inspector, as the case may be.

 (4) An authorised person or inspector must produce his or her
identification card for inspection —

       (a) before exercising a power conferred on him or her by this
            Act; and

       (b) at any time during the exercise of a power conferred on him
            or her by this Act, if asked to do so.

Powers to verify information collected or for grants, etc.

 47.—(1) The powers under this section may be exercised only for
the purpose of inquiring into or ascertaining —

       (a) the truth or correctness of any statement made, or of any
            information given, by a person who applies or has applied
            for an incentive, a grant or a loan from the Agency; or

       (b) whether any incentive, grant or loan from the Agency has
            been properly applied by the person to whom the incentive,
            grant or loan is given.

 (2) An authorised person may, at any reasonable time, do any of the
following, without involving any search of any property or person:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
34  NO. 17 OF 2026

       (a) enter any premises;

       (b) photograph or film, or make audio recordings or make
            sketches of, any part of the premises or anything at the
            premises;

       (c) require any person to provide or grant access to, without
            charge, any document or information reasonably required
            for any purpose mentioned in subsection (1);

       (d) inspect and make copies of or take extracts from any such
            document;

       (e) take possession of such a document if, in the opinion of the
            authorised person —

               (i) the inspection or copying of or extraction from the
                   document cannot reasonably be performed without
                   taking possession;

              (ii) the document may be interfered with or destroyed
                   unless possession is taken; or

             (iii) the document may be required as evidence in any
                   proceedings instituted or commenced for any of the
                   purposes of, or in connection with, this Act;

        (f) require any person to complete and deliver any return
            specified within the time specified in the notice.

 (3) The power to require a person to provide any document or
information under subsection (2)(c) includes the power —

       (a) to require the person, or any person who is or was an
            officer or employee of that person, to explain the document
            or information;

       (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
            the person to state, to the best of the person’s knowledge
            and belief, where it is; and

       (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            authorised person in legible form.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   35

 (4) If any document is kept in electronic form, the power of an
authorised person who is an officer of the Agency, a public officer or
an officer of another public body —

       (a) to inspect and make copies of or take extracts from any
            document under subsection (2)(d) includes the power to —

               (i) access any computer or other equipment (including a
                   mobile telephone, thumb drive or hard disk) in which
                   the document is stored; and

              (ii) require any person having charge of, or otherwise
                   concerned with the operation of, the computer or
                   other equipment to provide assistance in gaining
                   such access; and

       (b) to take possession of the document under subsection (2)(e)
            includes the power to —

               (i) make copies of or take extracts from the document in
                   legible or electronic form; and

              (ii) transfer the information from the document to a
                   thumb drive, hard disk, tape or other storage device.

Powers of inspectors

 48.—(1) An inspector may, for the purpose of investigating an
offence under this Act, exercise all or any of the following powers:

       (a) the powers conferred on an authorised person under
            section 47(2), (3) and (4) as if a reference to an
            authorised person in those provisions were a reference to
            an inspector;

       (b) the powers under subsection (2).

 (2) An inspector may —

       (a) require any person whom the inspector reasonably believes
            to have committed the offence to provide evidence of the
            person’s identity;

       (b) require, by written order, the attendance before the
            inspector of any person within the limits of Singapore

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
36  NO. 17 OF 2026

            who, from any information given or otherwise obtained by
            the inspector, appears to be acquainted with the facts or
            circumstances of the case;

       (c) examine orally any person reasonably believed to be
            acquainted with the facts or circumstances of the case or
            with such other matter as the inspector may specify, and
            reduce to writing the answer given or statement made by
            that person;

       (d) without charge, search for, seize and remove any document
            (subject to paragraph (e) in relation to a document kept in
            electronic form) or thing from any premises, as the
            inspector may consider necessary; and

       (e) if the inspector is unable to make copies of or take extracts
            from any document, or transfer the information from any
            document, in exercise of the powers under
            section 47(4)(b) —

               (i) seize the computer or other equipment (including a
                   mobile telephone, thumb drive or hard disk) in which
                   the document is stored, as evidence in proceedings
                   for an offence mentioned in subsection (1); and

              (ii) require any person having charge of, or otherwise
                   concerned with the operation of, the computer or
                   other equipment to disclose any password or access
                   code for gaining access to the document stored in the
                   computer or other equipment.

 (3) Any person examined under this section is bound to state truly
what the person knows of the facts and circumstances concerning
matters under this Act, except that the person need not say anything
that might expose him or her to a criminal charge, penalty or
forfeiture.

 (4) A statement made by any person examined under this section
must —

       (a) be reduced to writing;

       (b) be read over to the person;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   37

(c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
     a language that he or she understands; and

(d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the person.

             Division 2 — Offences and related provisions

Abusive funding arrangement

 49.—(1) In this section and sections 50 and 51, “funding
arrangement” means any agreement, scheme, transaction or series
of transactions (whether or not legally enforceable) where the
purpose, or one of the purposes, is to obtain an incentive, a grant
or a loan from the Agency.

 (2) For the purposes of this section and sections 50 and 51, a
funding arrangement is an abusive funding arrangement if the
funding arrangement, or a transaction forming part of the funding
arrangement, results or would result in a person obtaining —

       (a) an incentive, a grant or a loan from the Agency that a
            person would otherwise not be eligible for or would not
            have obtained from the Agency; or

       (b) an amount of an incentive, a grant or a loan from the
            Agency higher than what a person would have been
            eligible for or would have obtained without that
            arrangement or transaction.

 (3) For the purposes of sections 50 and 51, the amount of wrongly
obtained funding that a person obtained or would have obtained from
the Agency in relation to an abusive funding arrangement —

       (a) is the amount of the incentive, grant or loan that results or
            would result from the abusive funding arrangement, or a
            transaction forming part of the abusive funding
            arrangement; but

       (b) excludes any amount the person would have obtained
            without that abusive funding arrangement or transaction.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
38  NO. 17 OF 2026

Entering into or facilitation of abusive funding arrangement

 50.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person —

       (a) enters into or facilitates a funding arrangement that is an
            abusive funding arrangement;

       (b) knows or has reason to believe that the funding
            arrangement is an abusive funding arrangement; and

       (c) intends by entering into or facilitating that abusive funding
            arrangement to dishonestly or fraudulently induce the
            Agency to give an incentive, a grant or a loan to the person,
            or to any other person or persons.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
on conviction —

       (a) pay a penalty equal to the amount of wrongly obtained
            funding that the person obtained, or would have obtained,
            from the Agency as a result of the abusive funding
            arrangement entered into or facilitated by the person; and

       (b) be liable to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
            imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2)(a), it is irrelevant whether the
person convicted of the offence obtained the wrongly obtained
funding from the Agency for the benefit of that person, or for the
benefit of any other person or persons.

 (4) The penalty mentioned in subsection (2)(a) is recoverable in
accordance with section 319 (other than section 319(1)(a)) of the
Criminal Procedure Code 2010 as if it were a fine.

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (1)(a), a person facilitates a
funding arrangement if the person is —

       (a) a training provider or an employer who designs, organises
            or manages the funding arrangement or a transaction
            forming part of the funding arrangement;

       (b) either one of the following employees who participates in,
            or by the employee’s act or omission enables or aids, the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   39

            funding arrangement or a transaction forming part of the
            funding arrangement:

               (i) an employee of the training provider mentioned in
                   paragraph (a);

              (ii) an employee of the employer mentioned in
                   paragraph (a);

       (c) a person who, by attending a course or programme,
            participates in, enables or aids the funding arrangement or
            a transaction forming part of the funding arrangement;

       (d) a marketing agent who publishes, disseminates or
            communicates any information, by any means or in any
            form, for the purpose of inducing or encouraging (whether
            directly or indirectly) any other person to enter into the
            funding arrangement or a transaction forming part of the
            funding arrangement; or

       (e) any other person who —

               (i) designs, organises, manages or participates in, or by
                   the person’s act or omission enables or aids, the
                   funding arrangement or a transaction forming part of
                   the funding arrangement; or

              (ii) publishes, disseminates or communicates any
                   information, by any means or in any form, for the
                   purpose of inducing or encouraging (whether
                   directly or indirectly) any other person to enter into
                   the funding arrangement or a transaction forming
                   part of the funding arrangement.

 (6) However, a person does not facilitate a funding arrangement
under subsection (5) only by reason that the person in the ordinary
course of business —

       (a) provides services relating to, or provides connections for,
            the transmission or routing of data;

       (b) provides, or operates facilities for, online services or
            network access; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
40  NO. 17 OF 2026

       (c) provides a service that —

               (i) enables the end‑users of that service to communicate
                   with other end‑users; or

              (ii) enables the publication, dissemination or
                   communication of information or documents by
                   end‑users of that service,

       (c) whether by means of email, by use of a mobile telephone or
            other device, or by use of application software or
            otherwise.

 (7) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is
presumed, until the contrary is proved, that a person has the intention
mentioned in subsection (1)(c) if the funding arrangement, or a
transaction forming part of the funding arrangement, involves any
step or steps (other than under subsection (6)) which is or are capable
of assisting the person or any other person who enters into that
funding arrangement or transaction to obtain the incentive, grant or
loan.

 (8) To avoid doubt, it is not a defence in any proceedings for an
offence under subsection (1) that the accused did not obtain any
incentive, grant or loan from the Agency.

Recovery by Agency of wrongly obtained funding

 51.—(1) The court before which a person (A) is convicted of an
offence under section 50(1) may, in addition to imposing the penalty
and punishment under section 50(2), order A to repay to the Agency
the amount of wrongly obtained funding that A obtained from the
Agency (whether for A’s benefit, or for the benefit of any other person
or persons) as a result of the abusive funding arrangement entered
into or facilitated by A.

 (2) Where the court makes an order under subsection (1) —

       (a) the court is to certify the amount of wrongly obtained
            funding to be repaid to the Agency; and

       (b) the Agency may recover the amount so certified in any
            civil court of competent jurisdiction as if the amount were
            a judgment debt due to the Agency.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   41

 (3) The Agency must pay the amount of wrongly obtained funding
recovered under this section in the following manner:

       (a) where the amount of wrongly obtained funding is in
            relation to an incentive, a grant or a loan out of moneys in
            the Skills Development Fund — the recovered amount
            must be paid into the Skills Development Fund;

       (b) where the amount of wrongly obtained funding is in
            relation to an incentive, a grant or a loan out of moneys not
            in the Skills Development Fund — the recovered amount
            must be paid into the funds of the Agency under
            section 38(1) excluding the Skills Development Fund
            (called in this subsection the general moneys of the
            Agency);

       (c) where the amount of wrongly obtained funding is in
            relation to an incentive, a grant or a loan out of a
            combination of moneys mentioned in paragraphs (a) and
            (b) — the recovered amount must be paid into the Skills
            Development Fund and to the general moneys of the
            Agency in the respective proportions that moneys were
            withdrawn from the Skills Development Fund and the
            general moneys of the Agency for that incentive, grant or
            loan.

False or misleading advertisements

 52.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person publishes or causes to be published, or
            distributes or causes to be distributed, any advertisement
            that is false or misleading in a material particular; and

       (b) the person knows or ought reasonably to have known that,
            or is reckless as to whether, the advertisement is false or
            misleading in a material particular.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
42  NO. 17 OF 2026

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), a person publishes, or causes
to be published, an advertisement if the advertisement is made
accessible to, or accessed by, persons by means of —

       (a) a newspaper, magazine, journal or any other periodical;

       (b) a sound or television broadcast transmitted for reception;
            or

       (c) any other means of broadcasting or communication for
            circulation or reception.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (1), an advertisement is false or
misleading in a material particular if the advertisement —

       (a) falsely represents that a person is eligible for, or has been
            given, an incentive, a grant or a loan from the Agency in
            respect of a course or programme;

       (b) falsely represents that the Agency has accredited, or
            facilitated the accreditation by others in Singapore of, a
            provider of a course or programme;

       (c) falsely represents that the Agency has accredited, or
            facilitated the accreditation by others in Singapore of, a
            course or programme;

       (d) falsely represents that a provider of a course or
            programme, or a course or programme, is approved or
            endorsed by the Agency;

       (e) contains any false or misleading information concerning a
            provider of a course or programme who is eligible for, or
            has been given, an incentive, a grant or a loan from the
            Agency; or

        (f) concerns a course or programme in respect of which a
            person is eligible for, or has been given, an incentive, a
            grant or a loan from the Agency, and contains any false or
            misleading description of, or false or misleading
            information concerning —

               (i) the curriculum, modules or subjects to be covered by
                   that course or programme; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   43

              (ii) the competencies, expertise or skills to be advanced
                   by that course or programme.

 (5) In this section and section 53 —

      “advertisement” means any writing, still or moving picture,
         sign, symbol (whether 3‑dimensional or 2‑dimensional) or
         other visual image, or any audible message, or any
         combination of 2 or more of those things, that gives
         publicity to, or otherwise promotes or is intended to
         promote, a course or programme;

      “distribute” includes —

              (a) in relation to a printed advertisement — to deliver or
                   send to one or more persons, or to leave at any
                   premises or on any vehicle; and

              (b) in relation to an advertisement in electronic form, in
                   the form of an audio or a visual recording, or in a
                   combination of any of those forms — to transmit to
                   one or more persons by use of the Internet or a mobile
                   telephone network.

Remedial measures for false or misleading advertisements

 53.—(1) This section applies where the Agency is of the opinion
that a person has published or caused to be published, or distributed or
caused to be distributed, any advertisement for which an offence
under section 52(1) may have been committed (called in this section
the defaulting person).

 (2) The Agency may (without compensation) give a direction to the
defaulting person to do all or any of the following:

       (a) take all practicable steps to remove the advertisement;

       (b) modify the advertisement in the manner specified or
            approved by the Agency;

       (c) cease the publication or distribution of any other
            advertisement which is wholly or substantially the same
            as the advertisement mentioned in subsection (1);

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
44  NO. 17 OF 2026

       (d) publish or cause to be published, or distribute or cause to
            be distributed, a corrective advertisement in the manner,
            and containing any information, specified or approved by
            the Agency.

 (3) Before the Agency gives a direction to the defaulting person
under subsection (2), the Agency must, unless the Agency considers
it not practicable or desirable to do so, give written notice to the
defaulting person —

       (a) stating that the Agency intends to give a direction to the
            defaulting person under this section; and

       (b) specifying the time within which written representations
            may be made to the Agency with respect to the proposed
            direction.

 (4) The Agency may, after considering any written representation
made pursuant to subsection (3)(b), decide to give or not to give, or to
modify, the direction as the Agency considers appropriate.

 (5) The Agency must serve on the defaulting person a notice of the
Agency’s decision under subsection (4).

 (6) Every defaulting person must comply with a direction given by
the Agency to the defaulting person under subsection (2).

 (7) A defaulting person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to
comply with a direction given by the Agency under subsection (2)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

       (b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

 (8) Where the defaulting person fails to comply with a direction
given by the Agency under subsection (2), the Agency may —

       (a) take all steps as the Agency considers reasonable and
            necessary to give effect to the direction; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   45

       (b) recover all costs and expenses reasonably incurred by the
            Agency in so doing from the defaulting person, as a civil
            debt due to the Agency.

Refund by funding recipient for cancelled course or
programme, etc.

 54.—(1) This section applies where —

       (a) the Agency has given an incentive, a grant or a loan to any
            person (called in this section a funding recipient) in
            connection with a course or programme;

       (b) a person (called in this section a trainee) takes part in, or
            intends to take part in, a course or programme provided or
            to be provided by the funding recipient;

       (c) the course or programme —

               (i) does not start on the scheduled starting day; or

              (ii) ceases to be provided at any time after it starts but
                   before it is completed; and

       (d) the trainee has not withdrawn from the course or
            programme before the default day.

 (2) The Agency may give a direction to a funding recipient to make
either or both of the following refunds by the time specified in the
direction for that refund:

       (a) a refund to a trainee or any other person of the money
            received by the funding recipient before the default day
            from that trainee or other person (as the case may be) in
            payment for that trainee taking part in the course or
            programme;

       (b) a refund to the Agency of the amount of the incentive,
            grant or loan given by the Agency to the funding recipient
            in connection with each trainee taking part in the course or
            programme.

 (3) Before the Agency gives a direction to the funding recipient
under subsection (2), the Agency must, unless the Agency considers

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
46  NO. 17 OF 2026

it not practicable or desirable to do so, give written notice to the
funding recipient —

       (a) stating that the Agency intends to give a direction to the
            funding recipient under this section; and

       (b) specifying the time (being at least 14 days or any other
            period of time that may be prescribed in substitution)
            within which written representations may be made to the
            Agency with respect to the proposed direction.

 (4) The Agency may, after considering any written representation
made pursuant to subsection (3)(b), decide to give or not to give, or to
modify, the direction as the Agency considers appropriate.

 (5) The Agency must serve on the funding recipient a notice of the
Agency’s decision under subsection (4).

 (6) Every funding recipient must comply with a direction given by
the Agency to the funding recipient under subsection (2).

 (7) Subsection (2) applies despite anything to the contrary
contained in any agreement between the funding recipient and the
trainee concerned, or between the funding recipient and any person
who paid for the course or programme on behalf of the trainee.

 (8) A funding recipient who, without reasonable excuse, fails to
comply with a direction given by the Agency under subsection (2)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (9) In this section —

      “default day”, in relation to a course or programme, means —

              (a) if subsection (1)(c)(i) applies — the scheduled
                   starting day for the course or programme; or

              (b) if subsection (1)(c)(ii) applies — the day on which
                   the course or programme ceases to be provided;

      “scheduled starting day”, in relation to a course or programme,
         means the day on which the course or programme was
         scheduled to start.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   47

Appeal to Minister against directions under sections 53 and 54

 55.—(1) A person who is given a direction by the Agency under
section 53 or 54 and is aggrieved by the Agency’s decision to give the
direction (called in this section an appellant) may appeal to the
Minister against the Agency’s direction in accordance with this
section.

 (2) An appeal under this section must be —

       (a) in writing and specify the grounds on which it is made; and

       (b) made within 14 days (or any other period of time that may
            be prescribed in substitution) after the date the direction
            appealed against is given to the appellant.

 (3) The Minister may reject an appeal of an appellant who fails to
comply with subsection (2).

Decision of Minister on appeal

 56.—(1) After considering an appeal under section 55, the Minister
may —

       (a) reject the appeal and confirm the Agency’s decision to give
            the direction; or

       (b) allow the appeal and vary or revoke the direction that is the
            subject of the appeal.

 (2) The Minister’s decision on an appeal is final.

 (3) Every appellant mentioned in section 55(1) must be notified of
the Minister’s decision under subsection (1).

 (4) An appeal under section 55 does not affect the operation of the
direction appealed against or prevent the taking of action to
implement the direction and, unless otherwise directed by the
Minister, the direction appealed against must be complied with
until the determination of the appeal.

Designate may hear appeal in place of Minister

 57.—(1) The Minister may designate any of the following
office‑holders in his or her Ministry to hear and determine, in the
Minister’s place, any appeal made under section 55:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
48  NO. 17 OF 2026

       (a) the Second Minister, if any;

       (b) any Minister of State or Senior Minister of State;

       (c) any Parliamentary Secretary or Senior Parliamentary
            Secretary.

 (2) A reference to the Minister in section 55 or 56 includes a
reference to a person designated under subsection (1).

False or misleading information, statement or document, etc.

 58.—(1) A person must not —

       (a) in relation to the person’s application, or in support of an
            application by another, for any incentive, grant or loan
            from the Agency, make, or authorise the making of, a
            statement that the person knows to be false or misleading
            in any material particular;

       (b) in providing any document or information required under
            section 47 or 48, or to the Agency in connection with any
            function or power of the Agency under this Act, provide
            any document or information that the person knows to be
            false or misleading in any material particular; or

       (c) intentionally alter, suppress or destroy any document or
            information which the person is required to provide under
            section 47 or 48.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (3) To avoid doubt, it is not a defence in any proceedings for an
offence under subsection (2) for contravening subsection (1)(a) that
the accused did not obtain any incentive, grant or loan from the
Agency.

 (4) The court before which a person is convicted of an offence of
contravening subsection (1)(a) may, in addition to imposing the
punishment under subsection (2), order the person to repay to the
Agency an amount —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   49

       (a) equivalent to the amount of the incentive, grant or loan that
            the Agency gave to the person as a result of the false or
            misleading statement mentioned in subsection (1)(a); but

       (b) which excludes any amount that the Agency would have
            given the person without that false or misleading
            statement.

 (5) Section 51(2) and (3) applies to an order of the court for the
repayment under subsection (4), with the necessary modifications.

Penalty for obstructing member, officer, etc.

 59.—(1) A person must not —

       (a) obstruct or hinder a member, an officer, an agent or a
            delegate or subdelegate of the Agency, an authorised
            person or an inspector, who is performing or exercising any
            function or power under this Act; or

       (b) neglect or refuse to attend before an inspector as required
            under section 48, or otherwise fail to comply with a lawful
            demand of an inspector under that section.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

                                    PART 8

                                  GENERAL

Composition of offences

 60.—(1) The Chief Executive, or an officer of the Agency
authorised in writing by the Agency, may compound any offence
under this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by
collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having committed
the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
50  NO. 17 OF 2026

       (b) $2,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

Offences by corporations

 61.—(1) Where, in any proceedings for an offence under this Act, it
is necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   51

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                   type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                   take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                   commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
         meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
         Act 2005;

      “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
         partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the corporation, and includes —

              (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

              (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
                   members, any of those members as if the member
                   were a director of the corporation;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
52  NO. 17 OF 2026

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 62.—(1) Where, in any proceedings for an offence under this Act, it
is necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated
association or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct,
evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                   case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                   offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the unincorporated
                   association or partnership; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   53

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the unincorporated association or
                   partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                   be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                   reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                   that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
         a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
         member of a committee of the unincorporated association,
         and includes —

              (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
                   president, secretary or member of a committee of the
                   unincorporated association; and

              (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

      “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
54  NO. 17 OF 2026

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

Jurisdiction of courts

 63. Despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, a District Court or a
Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act
and has power to impose the full punishment for the offence.

Service of documents

 64.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by or under this
Act to be served on a person may be served as described in this
section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on an individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents
            generally, or specifically for the document, or, if no address
            is so specified, the individual’s residential address or
            business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;
            or

       (e) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a partnership (other than a limited liability partnership)
may be served —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   55

       (a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer, or an
            authorised representative, of the partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the partnership’s business address; or

       (c) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
            address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a body corporate (including a limited liability partnership)
or an unincorporated association may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
            body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
            manager of the limited liability partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the registered office or principal office in Singapore of
            the body corporate or unincorporated association; or

       (c) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association.

 (5) Service of a document under subsection (2), (3) or (4) takes
effect —

       (a) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
            becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
            it is sent; and

       (b) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
            after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
            undelivered).

 (6) In addition, a document permitted or required by or under this
Act to be served on an individual, partnership, body corporate or
unincorporated association may be served by giving an electronic
notice to the individual, partnership, body corporate or
unincorporated association (called in this section an addressee) by
the addressee’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
document is available and how the addressee may use the
addressee’s chosen means of access to access the document’s
contents.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
56  NO. 17 OF 2026

 (7) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email or by an electronic notice using the person’s chosen means of
notification may be effected only with the person’s prior written
consent to service in that way.

 (8) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

 (9) In this section —

      “authorised representative”, in relation to a partnership (other
         than a limited liability partnership), means any person
         authorised to accept service of documents on behalf of the
         partnership;

      “business address” means —

              (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
                   last known place of business in Singapore; or

              (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
                   liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
                   last known place of business in Singapore;

      “chosen means of access”, for an addressee on whom is or is to
         be served a document permitted or required by or under this
         Act, means an electronic means that the addressee agrees
         with the person serving the document as the means by which
         the addressee may access that document’s contents;

      “chosen means of notification”, for an addressee on whom is or
         is to be served a document permitted or required by or under
         this Act, means an electronic means that the addressee
         nominates to the person serving the document as the means
         by which the addressee may be notified that such a document
         has been served on the addressee;

      “document” includes a direction, notice or order permitted or
         required by or under this Act to be served;

      “last email address” means the last email address given by the
         addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
         document as the email address for the service of documents
         under this Act;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   57

      “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
         place of residence in Singapore.

Regulations

 65. The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations prescribing matters required or permitted by this Act to be
prescribed, or necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying
out or giving effect to this Act.

Codes of practice and guidelines

 66.—(1) The Agency may, from time to time —

       (a) issue one or more codes of practice or guidelines
            applicable to service providers generally or particular
            types of service providers;

       (b) approve as a code of practice or guidelines applicable to
            service providers generally or particular types of service
            providers any document prepared by a person other than
            the Agency if the Agency considers the document as
            suitable for this purpose; or

       (c) amend or revoke any code of practice or guidelines issued
            under paragraph (a) or approved under paragraph (b),

relating to any career, employment and training matters.

 (2) If any provision in any code of practice or guidelines is
inconsistent with any provision of this Act, such provision, to the
extent of the inconsistency —

       (a) is to have effect subject to the provisions of this Act; or

       (b) having regard to the provisions of this Act, is not to have
            effect.

 (3) Where any code of practice or guidelines are issued, approved,
amended or revoked by the Agency under subsection (1), the Agency
must —

       (a) publish a notice of the issue, approval, amendment or
            revocation (as the case may be) of the code of practice or
            guidelines in any manner that will secure adequate

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
58  NO. 17 OF 2026

            publicity for such issue, approval, amendment or
            revocation;

       (b) specify in the notice referred to in paragraph (a) the date of
            issue, approval, amendment or revocation, as the case may
            be; and

       (c) ensure that, so long as the code of practice or guidelines
            remain in force, copies of the code of practice or
            guidelines, and of all amendments to the code of practice
            or guidelines, are available for inspection by any service
            provider.

 (4) No code of practice or guidelines, no amendment to an approved
code of practice or guidelines, and no revocation of any such
approved code of practice or guidelines has any force or effect as an
approved code of practice or guidelines until the notice relating to the
code of practice or guidelines is published in accordance with
subsection (3).

 (5) Any code of practice or guideline issued or approved under this
section does not have legislative effect.

                                    PART 9

               TRANSFER OF UNDERTAKINGS AND
                       PERSONNEL TO AGENCY

Interpretation of this Part

 67. In this Part —

      “agreement” includes an arrangement or undertaking;

      “asset”, in relation to the transferor, means property of any kind
         (whether tangible or intangible, whether arising from,
         accruing under, created or evidenced by or the subject of,
         an instrument or otherwise and whether actual or contingent)
         of the transferor on the eve of the transfer date and includes,
         without limitation, any —

              (a) legal or equitable interest in real or personal property,
                   whether situated in or outside Singapore;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   59

        (b) chose in action;

        (c) money or securities;

        (d) plant and equipment, whether situated in or outside
             Singapore;

        (e) intellectual property;

        (f) infrastructure, whether situated in or outside
             Singapore;

        (g) records and information (including data) in any form;
             and

        (h) right;

“liability”, in relation to the transferor, means any liability, duty
   or obligation (whether actual or contingent, liquidated or
   unliquidated, and whether owed alone or jointly, or jointly
   and severally, with any other person) of the transferor on the
   eve of the transfer date;

“records”, in relation to the transferor, means registers, papers,
   documents, minutes, receipts, books of account and other
   records, however compiled, recorded or stored, of the
   transferor existing on the eve of the transfer date;

“right”, in relation to the transferor, means any right, power,
   privilege or immunity of the transferor on the eve of the
   transfer date;

“SkillsFuture Singapore Agency” or “SSG” means the public
   body of that name established by section 3 of the SkillsFuture
   Singapore Agency Act 2016 as in force before the date of
   commencement of section 73;

“SSG employee” means an individual who, on the eve of the
   transfer date, is an employee of the SSG;

“transfer date” means the date of commencement of this Part;

“transferor” means one of the following, as the case may be:

        (a) the SSG;

        (b) the WSG;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
60  NO. 17 OF 2026

      “Workforce Singapore Agency” or “WSG” means the public
         body of that name established by section 3 of the Workforce
         Singapore Agency Act 2003 as in force before the date of
         commencement of section 74;

      “WSG employee” means an individual who, on the eve of the
         transfer date, is an employee of the WSG.

Transfer of undertakings to Agency

 68.—(1) On the transfer date, the following assets and liabilities are
transferred to the Agency:

       (a) all assets and liabilities of the SSG;

       (b) all assets and liabilities of the WSG.

 (2) When any asset or liability of the transferor is transferred to the
Agency under subsection (1), the following provisions have effect:

       (a) the asset vests in the Agency without the need for any
            further conveyance, transfer, assignment or assurance;

       (b) the liability becomes the liability of the Agency;

       (c) all legal or other proceedings relating to that asset or
            liability that are pending immediately before the transfer
            date by or against the transferor (or a predecessor of the
            transferor) are taken to be proceedings pending by or
            against the Agency;

       (d) any legal or other proceedings relating to that asset or
            liability which could have been started immediately before
            the transfer date by or against the transferor (or a
            predecessor of the transferor) may be started by or
            against the Agency;

       (e) a judgment or order of a court or other tribunal obtained
            before the transfer date by or against the transferor (or a
            predecessor of the transferor) relating to that asset or
            liability becomes enforceable by or against the Agency;

        (f) any document in any legal or other proceedings relating to
            that asset or liability that has been served on or by the
            transferor (or a predecessor of the transferor) before the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   61

           transfer date is taken, where appropriate, to have been
           served on or by the Agency;

      (g) any act, matter or thing done or omitted to be done before
           the transfer date in relation to that asset or liability by, to or
           in respect of the transferor (or a predecessor of the
           transferor) is (to the extent to which that act, matter or
           thing has any force or effect) taken to have been done or
           omitted to be done by, to or in respect of the Agency;

      (h) a reference to the transferor (or a predecessor of the
           transferor) in any Act, any instrument made under any Act,
           any agreement or any document of any kind is taken to be
           or includes (to the extent to which the reference relates to
           that asset or liability) a reference to the Agency;

      (i) any agreement relating to that asset or liability and to
           which the transferor (or a predecessor of the transferor) is a
           party becomes enforceable by or against the Agency.

(3) The operation of this section does not —

      (a) constitute a breach of, or default under, any Act or other
           law, or any agreement, or otherwise a civil wrong or
           criminal wrong;

      (b) constitute a breach of any duty of confidence (whether
           arising by contract, in equity, by custom, or in any other
           way);

      (c) constitute a breach of any contractual provision
           prohibiting, restricting or regulating the assignment or
           transfer of assets or liabilities or the disclosure of any
           information;

      (d) terminate an agreement or obligation, or fulfil any
           condition that allows a person to terminate or otherwise
           releases a person from any agreement or obligation, or give
           rise to any right or remedy in respect of any agreement or
           obligation;

      (e) cause any contract or other instrument to be void or
           otherwise unenforceable;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
62  NO. 17 OF 2026

        (f) frustrate any contract;

       (g) release a surety or other obligor or obligee wholly or in part
            from an obligation; or

       (h) constitute an event of breach of, or default under, any
            contract or other instrument.

 (4) No attornment to the Agency by a lessee of the transferor is
required.

Transfer of employees, etc., to Agency

 69.—(1) On the transfer date, every SSG employee and every
WSG employee —

       (a) stops being an employee of the SSG or the WSG, as the
            case may be; and

       (b) is each transferred to the service, and becomes an
            employee, of the Agency on terms no less favourable
            than those enjoyed by the employee on the eve of the
            transfer date.

 (2) A certificate signed by the Minister certifying whether an
individual named in the certificate has been transferred to the service
of the Agency under subsection (1) is admissible in evidence in any
proceedings as proof of the matters stated in the certificate.

 (3) The transfer under subsection (1) of an SSG employee or a
WSG employee (as the case may be) to the service of the Agency —

       (a) does not interrupt continuity of that employee’s service;

       (b) does not constitute a retrenchment or redundancy of that
            employee’s employment by the transferor; and

       (c) does not entitle that employee to any compensation or
            other payment or benefit merely because he or she stops
            being employed by the transferor.

 (4) Nothing in this section prevents —

       (a) any of the terms and conditions of employment of an
            individual transferred to the service of the Agency under
            subsection (1) from being altered by or under any law,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   63

            award or agreement with effect from any time after the
            transfer date; and

       (b) an individual transferred to the service of the Agency under
            subsection (1) from resigning from that service any time
            after the transfer date, in accordance with the terms and
            conditions of his or her employment then applicable.

 (5) To avoid doubt, section 18A of the Employment Act 1968 does
not apply to the transfer under this Part of any SSG employee or any
WSG employee to the service of the Agency.

 (6) On the transfer date, every public officer or employee of any
other public body seconded to the SSG or the WSG, under either of
the following that is in force on the eve of the transfer date, continues
on secondment to the Agency:

       (a) an arrangement made by the Government;

       (b) an agreement or arrangement between the Government or
            that other public body and the SSG or the WSG, as the case
            may be.

General preservation of employment terms, etc.

 70.—(1) When an SSG employee or a WSG employee is
transferred to the service of the Agency under section 69(1) (called
in this section a transferred employee), the transferred employee’s
service with the Agency must be regarded for all purposes as having
been continuous with his or her service with the transferor
immediately before the transfer date.

 (2) On the transfer date —

       (a) a transferred employee retains all accrued rights as if his or
            her employment with the Agency were a continuation of
            employment with the transferor;

       (b) the liabilities of the transferor relating to the transferred
            employee’s accrued rights to annual, sick, maternity or
            other leave and superannuation become the liabilities of
            the Agency; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
64  NO. 17 OF 2026

       (c) a reference to the transferor in the contract of employment
            that had effect in relation to the transferred employee
            immediately before the transfer date is taken to be, or
            includes, a reference to the Agency.

 (3) Until the time the Agency draws up the terms and conditions of
employment for the transferred employee, the Agency is to be
regarded as employing the transferred employee on the same terms
and conditions of his or her employment with the transferor on the
eve of the transfer date.

 (4) Any term or condition of employment drawn up by the Agency
relating to the length of service of the transferred employee with the
Agency must recognise the length of service of that employee with
the transferor (including any previous service of that employee taken
to be service with the transferor) to be service with the Agency.

 (5) For any conduct of the transferred employee when he or she was
employed by the transferor which would have rendered that
employee liable to be reprimanded, reduced in rank, retired,
dismissed or otherwise punished by the transferor, the Agency
may —

       (a) start any disciplinary proceedings against that employee;

       (b) carry on and complete any disciplinary proceedings started
            by the transferor against that employee if those
            proceedings are pending on the eve of the transfer date; and

       (c) reprimand, reduce in rank, retire, dismiss or otherwise
            punish that employee as if that employee were not
            transferred.

 (6) Where, on the eve of the transfer date, any matter about the
conduct of the transferred employee during his or her employment
with the transferor concerned —

       (a) was in the course of being heard or investigated by a
            committee of the transferor acting under due authority; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   65

       (b) had been heard or investigated, but no order, ruling or
            direction had been made, by that committee,

that committee must complete the hearing or investigation and make
such order, ruling or direction as it could have made under the
authority vested in it before that date, and that order, ruling or
direction is to be regarded as an order, ruling or direction of the
Agency.

Transfer of records

 71. On the transfer date, the following records become the records
of the Agency:

       (a) all records of the SSG;

       (b) all records of the WSG.

Confirmation of transfers

 72.—(1) If any dispute arises —

       (a) as to whether an asset or a liability, or a record, is
            transferred under section 68 or 71; or

       (b) as to whether any, or part of any, contract or document
            relates to an asset or a liability, or a record, transferred
            under section 68 or 71,

the Finance Minister may determine the matter and must provide the
concerned parties with written notice of that determination.

 (2) The Finance Minister’s determination under subsection (1) is
final and binding on the transferor concerned and the Agency.

                                   PART 10
                                   REPEAL
Repeal of SkillsFuture Singapore Agency Act 2016
 73. Repeal the SkillsFuture Singapore Agency Act 2016.

Repeal of Workforce Singapore Agency Act 2003
 74. Repeal the Workforce Singapore Agency Act 2003.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
66  NO. 17 OF 2026

                                    PART 11

      CONSEQUENTIAL AND RELATED AMENDMENTS
                             TO OTHER ACTS

Consequential amendment to Enterprise Singapore Board
Act 2018

 75. In the Enterprise Singapore Board Act 2018, in section 5(1),
replace paragraph (g) with —

            “(g) to cooperate and collaborate with the Skills and
                  Workforce Development Agency established by
                  section 3 of the Skills and Workforce Development
                  Agency Act 2026 in the discharge of its functions
                  under that Act;”.

Consequential amendments to Income Tax Act 1947

 76. In the Income Tax Act 1947 —

       (a) in section 13(1)(zx), delete “Workforce Singapore’s”;

       (b) in section 14O(6), replace the definition of “accredited”
            with —

                  “ “accredited”, in relation to a course, means
                        accredited —

                                (a) by the Singapore Workforce
                                     Development Agency before
                                     4 October 2016;

                                (b) by the SkillsFuture Singapore
                                     Agency on or after 4 October 2016
                                     and before the date of
                                     commencement of section 73 of the
                                     Skills and Workforce Development
                                     Agency Act 2026; or

                                (c) by the Skills and Workforce
                                     Development Agency;”;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   67

       (c) in section 14ZG(5), in the definition of “eligible course”, in
            paragraph (a), after “SkillsFuture Singapore Agency”,
            insert “or the Skills and Workforce Development Agency”;

       (d) in section 14ZG(5), in the definition of “qualifying training
            expenditure”, after “SkillsFuture Singapore Agency”,
            insert “or the Skills and Workforce Development Agency”;

       (e) in section 14ZG(5), after the definition of “qualifying
            training expenditure”, insert —

                  “ “Skills and Workforce Development Agency”
                        means the Skills and Workforce Development
                        Agency established by section 3 of the Skills and
                        Workforce Development Agency Act 2026;”;

        (f) in section 14ZG(5), replace the definition of “SkillsFuture
            Singapore Agency” with —

                  “ “SkillsFuture Singapore Agency” means the
                        SkillsFuture Singapore Agency established by
                        section 3 of the SkillsFuture Singapore Agency
                        Act 2016 before the date of repeal of that Act.”;
                        and

       (g) in section 14ZG(6), replace “or a statutory board
            (including the SkillsFuture Singapore Agency)” with
            “, the SkillsFuture Singapore Agency, the Skills and
            Workforce Development Agency or any other statutory
            board”.

Consequential amendment to Institute of Technical Education
Act 1992

 77. In the Institute of Technical Education Act 1992, in section 5,
replace paragraph (c) with —

            “(c) cooperating and collaborating with the Skills and
                  Workforce Development Agency established by
                  section 3 of the Skills and Workforce Development
                  Agency Act 2026 in the discharge of its functions
                  under that Act.”.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
68  NO. 17 OF 2026

Consequential and related amendments to Private Education
Act 2009

 78. In the Private Education Act 2009 —

       (a) in section 2, replace the definition of “Agency” with —

                  “ “Agency” means the Skills and Workforce
                        Development Agency established by section 3
                        of the Skills and Workforce Development
                        Agency Act 2026;”;

       (b) in section 2, replace the definition of “Chief Executive”
            with —

                  “ “Chief Executive” has the meaning given by
                        section 2 of the Skills and Workforce
                        Development Agency Act 2026;”;

       (c) in section 2, after the definition of “private education
            institution”, insert —

                  “ “private education institution for adult learners”
                        means a private education institution —

                                (a) in which more than half of the
                                     students enrolled are 25 years of age
                                     or above, such enrolment to be
                                     determined at the frequency and in
                                     the manner prescribed; and

                                (b) that does not offer or provide any
                                     education that is normally for a
                                     person who is below 16 years of
                                     age;”;

       (d) in section 4(1), replace “SkillsFuture Singapore Agency
            Act 2016” with “Skills and Workforce Development
            Agency Act 2026”;

       (e) in section 4(2), in paragraph (c), delete “and” at the end;

        (f) in section 4(2), in paragraph (d), replace the full‑stop with
            “; and”;

       (g) in section 4(2), after paragraph (d), insert —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
   SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

   AGENCY                                                   69

                    “(e) to any direction given by the Minister as to
                          the performance by the Agency of its
                          functions under this Act and, in any
                          matter relating to private education
                          institutions for adult learners, to any
                          direction given by the Minister charged
                          with the responsibility for that matter.”; and

   (h) in section 5, replace “section 34 of the SkillsFuture
        Singapore Agency Act 2016” with “section 28 of the
        Skills and Workforce Development Agency Act 2026”.

Consequential amendments to Skills Development Levy
Act 1979

 79. In the Skills Development Levy Act 1979 —

       (a) in section 2, replace the definition of “Agency” with —

                  “ “Agency” means the Skills and Workforce
                        Development Agency established by section 3
                        of the Skills and Workforce Development
                        Agency Act 2026;”; and

       (b) in section 5(2)(ba), after “section 57D or 58 of the
            SkillsFuture Singapore Agency Act 2016”, insert “(as in
            force immediately before the date of commencement of
            section 73 of the Skills and Workforce Development
            Agency Act 2026) or section 51 or 58 of the Skills and
            Workforce Development Agency Act 2026”.

Consequential amendments to other Acts
 80.—(1) In the Accounting Standards Act 2007, in the Schedule —
       (a) replace item 59 with —

.  “59. Skills and Workforce Skills and Workforce Development

   Development Agency Agency Act 2026”; and

       (b) delete item 63.

 (2) In the Attorney‑General (Additional Functions) Act 2014, in the
Schedule, replace item 23 with —

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
70                       NO. 17 OF 2026

      “23. Skills and Workforce Development Agency”.
 (3) In the Central Provident Fund Act 1953, in the First Schedule, in
paragraph 6 —

       (a) delete item (11); and
       (b) replace item (65) with —

                  “(65) Skills and Workforce Development Agency.”.
 (4) In the Official Secrets Act 1935, in the Schedule —

       (a) delete item 7; and
       (b) replace item 28 with —

                  “28. Skills and Workforce Development Agency”.
 (5) In the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018, in the
First Schedule, in Part 1 —

       (a) replace item 46 with —

.   “46. Skills and Workforce Skills and Workforce Development

    Development Agency Agency Act 2026”; and

       (b) delete item 49.

 (6) In the Statutory Bodies and Government Companies (Protection
of Secrecy) Act 1983, in the Schedule, in Part 1 —

       (a) replace item 31 with —

.   “31. Skills and Workforce Skills and Workforce Development

    Development Agency Agency Act 2026”; and

       (b) delete item 33.

 (7) In the Statutory Corporations (Contributions to Consolidated
Fund) Act 1989, in the Schedule —

       (a) replace item 46 with —

.   “46. Skills and Workforce Skills and Workforce Development

    Development Agency Agency Act 2026”; and

    (b) delete item 49.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   71

                                   PART 12

           SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

Saving and transitional provisions arising from repeal of
SkillsFuture Singapore Agency Act 2016

 81.—(1) Any incentive, grant or loan given before the appointed
date by the SSG in the performance or exercise of its functions and
powers under the repealed Act is, as from that date, deemed to be an
incentive, grant or loan given by the Agency under this Act.

 (2) Any power —

       (a) of an authorised person to verify information under
            section 47 may be exercised in respect of any incentive,
            grant or loan given before the appointed date under the
            repealed Act as if it were an incentive, grant or loan given
            under this Act; and

       (b) of an inspector to conduct investigations under section 48
            may be exercised in respect of any offence committed or
            suspected of having been committed before the appointed
            date under the repealed Act.

 (3) Despite section 73, section 57D of the repealed Act continues to
apply on and after the appointed date to —

       (a) a person who is convicted (whether before, on or after the
            appointed date) of an offence under section 57C(1) of the
            repealed Act; and

       (b) the Agency, which —

               (i) may recover any amount due to the SSG under
                   section 57D(2) of the repealed Act as if it were a
                   judgment debt due to the Agency; and

              (ii) must pay the amount recovered in the manner set out
                   in section 57D(3) of the repealed Act, as if the
                   reference to the funds of the SSG and the general
                   moneys of the SSG were a reference to the funds of
                   the Agency and the general moneys of the Agency,
                   respectively.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
72  NO. 17 OF 2026

 (4) Where any advertisement is published or caused to be
published, or distributed or caused to be distributed, before the
appointed date, to which section 57F(1) of the repealed Act applies —

       (a) the Agency may give a direction under section 53(2) in
            accordance with section 53(3), (4) and (5) to the person
            who published or caused to be published, or distributed or
            caused to be distributed, that advertisement as if the person
            were a defaulting person, and the advertisement were an
            advertisement, mentioned in section 53(1);

       (b) any direction given by the SSG under section 57F(2) of the
            repealed Act to a defaulting person under that provision
            before the appointed date continues and is deemed to be a
            direction made under section 53(2), and the Agency may
            take any steps on or after that date in respect of the person
            who was given the direction, as if that person were a
            defaulting person under section 53; and

       (c) any notice given by the SSG under section 57F(3) of the
            repealed Act to a defaulting person under that provision
            before the appointed date continues and is deemed to be a
            notice given under section 53(3), and the Agency may
            decide under section 53(4) to give or not to give (or to
            modify) the direction as the Agency considers appropriate.

 (5) Where any course or programme fulfils the conditions in
section 57G(1) of the repealed Act before the appointed date —

       (a) the Agency may give a direction under section 54(2) in
            accordance with section 54(3), (4) and (5) to the person
            who was given an incentive, grant or loan in connection
            with the course or programme as if the person were a
            funding recipient, and the course or programme were a
            course or programme, mentioned in section 54(1);

       (b) any direction given by the SSG under section 57G(2) of the
            repealed Act to a funding recipient under that provision
            before the appointed date continues and is deemed to be a
            direction made under section 54(2), and the Agency may
            take any steps on or after that date in respect of the person

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

AGENCY                                                   73

            who was given the direction, as if that person were a
            funding recipient under section 54; and

       (c) any notice given by the SSG under section 57G(3) of the
            repealed Act to a funding recipient under that provision
            before the appointed date continues and is deemed to be a
            notice given under section 54(3), and the Agency may
            decide under section 54(4) to give or not to give (or to
            modify) the direction as the Agency considers appropriate.

 (6) An appeal to the Minister against a direction under section 57F
or 57G of the repealed Act —

       (a) may be commenced under section 55 if it is made within
            the time specified in section 55(2)(b); or

       (b) if the appeal was commenced before the appointed date
            under section 57H of the repealed Act, may be continued
            under section 55 as if it were commenced under that
            section.

 (7) Despite section 73, the Chief Executive or an officer of the
Agency authorised in writing by the Agency may compound any
offence under section 60 of the repealed Act which —

       (a) is allegedly committed before the appointed date; and

       (b) is, immediately before that date, prescribed as a
            compoundable offence for the purposes of section 60 of
            the repealed Act,

as if section 73 had not been enacted.

 (8) In this section and section 83 —

      “appointed date” means the date of commencement of
         section 73;

      “repealed Act” means the SkillsFuture Singapore Agency
         Act 2016 as in force immediately before the appointed date;

      “SkillsFuture Singapore Agency” or “SSG” means the public
         body of that name established by section 3 of the repealed
         Act.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
74  NO. 17 OF 2026

Saving and transitional provisions arising from repeal of
Workforce Singapore Agency Act 2003

 82.—(1) Any incentive, grant or loan given before the appointed
date by the WSG in the discharge or exercise of its functions, duties
and powers under the repealed Act is, as from that date, deemed to be
an incentive, grant or loan given by the Agency under this Act.

 (2) Any power of an authorised person to verify information under
section 47 may be exercised in respect of any incentive, grant or loan
given before the appointed date under the repealed Act as if it were an
incentive, grant or loan given under this Act.

 (3) In this section —

      “appointed date” means the date of commencement of
         section 74;

      “repealed Act” means the Workforce Singapore Agency
         Act 2003 as in force immediately before the appointed date;

      “Workforce Singapore Agency” or “WSG” means the public
         body of that name established by section 3 of the repealed
         Act.

Other saving and transitional provisions

 83.—(1) Anything done by the SSG before the appointed date
under —

       (a) the Private Education Act 2009 as in force immediately
            before that date; or

       (b) the Skills Development Levy Act 1979 as in force
            immediately before that date,

continues to be valid as from that date as if it were done by the
Agency under that respective Act.

 (2) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of any
provision of this Act, the Minister may, by regulations, prescribe any
additional provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on
the enactment of that provision that the Minister may consider
necessary or expedient.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
