THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                  PREVENTION OF HUMAN
                   TRAFFICKING ACT 2014

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                                                          2020 Ed.

Prevention of Human
Trafficking Act 2014

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

                        TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS

3. Trafficking in persons
4. Punishment for trafficking in persons
5. Abetment of trafficking in persons
6. Persons who receive payments in connection with exploitation

       of trafficked victims

                                        PART 3

                                  ENFORCEMENT

 7. Police officers and enforcement officers
 8. Enforcement powers
 9. Power to arrest without warrant
10. Arrest how made
11. No unnecessary restraint
12. Search of persons
13. Power to seize offensive weapons
14. Power on escape to pursue and arrest
15. Enforcement officers to be armed
16. Disposal of documents and articles
17. Obstruction of police officer or enforcement officer

                                          1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Prevention of Human

2020 Ed.  Trafficking Act 2014                                      2

          PART 4

          VICTIM PROTECTION AND ASSISTANCE

Section
   18. Protection of sexually-exploited trafficked victims
   19. Assistance to trafficked victims

                                        PART 5

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

20. False statements, information, etc.
21. Protection of informers
22. Consent of Public Prosecutor
23. Jurisdiction of Court
24. Rules

An Act to deter and punish trafficking in persons and to protect and
  assist trafficked persons.

                                                               [1 March 2015]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Prevention of Human Trafficking Act 2014.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “abduct”, in relation to an individual, means to compel by force,
         or induce by any deceitful means, the individual to go from
         any place;
      “abuse of the position of vulnerability”, in relation to an
         individual, means taking advantage of the vulnerable position
         the individual is placed in as a result of —
              (a) the individual entering or remaining in Singapore
                   illegally;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
   Prevention of Human

3  Trafficking Act 2014                                      2020 Ed.

   (b) the individual’s pregnancy;

   (c) the individual’s physical or mental illness, infirmity
       or disability; or

   (d) the impairment (permanently or temporarily) of the
        individual’s decision-making ability by reason of the
        individual’s physical or mental illness, infirmity or
        disability;

   “child” means an individual below 18 years of age;

   “coercion”, in relation to an individual, means the use of force or
      threat, whether violent or otherwise, against the individual or
      another individual, including —

   (a) any threat of harm to or physical restraint of the
        individual or the other individual;

   (b) any scheme, plan or pattern intended to cause the
        individual to believe that the failure to perform an act
        would result in serious harm to or physical restraint
        of the individual or the other individual; or

   (c) any abuse or threat related to the legal status of the
       individual or the other individual;

   “conjugal partner”, in relation to a trafficked victim at a given
      point in time, means the individual with whom the trafficked
      victim was in a relationship as if the individual were the
      trafficked victim’s spouse at that point in time;

   “debt bondage” means a status or condition arising from —

   (a) the pledging by a debtor of the personal services of
        the debtor or an individual under the debtor’s control,
        as security for a debt; and

   (b) the reasonable value of such services not being
        applied towards the discharge of the debt, or the
        length or nature of such services not being limited or
        defined, respectively;

   “document” has the meaning given by section 29 of the Penal
      Code 1871;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Prevention of Human

2020 Ed.  Trafficking Act 2014                                      4

“exploitation” means sexual exploitation, forced labour, slavery
   or any practice similar to slavery, servitude or the removal of
   an organ;

“Minister” means the Minister charged with the responsibility
   for home affairs;

“practice similar to slavery” includes debt bondage, serfdom or
   any servile form of marriage;

“premises” includes —

          (a) any building or structure, whether permanent or
               temporary;

          (b) any land, whether built on or not;

          (c) any place, whether open or enclosed, including any
              place situated underground or underwater;

          (d) any vehicle, train, vessel or aircraft; and

          (e) any part of the premises;

“prostitution” means the offering of an individual’s body for
   hire, whether for money or in kind, for the purpose of sexual
   penetration;

“public servant” has the meaning given by section 21 of the
   Penal Code 1871, and includes any person who is deemed
   under this Act or any other written law to be a public servant
   for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871;

“serfdom” means the condition or status of a tenant who is, by
   law, custom or agreement, bound to live and labour on land
   belonging to another person and to render any determinate
   service to that other person, whether for reward or not, and
   who is not free to change that condition or status;

“servile form of marriage” means any institution or practice in
   which —

          (a) a woman or female child, without the right to refuse,
               is promised or given in marriage on payment of
               consideration in money or in kind to her parent,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
   Prevention of Human

5  Trafficking Act 2014                                      2020 Ed.

   guardian, family or any other person or group of
   persons;

   (b) the husband of a woman or female child, or his family
        or clan, has the right to transfer her to another person,
        whether for value received or otherwise; or

   (c) a woman or female child, on the death of her
       husband, is liable to be inherited by another person;

   “servitude”, in relation to an individual, means any condition or
      obligation, not authorised by any written law, to work or
      render services from which the individual cannot escape or
      which the individual is not free to change;

   “sexual exploitation”, in relation to an individual, means the
      involving of the individual in prostitution, sexual servitude or
      the provision of any other form of sexual service, including
      the commission of any obscene or indecent act by the
      individual or the use of the individual in any audio or visual
      recording or representation of such act;

   “trafficked victim” means an individual against whom an
      offence under section 3 is committed, and includes an
      alleged victim of the offence.

                                    PART 2
                      TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS
Trafficking in persons
 3.—(1) Any person who recruits, transports, transfers, harbours or
receives an individual (other than a child) by means of —
       (a) the threat or use of force, or any other form of coercion;
       (b) abduction;
       (c) fraud or deception;
       (d) the abuse of power;
       (e) the abuse of the position of vulnerability of the individual;
            or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Prevention of Human

2020 Ed.  Trafficking Act 2014                                      6

          (f) the giving to, or the receipt by, another person having
              control over that individual of any money or other benefit
              to secure that other person’s consent,

for the purpose of the exploitation (whether in Singapore or
elsewhere) of the individual shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) Any person who recruits, transports, transfers, harbours or
receives a child for the purpose of the exploitation (whether in
Singapore or elsewhere) of the child shall be guilty of an offence.

 (3) In determining whether an offence has been committed under
this section, the following is irrelevant:

(a) in the case where the alleged victim of the offence is a
     child, whether the child, or the child’s parent or guardian,
     consented to the actual or intended exploitation;

(b) in any other case, whether the alleged victim of the offence
     consented to the actual or intended exploitation.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (1) or (2), it does not matter
whether the act of trafficking in persons described in that subsection
is done partly in and partly outside Singapore provided that the act, if
done wholly in Singapore, would constitute an offence under that
subsection.

Punishment for trafficking in persons

 4.—(1) Any person who is guilty of an offence under section 3,
upon conviction —

       (a) in the case of a first offence, shall be punished with a fine
            not exceeding $100,000 and with imprisonment for a term
            not exceeding 10 years, and shall be liable to caning not
            exceeding 6 strokes; and

       (b) in the case of a second or subsequent offence, shall be
            punished with a fine not exceeding $150,000, with
            imprisonment for a term not exceeding 15 years and
            shall be liable to caning not exceeding 9 strokes.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 17/08/2026]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
   Prevention of Human

7  Trafficking Act 2014                                      2020 Ed.

 (2) In determining the appropriate sentence for an offence under
section 3, the court may take into account the aggravating factors
relevant to the offence including the following:

   (a) the offence involved serious injury to or the death
        (including death by suicide) of the trafficked victim or
        another individual;

   (b) the trafficked victim was particularly vulnerable due to
        pregnancy, illness, infirmity, disability or any other reason,
        and the offender was aware of the trafficked victim’s
        particular vulnerability;

   (c) the trafficked victim was a child;

   (d) the offence exposed the trafficked victim to a
        life‑threatening illness;

   (e) the offence involved actual or threatened use of a weapon
       or drug;

   (f) the offender was a public servant;

   (g) the offender was the trafficked victim’s spouse or conjugal
        partner;

   (h) the offender was abusing a position of trust or authority in
        relation to the trafficked victim.

Abetment of trafficking in persons

 5.—(1) For the purposes of Chapter 5 of the Penal Code 1871, a
person abets the commission of an offence under section 3 if —

       (a) the person instructs another person to commit the offence;

       (b) the person provides or arranges any form of financing,
            transport, shelter, accommodation or any other facility
            with the intention of facilitating the commission of the
            offence; or

       (c) the person —

               (i) participates or assists in the recruitment, transport,
                   transfer, harbouring or receiving of an individual;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Prevention of Human

2020 Ed.  Trafficking Act 2014  8

          (ii) employs or assists in the employment of any of the
               means specified in section 3(1)(a) to (f) in respect of
               the individual; or

          (iii) does any act to promote or in furtherance of the
                actual or intended exploitation of the individual,

          (c) with the intention of facilitating the commission of the
              offence against the individual.

 (2) To avoid doubt, this section is without prejudice to the
generality of the term “abetment” under the Penal Code 1871.

Persons who receive payments in connection with exploitation
of trafficked victims

 6.—(1) Any person who knowingly receives any payment in
connection with the actual or intended exploitation in Singapore of
a trafficked victim shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) Any person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1),
upon conviction —

       (a) in the case of a first offence, shall be punished with a fine
            not exceeding $100,000 and with imprisonment for a term
            not exceeding 10 years, and shall be liable to caning not
            exceeding 6 strokes; and

       (b) in the case of a second or subsequent offence, shall be
            punished with a fine not exceeding $150,000, with
            imprisonment for a term not exceeding 15 years and
            shall be liable to caning not exceeding 9 strokes.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 17/08/2026]

                                    PART 3
                              ENFORCEMENT
Police officers and enforcement officers
 7.—(1) Nothing in this Part affects a police officer’s powers or
duties under the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.
 (2) Only the following officers are authorised to act as an
enforcement officer under this Part:

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
   Prevention of Human

9  Trafficking Act 2014                                      2020 Ed.

   (a) public officers appointed as employment inspectors under
        section 3(3) of the Employment of Foreign Manpower
        Act 1990;

   (b) public officers appointed as inspectors under section 20(1)
        of the Human Organ Transplant Act 1987;

   (c) public officers appointed by the Minister as enforcement
       officers for the purposes of this Act.

Enforcement powers

 8.—(1) A police officer or an enforcement officer may, for the
purposes of this Act, do all or any of the following:

       (a) without warrant, enter and search, by day or night, any
            premises if there is reasonable cause to believe that
            evidence of the commission of an offence under this Act
            can be found in the premises;

       (b) detain any person found within the premises referred to in
            paragraph (a) until the search of the premises is completed;

       (c) search any person found within the premises referred to in
            paragraph (a) who is reasonably believed to have any
            document or article relevant to any investigation into an
            offence under this Act;

       (d) require any person who is reasonably believed to have any
            document (including any document of identity or travel
            document), article or information relevant to any
            investigation into an offence under this Act, to produce
            such document or article or give such information;

       (e) take possession of, or take any extract from or copy of, any
            document or article relevant to any investigation into an
            offence under this Act that is found in any premises or on
            any person searched, or is produced, under this section;

        (f) examine orally any person who appears to be acquainted
            with any of the facts or circumstances of a suspected
            offence under this Act, and reduce into writing the answer
            given or statement made by that person who is bound to
            state truly the facts and circumstances with which that

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Prevention of Human

2020 Ed.  Trafficking Act 2014                                      10

          person is acquainted; and the statement made by that
          person must be read over to that person and must, after
          correction, be signed by that person;

(g) require by written order the attendance before the officer of
     any person, being within the limits of Singapore, who,
     from information given or otherwise, appears to be
     acquainted with any of the facts or circumstances of a
     suspected offence under this Act; and that person must
     attend as required and if that person fails to do so, report
     the failure to a Magistrate who may then issue a warrant to
     secure the attendance of that person as required by the
     order;

(h) take such photographs, or audio or video recordings, as
     necessary of the premises referred to in paragraph (a)
     (including any person or thing in the premises) and persons
     reasonably believed to be acquainted with the facts or
     circumstances relevant to a suspected offence under this
     Act;

          (i) require an employer to produce all or any of the employer’s
              employees for the purposes of any investigation into an
              offence under this Act.

 (2) A police officer or an enforcement officer may require the
owner or occupier of any premises referred to in subsection (1)(a), the
owner’s or occupier’s agent or any person found in the premises to
furnish such means required by the officer as necessary for the
officer’s exercise of any power under this section.

 (3) If entry to any premises cannot be obtained under
subsection (1)(a), a police officer or an enforcement officer may,
after stating the officer’s authority and purpose and demanding entry
into the premises —

(a) break open any outer or inner door or window leading to
     the premises;

(b) forcibly enter the premises; or

          (c) remove by force any obstruction to such entry.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
    Prevention of Human

11  Trafficking Act 2014                                      2020 Ed.

(4) Any person who —

    (a) intentionally offers any resistance to or wilfully delays a
         police officer or an enforcement officer in the exercise of
         any power under this section;

    (b) fails to comply with the requisition of a police officer or an
         enforcement officer under this section;

    (c) fails to produce to a police officer or an enforcement
        officer any document or article which the person is
        required under this section to produce;

    (d) wilfully withholds from a police officer or an enforcement
         officer any information as to who is the owner or occupier
         of any premises, who is the principal contractor or who is
         the employer of the person; or

    (e) conceals or prevents, or attempts to conceal or prevent,
        another person from appearing before or being examined
        by a police officer or an enforcement officer under this
        section,

is deemed to wilfully obstruct the police officer or enforcement
officer for the purpose of section 17.

 (5) In this section, a reference to an offence under this Act includes
a reference to an abetment of, or a conspiracy or an attempt to
commit, the offence.

Power to arrest without warrant

 9.—(1) Any police officer or enforcement officer may arrest
without warrant any person whom the officer reasonably suspects
is committing or has committed an offence under Part 2.

 (2) A police officer or an enforcement officer making an arrest
without warrant must, without unnecessary delay and subject to
subsection (4), take or send the person arrested before a Magistrate’s
Court.

 (3) A police officer or an enforcement officer must not detain in
custody a person arrested without warrant for longer than is
reasonable in the circumstances, and such period must not exceed

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Prevention of Human

2020 Ed.  Trafficking Act 2014                                      12

48 hours exclusive of the time necessary for the journey from the
place of arrest to the Magistrate’s Court.

 (4) Any person who has been arrested may be released on bail, or on
the person’s own bond, by a police officer or an enforcement officer.

 (5) The provisions of Division 5 of Part 6 of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010 apply to any bail or bond granted under this section; and
for this purpose, any reference to “officer”, “police officer” or “police
officer of or above the rank of sergeant” in those provisions is to be
read to include an enforcement officer.

 (6) In this section, a reference to an offence under Part 2 includes a
reference to an abetment of, or a conspiracy or an attempt to commit,
the offence.

Arrest how made

 10.—(1) A police officer or an enforcement officer making an
arrest under this Part must touch or confine the body of the person to
be arrested unless the person submits to arrest by word or action.

 (2) If the person forcibly resists or tries to evade arrest, the officer
may use all means necessary to effect the arrest.

No unnecessary restraint

 11.—(1) A person who is arrested under this Part must not be
subjected to more restraint than is necessary to prevent the person’s
escape.

 (2) Handcuffs or any similar means of restraint may be used on the
person arrested to prevent the person from —

       (a) inflicting any bodily self-injury or injury to others;

       (b) damaging any property;

       (c) creating any disturbance; or

       (d) escaping from custody.

 (3) The handcuffs or similar means of restraint must not be used on
the person arrested for the purpose of punishment.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                   Prevention of Human

13                 Trafficking Act 2014                       2020 Ed.

Search of persons

 12.—(1) A police officer or an enforcement officer making an
arrest under this Part may search the person arrested and take
possession of any document or article found on the person which the
officer reasonably believes to be connected to the offence for which
the person is arrested.

 (2) Where a person is searched under this section or
section 8(1)(c) —

    (a) the search must be made by a police officer or an
         enforcement officer of the same sex as the person, with
         strict regard to decency; and

    (b) the police officer or enforcement officer must not take into
         possession the person’s necessary wearing apparel.

Power to seize offensive weapons

 13. A police officer or an enforcement officer making any arrest
under this Part may take from the person arrested any offensive
weapons found on the person.

Power on escape to pursue and arrest

 14. If a person arrested under this Part escapes or is rescued from
lawful custody, the police officer or enforcement officer from whose
custody that person escaped or was rescued may immediately pursue
and arrest that person in any place within Singapore and deal with that
person as the officer might have done on the original arrest.

Enforcement officers to be armed

 15. Every enforcement officer must be provided with such batons
and accoutrements as may be necessary for the effective discharge of
the enforcement officer’s duties.

Disposal of documents and articles

 16.—(1) Any document or article that a police officer or an
enforcement officer takes possession of under this Part must —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Prevention of Human

2020 Ed.  Trafficking Act 2014                                      14

(a) where the document or article is produced in any criminal
     trial, be dealt with in accordance with section 364 of the
     Criminal Procedure Code 2010; and

(b) in any other case —

          (i) be returned to the owner; or

          (ii) if the owner is not known, be reported to a
               Magistrate.

 (2) Where the report of any document or article is made to a
Magistrate under subsection (1)(b)(ii), the Magistrate may order the
document or article —

(a) to be forfeited; or

(b) to be disposed of in such manner as the Magistrate thinks
     fit.

 (3) Nothing in this section affects any right to retain or dispose of
property which may exist in law apart from this section.

Obstruction of police officer or enforcement officer

 17. Any person who wilfully obstructs the lawful exercise by a
police officer or an enforcement officer of any of the officer’s powers
under this Part shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                    PART 4

             VICTIM PROTECTION AND ASSISTANCE

Protection of sexually-exploited trafficked victims

 18.—(1) Where any person is charged with or convicted of an
offence under Part 2 involving the sexual exploitation of a trafficked
victim, the court hearing any matter or proceedings in relation to the
charge or conviction —

       (a) in the case where the trafficked victim is a child, must hear
            the matter or proceedings in private; and

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
    Prevention of Human

15  Trafficking Act 2014                                      2020 Ed.

       (b) in any other case, may order that the matter or proceedings
            (or any part of the matter or proceedings) be heard in
            private.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2) No person may, in connection with any matter or proceedings
mentioned in subsection (1) —

    (a) publish the name, address or photograph, or any other thing
         which is likely to lead to the identification, of the trafficked
         victim;

    (b) publish the name, address or photograph of any witness, or
         any evidence given by the witness, in the matter or
         proceedings, or any other thing relating to the witness,
         which is likely to lead to the identification of the trafficked
         victim; or

    (c) do any other act which is likely to lead to the identification
        of the trafficked victim.

 (3) The prohibition under subsection (2) applies regardless of
whether the matter or proceedings is required or ordered to be heard
in private under subsection (1).

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (5) Nothing in this section affects a court’s powers under section 7
of the State Courts Act 1970 or section 8 of the Supreme Court of
Judicature Act 1969.

 (6) In this section, a reference to an offence under Part 2 includes a
reference to an abetment of, or a conspiracy or an attempt to commit,
the offence.

Assistance to trafficked victims

 19.—(1) The Director‑General of Social Welfare may provide to a
trafficked victim such assistance as the Director‑General of Social
Welfare considers practicable and necessary in the particular
circumstances of the case, including —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Prevention of Human

2020 Ed.  Trafficking Act 2014                                      16

(a) temporary shelter; and

      (b) counselling services.                                     [30/2019]
(2) The Director‑General of Social Welfare may —

(a) appoint any public officer; or

(b) with the approval of the Minister charged with the
     responsibility for social support services, authorise in
     writing any other person,

to perform the functions of the Director‑General of Social Welfare
under subsection (1), subject to such conditions and limitations as the
Director‑General of Social Welfare may specify.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (3) To avoid doubt, any appointment or authorisation under
subsection (2) does not restrict or prevent the Director‑General of
Social Welfare from exercising his or her function under
subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (4) Any person authorised under subsection (2)(b) is deemed to be a
public servant within the meaning of the Penal Code 1871.

                                    PART 5

                             MISCELLANEOUS

False statements, information, etc.

 20. Any person who, being required to make any statement or
furnish any information or document under this Act —

       (a) makes any statement or furnishes any information or
            document which is false or misleading in a material
            particular; and

       (b) knows or ought reasonably to know that, or is reckless as to
            whether, it is false or misleading in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
    Prevention of Human

17  Trafficking Act 2014                                      2020 Ed.

Protection of informers

 21.—(1) Except as provided in this section, no complaint as to an
offence under Part 2 is to be admitted in evidence in any civil or
criminal proceedings, and no witness in the proceedings is to be
obliged or permitted to disclose the name or address of any informer
in respect of the offence, or state any matter which might lead to the
discovery of the informer.

 (2) If any article or document which is in evidence or liable to
inspection in the civil or criminal proceedings contains any thing that
names or describes the informer or is likely to lead to the discovery of
the informer, the court hearing the proceedings must cause that thing
to be concealed from view or to be obliterated so far as may be
necessary to protect the informer from discovery.

 (3) A court may order the production of a complaint, or require or
permit the full disclosure concerning an informer, in respect of an
offence under Part 2, if —

    (a) in any proceedings for the offence, the court, after full
         inquiry into the case, is of the opinion that the informer
         wilfully made a material statement which the informer
         knew or believed to be false or did not believe to be true; or

    (b) in any other proceedings, the court is of the opinion that
         justice cannot be fully done between the parties in the
         proceedings without the discovery of the informer.

 (4) In this section, a reference to an offence under Part 2 includes a
reference to an abetment of, or a conspiracy or an attempt to commit,
the offence.

Consent of Public Prosecutor

 22. A prosecution under this Act must not be instituted except by or
with the consent of the Public Prosecutor.

Jurisdiction of Court

 23.—(1) Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Prevention of Human

2020 Ed.  Trafficking Act 2014                                      18

offence under this Act and has the power to impose the full penalty or
punishment in respect of the offence.

 (2) In this section, a reference to an offence under this Act includes
a reference to an abetment of, or a conspiracy or an attempt to
commit, the offence.

Rules

 24. The Minister may make rules for carrying out the purposes and
provisions of this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                 LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

                PREVENTION OF HUMAN
                 TRAFFICKING ACT 2014

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 45 of 2014 — Prevention of Human Trafficking Act 2014

Bill            : 39/2014

First Reading   : 7 October 2014

Second and Third Readings : 3 November 2014

Commencement    : 1 March 2015

2. Act 30 of 2019 — Children and Young Persons (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 70 of the above Act)

Bill            : 22/2019

First Reading   : 5 August 2019

Second Reading  : 3 September 2019

Third Reading   : 4 September 2019

Commencement    : 1 July 2020 (section 70)

3. 2020 Revised Edition — Prevention of Human
                                    Trafficking Act 2014

Operation       : 31 December 2021

4. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
   (Amendments made by section 184 of the above Act)

Bill            : 18/2021

First Reading   : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement    : 1 April 2022

5. Act 21 of 2025 — Criminal Law (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2025

Bill            : 15/2025

First Reading   : 14 October 2025

Second and Third Readings : 4 November 2025

Commencement    : 17 August 2026

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
.                                 ii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
  COMPARATIVE TABLE

PREVENTION OF HUMAN
 TRAFFICKING ACT 2014

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

2020 Ed.                            Act 45 of 2014

[Omitted as having had effect]  25

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
