THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                 BUSINESS TRUSTS ACT 2004

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                                                         2020 Ed.

Business Trusts Act 2004

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

                 REGISTRATION OF BUSINESS TRUSTS

3. Application for registration
4. Registration of business trusts
5. Register and notification of change in particulars

                                        PART 3

                              TRUSTEE‑MANAGER

                   Division 1 — Responsibilities and powers

 6. Trustee‑manager to be company and not to carry on any other
         business

 7. Secretary
 8. Trustee‑manager to operate registered business trust and power

         to appoint agents
 9. Use of information and advice
10. Duties of trustee‑manager
11. Duties of directors, officers and agents of trustee‑manager
12. Disclosure of interests in transactions, property, offices, etc.
13. Disclosure and register of directors’ and chief executive officer’s

         interests
14. Composition of board
15. Audit committees
16. Acquisition of interest in registered business trust by

         trustee‑manager

                                         1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                          2

Section

   17. Liquidator of trustee‑manager entitled to exercise indemnity
            rights

          Division 2 — Change of trustee‑manager

18. Changes to take effect upon date of appointment
19. Resignation of trustee‑manager
20. Removal of trustee-manager by unitholders
21. Appointment of temporary trustee‑manager by court
22. Temporary trustee‑manager to take steps for appointment of new

         trustee‑manager

          Division 3 — Consequences of change of trustee‑manager

23. Resigning trustee‑manager to hand over books and provide
         reasonable assistance

24. Rights, obligations and liabilities of resigning trustee‑manager
25. Effect of change of trustee‑manager on documents, etc., to

         which resigning trustee‑manager is a party

          Division 4 — Written directions

26. Power of Authority to issue directions to trustee‑manager or
         temporary trustee‑manager

          Division 5 — Indemnification

27.       Provisions protecting officers of trustee-manager from liability
27A.      Third party indemnity
27B.      Exception for expenditure on defending proceedings, etc.
27C.      Exception for expenditure in connection with regulatory action
          or investigation

                                        PART 4

                                    TRUST DEED

28. Contents of trust deed
29. Liability of trustee‑managers
30. Trust deed to be legally enforceable
31. Change of trust deed

                                        PART 5
                                   UNITHOLDERS

32. Limitation of liability of unitholders
33. Distributions to unitholders

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
3        Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

Section  Creditors of unitholders to have no rights to obtain possession of
   34.   trust property
         Rights of unitholders to distribution
   35.   Approval of unitholders required for issue of units by
   36.   trustee‑manager
         [Repealed]
   37.   [Repealed]
   38.   [Repealed]
   39.

                                           PART 6

                       CIVIL LIABILITY AND TAKE-OVERS

   40. Civil liability of trustee‑managers to unitholders
   40A. Power to acquire units of unitholders dissenting from

            arrangement or contract approved by 90% majority
   40B. Joint offers
   40C. Effect of impossibility, etc., of communicating or accepting offer

            made under arrangement or contract
   41. Remedies in cases of oppression or injustice
   42. Derivative or representative actions
   43. Evidence of unitholders’ approval not decisive — court approval

            to discontinue action under section 42

                                           PART 7

              WINDING UP OF REGISTERED BUSINESS TRUST

   44. Winding up under provision of trust deed
   45. Winding up at direction of unitholders
   46. Winding up ordered by court
   47. Winding up of registered business trust
   48. Court may make other orders for winding up
   49. Unclaimed money to be paid to Official Receiver
   50. Responsibility for fraudulent trading

                                           PART 8
                                   DEREGISTRATION

   51. Voluntary deregistration by trustee‑manager
   52. Power of Authority to deregister defunct business trust

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                          4

          PART 9

          MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION

          Division 1 — Meetings and proceedings

Section   Arrangements for meetings
          Annual general meeting
   52R.   Convening of extraordinary general meeting on requisition
   53.    Calling of meetings
   54.    Provision in trust deed as to right to demand poll
   55.    Quorum, chairperson, voting, etc., at meetings
   56.    Voting rights in respect of units in registered business trusts
   57.    Unitholder’s rights at meetings
   58.    Proxies
   59.    Power of court to order meeting
   60.    Circulation of unitholders’ resolutions, etc.
   61.    Special resolutions
   62.    Passing of resolutions by written means
   63.    Requirements for passing of resolutions by written means
   63A.   Where directors seek agreement to resolution by written means
   63B.   Unitholders may require general meeting for resolution
   63C.   Period for agreeing to written resolution
   63D.   Duty of trustee-manager of unlisted registered business trust to
   63E.   notify unitholders that resolution passed by written means
   63F.   Recording of resolutions passed by written means
          Resolutions requiring special notice
   63G.   Registration and copies of certain resolutions
   64.    Resolutions at adjourned meetings
   65.    Minutes of proceedings
   66.    Inspection of minute books
   67.
   68.

          Division 2 — Registers

69. Register of unitholders
70. Place at which register is kept
71. Consequences of default by agent
72. Power of court to rectify register
73. Limitation of liability of trustee, etc., registered as holder of

         units

          Division 3 — Annual Return

74. Annual returns and information

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
5        Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

         PART 10

         ACCOUNTS, AUDIT AND DISCLOSURE

         Division 1 — Accounts

Section  Accounting records and systems of control
   75.   Accounts and directors’ report
   76.   Relief from requirements as to form and content of accounts and
   77.   reports
         Unitholders of registered business trust entitled to balance sheet,
   78.   etc.
         Provision of summary financial statement to unitholders
   79.   Penalty
   80.

         Division 2 — Audit

   81. Auditors
   82. Appointment of auditor
   83. Auditors’ remuneration
   84. Powers and duties of auditors as to reports on accounts
   85. Auditors and other persons to enjoy qualified privilege in certain

            circumstances
   85A. Provisions indemnifying auditors

         Division 3 — Disclosure

   86. Certification by chief executive officer and board of directors of
            trustee‑manager

   87. Disclosure of policies and practices

                                           PART 11

                                          APPEALS

   88. Appeals to Minister
   89. Appeal Advisory Committees
   90. Disclosure of information
   91. Regulations for purposes of this Part

                                          PART 12

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   91A. Technological disruptions, etc., in meetings
   92. Electronic transmission of notices of meetings
   93. Electronic transmission of documents

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                            6

Section   Trustees Act 1967 not to apply to registered business trusts
          Non-applicability of rules relating to perpetuities, accumulations
   94.    and inalienability of property to registered business trusts
   95.    Opportunity to be heard
          Appointment of assistants
   96.    Codes, guidelines, etc., issued by Authority
   97.    Translation of instruments
   98.    Right of Authority and unitholders to apply to court for order
   99.    Power of court to make certain orders
  100.    Court may compel compliance
  101.    Power of Minister to appoint inspector
  102.    Injunctions
  103.    Power of court to grant relief
  104.    Jurisdiction of court
  105.    Duty not to provide false information to Authority
  106.    False and misleading statement
  107.    Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
  108.    General penalties
  109.    Composition of offences
  110.    General exemption
  111.    Amendment of Schedule
  112.    Regulations
  113.    The Schedule — Types of trusts that are not regarded as
  114.
                                business trusts for purposes of Act

An Act relating to the registration and regulation of business trusts
  and matters connected therewith.

                                                            [12 October 2004]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Business Trusts Act 2004.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
7               Business Trusts Act 2004                    2020 Ed.

Interpretation

   2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

   “accounting corporation” —

   (a) has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
        Accountants Act 2004; and

           (b) includes a company deemed to be an accounting
                corporation under that Act;

                                                                          [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

   “accounting entity” means a public accountant, an accounting
      corporation, an accounting firm or an accounting limited
      liability partnership;

                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

   “accounting firm” —

   (a) has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
        Accountants Act 2004; and

           (b) includes a firm deemed to be an accounting firm
                under that Act;

                                                                          [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

   “accounting limited liability partnership” has the meaning given
      by section 2(1) of the Accountants Act 2004;

                                                                          [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

   “accounting records”, in relation to a registered business trust,
      includes such working papers and other documents as are
      necessary to explain the methods and calculations by which
      accounts of the registered business trust are made up;

   “accounts” means profit and loss accounts, balance sheets and
      cash flow statements, and includes notes (other than auditors’
      reports or directors’ reports) attached to or intended to be
      read with any of those profit and loss accounts, balance sheets
      or cash flow statements;

   “advocate and solicitor” means an advocate and solicitor of the
      Supreme Court or a foreign lawyer as defined in section 2(1)
      of the Legal Profession Act 1966;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 8

“approved exchange” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of
   the Securities and Futures Act 2001;

“audit committee”, in relation to a registered business trust,
   means the audit committee of the trustee‑manager of a
   registered business trust established in accordance with
   section 15;

“Authority” means the Monetary Authority of Singapore
   established under section 3 of the Monetary Authority of
   Singapore Act 1970;

“book” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Securities
   and Futures Act 2001;

“business”, in relation to a registered business trust, means the
   business relating to the trust property of the registered
   business trust and managed and operated by the
   trustee‑manager of the registered business trust in its
   capacity as trustee‑manager of the registered business trust;

“business trust” means —

          (a) a trust that is established in respect of any property
               and that has the following characteristics:

          (i) the purpose or effect, or purported purpose or
              effect, of the trust is to enable the unitholders
              (whether by acquiring any right, interest, title
              or benefit in the property or any part of the
              property or otherwise) to participate in or
              receive profits, income or other payments or
              returns arising from the management of the
              property or management or operation of a
              business;

          (ii) the unitholders of the trust do not have
               day‑to‑day control over the management of
               the property, whether or not they have the right
               to be consulted or to give directions in respect
               of such management;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
9  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

   (iii) the property subject to the trust is managed as a
         whole by a trustee or by another person on
         behalf of the trustee;

   (iv) the contributions of the unitholders and the
        profits or income from which payments are to
        be made to them are pooled; and

   (v) either —

   (A) the units in the trust that are issued are
        exclusively or primarily non-redeemable;
        or

   (B) the trust invests only in real estate and
        real estate-related assets specified by the
        Authority in the Code on Collective
        Investment Schemes mentioned in
        section 284 of the Securities and
        Futures Act 2001 and is listed on an
        approved exchange; or

   (b) a class or description of trust that is declared by the
        Authority, by notice published in the Gazette, to be a
        business trust for the purposes of this Act,

   but does not include the types of trusts specified in
   the Schedule;

   “chief executive officer”, in relation to the trustee-manager of a
      registered business trust, means any one or more persons, by
      whatever name described, who —

   (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
        arrangement with, the trustee-manager of the
        registered business trust; and

   (b) is principally responsible for the management and
        conduct of the business of the trustee-manager of the
        registered business trust, or part of the business of the
        trustee-manager, as the case may be;

                                                              [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 10

“company” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“corporation” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“creditor”, in relation to a registered business trust, means a
   creditor of the trustee‑manager of the registered business
   trust where the liability owing to the creditor was incurred by
   the trustee‑manager on behalf of the registered business trust;

“debenture” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
   Securities and Futures Act 2001 and, in relation to a
   registered business trust, means a debenture issued by the
   trustee‑manager of the registered business trust in its capacity
   as trustee‑manager of the registered business trust;

“deed” means any deed which creates a trust or provides for the
   governance of the affairs of the trust and the conduct of its
   business and includes any instrument amending or affecting
   the deed;

“derivative”, in relation to a unit in a business trust, means any
   right or interest, whether legal or equitable, in the unit in the
   business trust, by whatever name called, and includes any
   option to acquire any such right or interest in the unit in the
   business trust;

“director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“document” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“electronic communication” has the meaning given by
   section 4(1) of the Companies Act 1967;

“exempt private company” has the meaning given by
   section 4(1) of the Companies Act 1967;

“expert” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“financial year”, in relation to a registered business trust, means
   the period in respect of which any profit and loss account of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
11  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

    the registered business trust laid before unitholders of the
    registered business trust in general meeting is made up,
    whether that period is a year or not;

    “liabilities”, in relation to a registered business trust, means the
       liabilities incurred by the trustee‑manager of the registered
       business trust on behalf of the registered business trust;

    “licensed insolvency practitioner” has the meaning given by
       section 2(1) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
       Act 2018;

    “limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by
       section 4(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

                                                                           [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

    “liquidator”, in relation to a registered business trust, means the
       person appointed under section 48(1) to take responsibility
       for winding up the registered business trust or the Official
       Receiver when acting as liquidator of the registered business
       trust;

    “listed”, in relation to a registered business trust, means a
       registered business trust that has been admitted to the official
       list of an approved exchange in Singapore and has not been
       removed from that official list;

                                                                           [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

    “listing rules” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
       Securities and Futures Act 2001;

    “officer” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
       Companies Act 1967;

    “Official Receiver” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
       Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018;

    “profit or loss”, in relation to a registered business trust, means
       the profit or loss resulting from operations of that registered
       business trust;

    “public accountant” means a person who is registered or deemed
       to be registered under the Accountants Act 2004 as a public
       accountant;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 12

“registered business trust” means a business trust that is
   registered by the Authority under section 4(1);

“related corporation” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of
   the Companies Act 1967;

“replacement trustee‑manager” means a company that has
   consented in writing to its election by the unitholders of a
   registered business trust to replace the resigning
   trustee‑manager or temporary trustee‑manager (as the case
   may be) of the registered business trust;

“resigning trustee‑manager” means the trustee‑manager of a
   registered business trust that, in accordance with this Act,
   proposes to resign, is removed or has resigned from the
   position of trustee‑manager of the registered business trust;

“substantial shareholder” means a person who has a substantial
   shareholding in a company in accordance with section 81 of
   the Companies Act 1967;

“temporary trustee‑manager” means a company that has been
   appointed as the temporary trustee‑manager of a registered
   business trust under section 21;

“trust property”, in relation to a business trust, means all
   property and rights of any kind whatsoever which are held on
   trust for the unitholders of the business trust, in accordance
   with the terms of the trust deed, including —

          (a) contributions of money or any other assets to the
               business trust;

          (b) property that forms part of the assets of the business
               trust under the provisions of this Act;

          (c) property arising in relation to any contract,
              agreement or arrangement entered into by or on
              behalf of the trustee in its capacity as trustee of the
              business trust;

          (d) property arising in relation to any claims or rights
               held by or on behalf of the trustee in its capacity as
               trustee of the business trust;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
13  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

    (e) proceeds from money borrowed or raised by the
        trustee of the business trust for the purposes of the
        business trust;

    (f) property acquired, directly or indirectly, with the
         contributions or money mentioned in paragraph (a),
         (b), (c), (d) or (e) or with the proceeds thereof; and

                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

    (g) profits, income and property derived, directly or
         indirectly, from contributions, money or property
         mentioned in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e);

    “trustee‑manager”, in relation to a registered business trust,
       includes a replacement trustee‑manager and temporary
       trustee‑manager;

    “unit”, in relation to a business trust, means a share in the
       beneficial ownership in the trust property of the business
       trust;

    “unitholder” means a person who holds units in a business trust;

                                                                      [2/2009; 10/2013; 4/2017; 40/2018]

                                                                           [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

    “unlisted registered business trust”, for the purposes of
       sections 63A to 63G, means a registered business trust the
       units of which are not listed for quotation or quoted on an
       approved exchange in Singapore or any securities exchange
       outside Singapore;

                                                                           [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

    “VCC” or variable capital company has the meaning given by
       section 2(1) of the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018.

                                                                           [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 14

                              PART 2

          REGISTRATION OF BUSINESS TRUSTS

Application for registration

 3.—(1) The proposed trustee‑manager of a business trust may
apply to register the business trust by lodging an application with the
Authority in such form and manner as the Authority may prescribe.

 (2) An application made under subsection (1) must be
accompanied —

(a) by such information or record as the Authority may
     require; and

(b) by a prescribed application fee which is non‑refundable
     and must be paid in such manner as the Authority may
     specify.

Registration of business trusts

 4.—(1) The Authority may, on an application lodged with it by the
proposed trustee‑manager of a business trust in accordance with
section 3, register the business trust.

 (2) The Authority may refuse an application to register a business
trust if —

       (a) the Authority is not satisfied that the application lodged has
            complied with section 3;

       (b) the Authority is not satisfied that the proposed
            trustee‑manager of the business trust is a company and
            not an exempt private company;

       (c) the Authority is not satisfied that the proposed
            trustee‑manager does not carry on any business other
            than the business of management and operation of the
            business trust in respect of which the application has been
            lodged;

       (d) the Authority is not satisfied that the proposed
            trustee‑manager has —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
15  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

    (i) complied with sections 14(1), 15(1), 28(1) and 30(1)
        (as modified by subsection (6) or pursuant to
        subsection (7)); and

    (ii) satisfied any other criteria that the Authority may
         prescribe;

    (e) the proposed trustee‑manager or any of its substantial
        shareholders is in the course of being wound up or
        otherwise dissolved, whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

    (f) a receiver, a receiver and manager, a judicial manager or an
        equivalent person has been appointed, whether in
        Singapore or elsewhere, in relation to or in respect of
        any property of the proposed trustee‑manager or any of its
        substantial shareholders;

    (g) the proposed trustee‑manager or any of its substantial
         shareholders has, whether in Singapore or elsewhere,
         entered into a compromise or scheme of arrangement with
         its creditors, being a compromise or scheme of
         arrangement that is still in operation;

    (h) an enforcement order against the proposed
         trustee‑manager or any of its substantial shareholders in
         respect of a judgment debt has been returned unsatisfied in
         whole or in part;

                                                                        [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

    (i) the proposed trustee‑manager or any of its substantial
         shareholders or officers —

    (i) has been convicted, whether in Singapore or
        elsewhere, of an offence involving fraud or
        dishonesty or the conviction for which involved a
        finding that it, he or she acted fraudulently or
        dishonestly; or

    (ii) has been convicted of an offence under this Act; or

    (j) the Authority is of the opinion that it would be contrary to
        the public interest to register the business trust.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 16

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), the Authority must not refuse an
application to register a business trust under subsection (1) without
giving the proposed trustee‑manager of the business trust an
opportunity to be heard.

 (4) The Authority may refuse an application to register a business
trust on any of the following grounds without giving the proposed
trustee‑manager of the business trust an opportunity to be heard:

(a) the proposed trustee‑manager is in the course of being
     wound up or otherwise dissolved, whether in Singapore or
     elsewhere;

(b) a receiver, a receiver and manager, a judicial manager or an
     equivalent person has been appointed, whether in
     Singapore or elsewhere, in relation to or in respect of
     any property of the proposed trustee‑manager;

          (c) the proposed trustee‑manager has been convicted, whether
              in Singapore or elsewhere, of an offence involving fraud or
              dishonesty or the conviction for which involved a finding
              that it had acted fraudulently or dishonestly.

 (5) The proposed trustee‑manager of any business trust who is
aggrieved by the refusal of the Authority to register the business trust
under subsection (2) may, within 30 days after it is notified of the
decision, appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (6) For the purpose of determining whether subsection (2) is
satisfied in relation to the business trust —

(a) references in Division 1 of Part 3 and Part 4 to a registered
     business trust is to be read as including a reference to the
     business trust mentioned in subsection (1); and

(b) references in Division 1 of Part 3 and Part 4 to the
     trustee‑manager of the registered business trust is to be
     read as including a reference to the proposed
     trustee‑manager of the business trust.

 (7) The Authority may prescribe any other modifications to the
provisions of Division 1 of Part 3 and Part 4 that may be necessary for

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
17  Business Trusts Act 2004  2020 Ed.

their proper application to a proposed trustee‑manager of a business
trust that has not yet been registered under this Act.

Register and notification of change in particulars

 5.—(1) The Authority must establish and maintain a register of
registered business trusts, and may prescribe the manner in which the
register is established or maintained, including the details or
particulars required to be entered in the register.

 (2) Any person may, upon payment of such fee as may be
prescribed, inspect and take an extract from the register established
under subsection (1), and any such extract, certified by the Authority
to be a true copy, is admissible as evidence in any legal proceedings.

 (3) Where a change occurs in any matter in relation to a registered
business trust, particulars of which are required to be entered in the
register of registered business trusts under subsection (1), the
trustee‑manager of the registered business trust must, not later than
14 days after the occurrence of the change, provide particulars of the
change to the Authority in the prescribed form and manner.

 (4) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                    PART 3
                          TRUSTEE‑MANAGER
               Division 1 — Responsibilities and powers
Trustee‑manager to be company and not to carry on any other
business
 6.—(1) A person other than a company (not being an exempt
private company) must not act as the trustee‑manager of a registered
business trust.
 (2) The business of a registered business trust must be managed and
operated only by the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust.
 (3) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must not
carry on any business other than the management and operation of the
registered business trust as its trustee‑manager.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 18

 (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (2) or (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

Secretary

 7.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must
ensure that its secretary is a person who —

       (a) for at least 3 years in the period of 5 years immediately
            preceding his or her appointment as secretary, held the
            office of secretary of a company or trustee‑manager of a
            registered business trust;

       (b) is a qualified person under the Legal Profession Act 1966,
            a public accountant, a member of the Singapore
            Association of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and
            Administrators or a member of any other professional
            association that may be prescribed; or

       (c) is, by virtue of such academic or professional
            qualifications as may be prescribed, capable of
            discharging the functions of secretary of the
            trustee‑manager.

 (2) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence.

Trustee‑manager to operate registered business trust and
power to appoint agents

 8.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must —

       (a) manage and operate the registered business trust in
            accordance with the provisions of this Act and the trust
            deed of the registered business trust; and

       (b) perform the functions conferred on it by the trust deed and
            the provisions of this Act.

 (2) Subject to the trust deed of a registered business trust, the
trustee‑manager of the registered business trust has power to appoint

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
19  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

an agent to carry out or perform any matter that the trustee‑manager is
authorised to carry out or perform in connection with the
management and operation of the registered business trust.

 (3) An agent mentioned in subsection (2) may also, with the
consent of the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust,
appoint an agent (called in this section a sub‑agent) to carry out or
perform any matter that the agent has been appointed by the
trustee‑manager to carry out or perform and, to avoid doubt, the
sub‑agent is deemed to be an agent appointed by the trustee‑manager
to carry out or perform that matter for the purposes of that subsection.

 (4) Where an agent or a sub‑agent appointed under subsection (2) or
(3) (as the case may be) is liable to indemnify the trustee‑manager of
the registered business trust against any loss or damage suffered by
the trustee‑manager as a result of the acts of the agent or sub‑agent,
any amount recovered under the indemnity forms part of the trust
property of the registered business trust.

 (5) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $10,000
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

Use of information and advice

 9.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the trustee‑manager of a
registered business trust may, when exercising powers or
performing duties as a trustee‑manager, rely on reports, statements,
financial data and other information prepared or supplied, and on
professional or expert advice given, by a professional adviser or an
expert in relation to matters which the trustee‑manager believes on
reasonable grounds to be within the person’s professional or expert
competence.

 (2) Subsection (1) applies to the trustee‑manager of a registered
business trust only if the trustee‑manager —

       (a) acts in good faith;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 20

(b) makes proper inquiry where the need for inquiry is
     indicated by the circumstances; and

          (c) has no knowledge that such reliance is unwarranted.

Duties of trustee‑manager

 10.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must at
all times act honestly and exercise reasonable diligence in the
discharge of its duties as a trustee‑manager in accordance with this
Act and the trust deed of the registered business trust.

 (2) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must —

       (a) act in the best interests of all the unitholders of the
            registered business trust as a whole; and

       (b) give priority to the interests of all the unitholders of the
            registered business trust as a whole over its own interests in
            the event of a conflict between the interests of all the
            unitholders as a whole and its own interests.

 (3) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must not
make improper use of its position as the trustee-manager or any
information acquired by virtue of its position as trustee‑manager to
gain, directly or indirectly, an advantage for itself or for any other
person to the detriment of the unitholders of the registered business
trust.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (4) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must hold the
trust property of the registered business trust on trust for all the
unitholders of the registered business trust as a whole in accordance
with the terms of the trust deed.

 (5) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4) —

       (a) is liable to all the unitholders of the registered business
            trust as a whole for any profit or financial gain directly or
            indirectly made by it or any of its related corporations or
            for any damage suffered by all the unitholders of the
            registered business trust as a whole as a result of the
            contravention; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
21  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
         conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

 (6) The Authority may, by regulations, prescribe requirements on
the scope of the duties of the trustee‑manager of a registered business
trust.

Duties of directors, officers and agents of trustee‑manager

 11.—(1) A director of the trustee‑manager of a registered business
trust must —

       (a) act honestly and exercise reasonable diligence in the
            discharge of the duties of his or her office and, in particular,
            must take all reasonable steps to ensure that the
            trustee‑manager discharges its duties under section 10(1)
            and (2); and

       (b) give priority to the interests of all the unitholders of the
            registered business trust as a whole over the interests of the
            trustee‑manager in the event of a conflict between the
            interests of all the unitholders as a whole and the interests
            of the trustee-manager.

 (2) An officer or agent of the trustee‑manager of a registered
business trust must not make improper use of his, her or its position as
an officer or agent of the trustee-manager or any information acquired
by virtue of his, her or its position as an officer or agent of the
trustee‑manager to gain, directly or indirectly, an advantage for the
officer, agent or any other person to the detriment of the unitholders
of the registered business trust.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (3) A duty of a director of the trustee‑manager of a registered
business trust under subsection (1) overrides any conflicting duty of
the director under section 157 of the Companies Act 1967.

 (4) No civil or criminal proceedings shall lie against a director of
the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust for a breach of
section 157 of the Companies Act 1967, any fiduciary duty or any
other duty under common law in relation to any act or omission to act
if such act or omission was required by subsection (1).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 22

 (5) A director, an officer or an agent of the trustee‑manager of a
registered business trust who or which contravenes subsection (1)
or (2) —

(a) is liable to all the unitholders of the registered business
     trust as a whole for any profit or financial gain directly or
     indirectly made by the director, officer, agent or the
     trustee‑manager or any related corporation of the
     trustee‑manager or for any damage suffered by all the
     unitholders of the registered business trust as a whole as a
     result of the contravention; and

(b) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
     conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to
     imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (6) To avoid doubt, no action or proceedings whatsoever may be
brought by or on behalf of all or any of the unitholders of a registered
business trust against a director of the trustee‑manager of that
registered business trust for any breach or alleged breach of the duties
imposed by subsections (1) and (2), except to the extent and in the
manner provided for under sections 41 and 42.

 (7) The Authority may, by regulations, prescribe requirements on
the scope of the duties of an officer or agent of the trustee‑manager of
a registered business trust.

(8) In this section —

“agent” includes a banker, a solicitor or an auditor of the
   trustee‑manager and any person who at any time has been a
   banker, a solicitor or an auditor of the trustee‑manager;

“officer” includes a person who at any time has been an officer
   of the trustee‑manager.

Disclosure of interests in transactions, property, offices, etc.

 12.—(1) Subject to this section, every director or chief executive
officer of the trustee-manager of a registered business trust (called in
this section the director or chief executive officer) who is in any way,
whether directly or indirectly, interested in a transaction or proposed
transaction entered or to be entered into by the trustee-manager for or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
23  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

on behalf of the registered business trust (called in this section the
transaction or proposed transaction) must, as soon as practicable after
the relevant facts have come to his or her knowledge —

    (a) declare the nature of his or her interest at a meeting of the
         directors of the trustee-manager; or

    (b) send a written notice to the trustee-manager containing
         details on the nature, character and extent of his or her
         interest in the transaction or proposed transaction.

 (2) A written notice under subsection (1)(b) must be given as soon
as practicable after —

    (a) the date on which the director or chief executive officer
         became a director or chief executive officer, as the case
         may be; or

    (b) if already a director or chief executive officer (as the case
         may be), the date on which the director or chief executive
         officer became, directly or indirectly, interested in the
         transaction or proposed transaction.

(3) Despite subsections (1) and (2), where —

    (a) before the appointed day, a chief executive officer had
         become, directly or indirectly, interested in a transaction or
         proposed transaction; and

    (b) on the appointed day, the transaction or proposed
         transaction has not been fully carried out,

the chief executive officer must —

    (c) make the declaration under subsection (1)(a) as soon as
        practicable on or after the appointed day unless the
        declaration has been made before that day; or

    (d) give the written notice under subsection (1)(b) as soon as
         practicable on or after the appointed day unless the written
         notice has been given before that day.

 (4) Where a chief executive officer makes any declaration in
accordance with subsection (3)(c), the chief executive officer is
deemed to have made a declaration under subsection (1)(a) in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 24

accordance with subsection (1), and any declaration made under
subsection (3)(c) is to be treated as a declaration given under
subsection (1)(a).

 (5) Where a chief executive officer gives any written notice in
accordance with subsection (3)(d), the chief executive officer is
deemed to have given a written notice under subsection (1)(b) in
accordance with subsection (2), and any written notice given under
subsection (3)(d) is to be treated as a written notice given under
subsection (1)(b).

 (6) The requirements of subsection (1) do not apply in any case
where the interest of the director or chief executive officer consists
only of being a member or creditor of a corporation which is
interested in a transaction or proposed transaction mentioned in that
subsection if the interest of the director or chief executive officer (as
the case may be) may properly be regarded as not being a material
interest.

 (7) A director or chief executive officer is not deemed to be
interested or to have been at any time interested in the transaction or
proposed transaction mentioned in subsection (1) by reason only —

(a) in the case where the transaction or proposed transaction
     relates to any loan to the trustee-manager of the registered
     business trust — that he or she has guaranteed or joined in
     guaranteeing the repayment of the loan or any part of the
     loan; or

(b) in the case where the transaction or proposed transaction
     has been or will be made with or for the benefit of or on
     behalf of a related corporation of the trustee-manager of
     the registered business trust — that he or she is a director or
     chief executive officer (as the case may be) of the related
     corporation,

and this subsection has effect not only for the purposes of this Act but
also for the purposes of any other law, but does not affect the
operation of any provision in the trust deed of the registered business
trust.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
25  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

 (8) A declaration given by a director or chief executive officer
under subsection (1)(a), or a written notice given by a director or
chief executive officer under subsection (1)(b), is to be treated as a
sufficient declaration or written notice under those provisions in
relation to a transaction or proposed transaction if —

    (a) in the case of a declaration, the declaration is given at a
         meeting of the directors of the trustee-manager or the
         director or chief executive officer (as the case may be)
         takes reasonable steps to ensure that it is brought up and
         read at the next meeting of the directors of the trustee-
         manager after it is given;

    (b) the declaration or written notice is to the effect that —

    (i) he or she is an officer or a member of a specified
        corporation, a member of a specified firm, or a
        partner or an officer of a specified limited liability
        partnership; and

    (ii) he or she is to be regarded as interested in any
         transaction which may, after the date of the
         declaration or written notice, be made with the
         specified corporation, firm or limited liability
         partnership;

    (c) the declaration or written notice specifies the nature and
        extent of his or her interest in the specified corporation,
        firm or limited liability partnership; and

    (d) at the time the transaction is made, or the proposed
         transaction is proposed, his or her interest is not different in
         nature or greater in extent than the nature and extent of the
         interest specified in the declaration or written notice under
         paragraph (c).

 (9) Every director and chief executive officer who holds any office
or possesses any property whereby, whether directly or indirectly, any
duty or interest might be created in conflict with the duties or interests
of the trustee-manager in relation to the registered business trust,
must —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 26

(a) declare the fact and the nature, character and extent of the
     conflict at a meeting of the directors of the trustee-
     manager; or

(b) send a written notice to the trustee-manager setting out the
     fact and the nature, character and extent of the conflict.

 (10) A declaration under subsection (9)(a) must be made at the first
meeting of the directors of the trustee-manager of a registered
business trust held —

(a) after he or she becomes a director or chief executive
     officer, as the case may be; or

(b) if already a director or chief executive officer (as the case
     may be), after he or she commenced to hold the office or to
     possess the property.

 (11) A written notice under subsection (9)(b) must be given as soon
as practicable after —

(a) the date on which the director or chief executive officer
     became a director or chief executive officer, as the case
     may be; or

(b) if already a director or chief executive officer (as the case
     may be), after he or she commenced to hold the office or to
     possess the property.

(12) Despite subsections (9), (10) and (11), where —

(a) before the appointed day, a chief executive officer held any
     office or possessed any property mentioned in
     subsection (9); and

(b) on the appointed day, the chief executive officer continues
     to hold such office or to possess such property,

the chief executive officer must —

          (c) make the declaration under subsection (9)(a) at the first
              meeting of the directors of the trustee-manager held on or
              after the appointed day unless the declaration has been
              made before that day; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
27  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

    (d) give the written notice under subsection (9)(b) as soon as
         practicable on or after the appointed day unless the written
         notice has been given before that day.

 (13) Where a chief executive officer makes any declaration in
accordance with subsection (12)(c), the chief executive officer is
deemed to have made a declaration under subsection (9)(a) in
accordance with subsection (10), and any declaration made under
subsection (12)(c) is to be treated as a declaration given under
subsection (9)(a).

 (14) Where a chief executive officer gives any written notice in
accordance with subsection (12)(d), the chief executive officer is
deemed to have given a written notice under subsection (9)(b) in
accordance with subsection (11), and any written notice given under
subsection (12)(d) is to be treated as a written notice given under
subsection (9)(b).

 (15) The trustee-manager of a registered business trust must, as
soon as practicable after the receipt of the written notice mentioned in
subsection (1)(b) or (9)(b), send a copy of the written notice to —

    (a) in the case where the written notice is given by a chief
         executive officer — all the directors of the trustee-
         manager; or

    (b) in the case where the written notice is given by a director
         — all the other directors of the trustee-manager.

 (16) Where a director or chief executive officer declares an interest
or a conflict by a written notice mentioned in subsection (1)(b) or
(9)(b) (respectively) in accordance with this section —

    (a) the making of the declaration is deemed to form part of the
         proceedings at the next meeting of the directors of the
         trustee-manager of the registered business trust after the
         written notice is given; and

    (b) the provisions of section 188 (minutes of proceedings) of
         the Companies Act 1967 apply as if the declaration had
         been made at that meeting.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 28

 (17) The secretary of the trustee-manager of a registered business
trust must —

(a) record every declaration under this section in the minutes
     of the meeting at which it was made; and

(b) keep records of every written resolution duly signed and
     returned to the trustee-manager under this section.

 (18) The directors of the trustee-manager of a registered business
trust must permit a chief executive officer who is not a director to
attend a meeting of the board of directors of the trustee-manager
where such attendance is necessary for the chief executive officer to
make a declaration for the purpose of complying with this section.

(19) For the purposes of this section —

(a) an interest of a member of a director’s family is treated as
     an interest of the director and the words “member of a
     director’s family” include the director’s spouse, son,
     adopted son, stepson, daughter, adopted daughter and
     stepdaughter; and

(b) an interest of a member of a chief executive officer’s
     family is treated as an interest of the chief executive officer
     and the words “member of the chief executive officer’s
     family” include the chief executive officer’s spouse, son,
     adopted son, stepson, daughter, adopted daughter and
     stepdaughter.

 (20) Subject to subsection (7), this section is in addition to and not
in derogation of the operation of any rule of law or any provision in
the trust deed restricting a director or chief executive officer of the
trustee-manager of a registered business trust from having any
interest in transactions with the trustee-manager in its capacity as the
trustee-manager of the registered business trust or from holding
offices or possessing properties involving duties or interests in
conflict with the duties or interests of the trustee-manager in relation
to the registered business trust.

 (21) Any director or chief executive officer who contravenes
subsection (1), (2), (3), (9), (10), (11), (12) or (18) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
29  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

$100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (22) In this section, “appointed day” means the date of
commencement of section 6 of the Business Trusts (Amendment)
Act 2022.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

Disclosure and register of directors’ and chief executive
officer’s interests

 13.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must
keep a register showing with respect to each director of the
trustee‑manager particulars of —

       (a) units or derivatives of units in the registered business trust,
            being units or derivatives in which the director has an
            interest and the nature and extent of that interest; and

       (b) debentures of the registered business trust in which the
            director has an interest and the nature and extent of that
            interest.

 (1A) The trustee-manager of a registered business trust must keep a
register showing with respect to each chief executive officer of the
trustee-manager particulars of —

       (a) units or derivatives of units in the registered business trust,
            being units or derivatives in which the chief executive
            officer has an interest and the nature and extent of that
            interest; and

       (b) debentures of the registered business trust in which the
            chief executive officer has an interest and the nature and
            extent of that interest.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (2) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must, within
3 days after receiving any notice from a director or chief executive
officer under subsection (8) or section 137N(1) of the Securities and
Futures Act 2001, enter in its register in relation to the director or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 30

chief executive officer (as the case may be) the particulars in
subsection (1) or (1A) (as the case may be), including —

(a) the number and description of units or derivatives of units
     in a registered business trust and debentures of a registered
     business trust, in which the director or chief executive
     officer (as the case may be) has an interest;

                                                                    [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

(b) in respect of units or derivatives of units in a registered
     business trust or debentures of a registered business trust,
     acquired after he or she became a director or chief
     executive officer (as the case may be) —

          (i) the price or other consideration for the transaction (if
              any) by reason of which an entry is required to be
              made under this subsection; and

              (ii) the date of the agreement for the transaction and the
                   date of completion of the transaction; or where there
                   was no transaction, the date of the occurrence of the
                   event by reason of which an entry is required to be
                   made under this subsection; and

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

       (c) particulars of any change in respect of the particulars
            mentioned in paragraphs (a) and (b), including the
            consideration (if any) received as a result of the event
            giving rise to the change.

                                                                                                             [2/2009]

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (2A) Subsection (2) does not apply to a trustee-manager of a
registered business trust in relation to any notice received by the
trustee-manager before the appointed day, from a person in the
person’s capacity as a chief executive officer, under section 137N(1)
of the Securities and Futures Act 2001.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (2B) Where —

(a) before the appointed day, the trustee-manager of a
     registered business trust had received any notice under

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
31  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

    section 137N(1) of the Securities and Futures Act 2001
    from a person in the person’s capacity as a chief executive
    officer; and

    (b) on the appointed day, the person is a chief executive officer
         of the trustee-manager,

the trustee-manager must enter in its register in relation to the chief
executive officer, within 14 days after the appointed day —

    (c) the particulars of units or derivatives of units in the
        registered business trust and debentures of the registered
        business trust, in which the chief executive officer has an
        interest immediately prior to the appointed day; and

       (d) the nature and extent of that interest, including the number
            and description of the units or derivatives of units in the
            registered business trust and debentures of the registered
            business trust.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (3) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must make
the register available for public inspection at the registered office of
the trustee‑manager without charge.

 (4) A person may request the trustee‑manager of a registered
business trust to provide the person with a copy of its register or any
part of the register on payment in advance of a sum of $1 or any lesser
sum that the trustee‑manager requires for every page or part of a page
required to be copied, and the trustee‑manager must send the copy to
that person within 21 days after the day on which the trustee‑manager
receives the request.

 (5) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must, at the
direction of the Authority, send to the Authority within such time as
may be specified by the Authority a copy of its register or any part of
the register.

 (6) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must produce
its register at the commencement of each annual general meeting of
the unitholders of the registered business trust and keep it open and
accessible during the meeting to all persons attending the meeting.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 32

 (7) It is a defence to a prosecution for failing to comply with
subsection (1), (1A), (2) or (2B) in respect of particulars relating to a
director or chief executive officer of the trustee‑manager of a
registered business trust if the defendant proves that the failure was
due to the failure of the director or chief executive officer to comply
with subsection (8) or (as the case may be) section 137N(1) of the
Securities and Futures Act 2001 with respect to those particulars.

                                                                                                             [2/2009]

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (8) In accordance with subsections (9), (9A) and (9B), every
director and chief executive officer of the trustee‑manager of a
registered business trust must give written notice to the
trustee‑manager of —

(a) particulars relating to his or her units or derivatives of units
     in the registered business trust, or debentures of the
     registered business trust; and

(b) particulars of any change in respect of the particulars
     mentioned in paragraph (a),

as are necessary for the purposes of compliance by the
trustee‑manager with subsections (1), (1A) and (2).

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (9) A notice under subsection (8) must be given —

(a) in the case of a notice under paragraph (a) of that
     subsection, within 2 business days after the later of the
     following dates:

          (i) the date on which the director became a director of
              the trustee-manager of a registered business trust or
              the chief executive officer became a chief executive
              officer of the trustee-manager, as the case may be;

          (ii) the date on which the director or chief executive
               officer (as the case may be) became a unitholder of
               the registered business trust or acquired an interest in
               the units or derivatives of units in the registered
               business trust or debentures of the registered
               business trust; and

                                                                    [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
33  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) in the case of a notice under paragraph (b) of that
         subsection, within 2 business days after the occurrence
         of the event giving rise to the change mentioned in that
         paragraph.

 (9A) Subsection (9) does not apply to a chief executive officer of
the trustee-manager of a registered business trust in respect of —

    (a) any acquisition of a unit in the registered business trust, or
         an interest in a unit or derivative of a unit in the registered
         business trust or a debenture of the registered business
         trust, that takes place before the appointed day; and

      (b) any change in respect of the particulars mentioned in
           subsection (8)(a), where the event giving rise to the change
           takes place before the appointed day.

                                                                             [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

(9B) Where —

    (a) before the appointed day, a chief executive officer of the
         trustee-manager of a registered business trust had become
         a unitholder of the registered business trust or acquired an
         interest in the units or derivatives of units in the registered
         business trust or debentures of the registered business trust;
         and

    (b) on the appointed day, the chief executive officer continues
         to hold such units or interests,

a notice under subsection (8)(a) must be given within 14 days after
the appointed day, unless such notice had been given before that day.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (10) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must, within
7 days after it receives a notice given under subsection (8), send a
copy of the notice to each of the other directors and chief executive
officers of the trustee‑manager.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (11) It is a defence to a prosecution for failing to comply with
subsection (8)(a) or (b), (9) or (9B) if the defendant proves that his or
her failure was due to his or her not being aware of a fact or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 34

occurrence the existence of which was necessary to constitute the
offence and that —

(a) he or she was not so aware on the date of the information or
     summons; or

       (b) he or she became so aware less than 2 days before the date
            of the summons.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (12) For the purposes of subsection (11), a person is conclusively
presumed to have been aware at a particular time of a fact or
occurrence —

(a) of which he or she would, if he or she had acted with
     reasonable diligence in the conduct of his or her affairs,
     have been aware at that time; or

(b) of which an employee or agent of the person, being an
     employee or agent having duties or acting in relation to his
     or her employer’s or principal’s interest in units or
     derivatives of units in the registered business trust or
     debentures of the registered business trust, was aware or
     would, if the employee or agent had acted with reasonable
     diligence in the conduct of the employer’s or principal’s
     affairs, have been aware at that time.

(13) [Deleted by Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (14) For the purposes of this section, a director or chief executive
officer of the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust is deemed
to have an interest in units or derivatives of units in the registered
business trust or debentures of the registered business trust (as the
case may be) if that director or chief executive officer (as the case
may be) is deemed to have an interest in the units, derivatives of units
or debentures (as the case may be) under section 4 of the Securities
and Futures Act 2001.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (15) For the purposes of this section —

(a) an interest of a member of a director’s family is treated as
     an interest of the director and the words “member of a
     director’s family” include the director’s spouse, son,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
35  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

    adopted son, stepson, daughter, adopted daughter and
    stepdaughter; and

       (b) an interest of a member of a chief executive officer’s
            family is treated as an interest of the chief executive officer
            and the words “member of the chief executive officer’s
            family” include the chief executive officer’s spouse, son,
            adopted son, stepson, daughter, adopted daughter and
            stepdaughter.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (16) Any director or chief executive officer of the trustee‑manager
of a registered business trust who contravenes subsection (8) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (17) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1), (1A), (2), (2B), (3), (4), (5), (6) or (10)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $25,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $2,500 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (18) Subsections (8) to (15) do not apply in respect of a registered
business trust —

    (a) all or any of the units of which are listed for quotation on
         the official list of an approved exchange; and

       (b) to which Subdivision (2) of Division 2 of Part 7 of the
            Securities and Futures Act 2001 applies.

                                                                                                   [2/2009; 4/2017]

 (19) In this section, “appointed day” means the date of
commencement of section 7 of the Business Trusts (Amendment)
Act 2022.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 36

Composition of board

 14.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must
ensure that the composition of its board of directors complies with
such requirements as may be prescribed by the Authority.

 (2) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in the case
of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $10,000 for
every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

Audit committees

 15.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must
establish an audit committee in accordance with such requirements as
may be prescribed by the Authority, including requirements in respect
of the composition of an audit committee.

 (2) The audit committee and every member of the audit committee
must comply with such requirements as may be prescribed by the
Authority, including requirements in respect of the duties and
functions of an audit committee.

 (3) Every director of the trustee‑manager of a registered business
trust must take all reasonable steps to secure compliance by the audit
committee of the trustee‑manager and every member of the audit
committee (as the case may be) with subsection (2).

 (4) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $10,000
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (5) If any director of the trustee‑manager of a registered business
trust —

       (a) fails to take all reasonable steps to secure the compliance
            by the audit committee of the trustee‑manager or any
            member of the audit committee with subsection (2); or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
37  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) has by his or her own wilful act been the cause of any
         contravention of subsection (2) by the audit committee of
         the trustee‑manager or any member of the audit committee,

he or she shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a continuing
offence, to a further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every day or part
of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

Acquisition of interest in registered business trust by
trustee‑manager

 16.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must
not acquire or hold any unit or derivative of any unit in the registered
business trust unless it acquires or holds the unit or derivative —

       (a) for not less than the consideration that would be payable if
            the unit or derivative of the unit were acquired by another
            person; and

       (b) subject to terms and conditions that would not
            disadvantage other unitholders of the registered business
            trust.

 (2) A person must not aid, abet or assist the contravention of
subsection (1) by the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust.

 (3) Any person who contravenes this section shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000.

Liquidator of trustee‑manager entitled to exercise indemnity
rights

 17. If the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust is being
wound up, is under judicial management or receivership or has
executed a deed of company arrangement that has not terminated —

       (a) any provision of the trust deed of the registered business
            trust or of another instrument which purports to deny the
            trustee‑manager a right to be indemnified out of the trust
            property of the registered business trust that the
            trustee‑manager would have had if it were not being

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 38

          wound up, under judicial management or receivership or if
          it had not executed a deed of company arrangement (as the
          case may be) is void against the liquidator, judicial
          manager or receiver of the trustee‑manager or the
          executor of the deed of company arrangement, as the
          case may be; and

(b) any right of the trustee‑manager to be indemnified out of
     the trust property of the registered business trust is to be
     exercised by the liquidator, judicial manager or receiver of
     the trustee‑manager or the executor of the deed of company
     arrangement, as the case may be.

                Division 2 — Change of trustee‑manager

Changes to take effect upon date of appointment

 18.—(1) Despite any provision in this Division, a person named as
the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust in the register which
is maintained by the Authority in accordance with section 5 must
remain the trustee‑manager or temporary trustee‑manager (as the case
may be) until another person is appointed —

       (a) by the unitholders of the registered business trust to be the
            trustee‑manager of the registered business trust; or

       (b) by the court under section 21(1) to be the temporary
            trustee‑manager of the registered business trust,

and such appointment is effective from the date stated in the
resolution of the unitholders or court order as the effective date of the
appointment of the trustee‑manager or temporary trustee‑manager, as
the case may be.

 (2) Any purported change of the trustee‑manager of the registered
business trust is ineffective unless it is made in accordance with this
Division.

Resignation of trustee‑manager

 19.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust may
resign from its position as trustee‑manager only in accordance with

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
39  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

such requirements and in such manner as the Authority may
prescribe.

 (2) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must, until its
resignation in accordance with subsection (1) becomes effective,
continue to observe, and be liable for the failure to observe, the duties
and responsibilities assigned to it under this Act and the trust deed of
the registered business trust.

 (3) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence.

Removal of trustee-manager by unitholders

 20.—(1) Despite any provision in the trust deed of a registered
business trust, the trustee-manager of a registered business trust may
be removed as the trustee-manager by the unitholders of the
registered business trust only if both of the following conditions
are satisfied:

       (a) a resolution to remove the trustee-manager is approved by
            the unitholders holding in the aggregate a majority of the
            voting rights of all the unitholders of the registered
            business trust who, being entitled to do so, vote in
            person or where proxies are allowed, by proxy present at
            a meeting of the unitholders of the registered business
            trust;

       (b) the removal is in accordance with such procedures as the
            Authority may prescribe.

 (2) Any provision in the trust deed of a registered business trust is
void insofar as it would have the effect —

       (a) of allowing the removal of a trustee-manager of a
            registered business trust as the trustee-manager by the
            unitholders of the registered business trust if a resolution to
            remove the trustee-manager is approved by the unitholders
            holding in the aggregate less than a majority of the voting
            rights of all the unitholders of the registered business trust
            who, being entitled to do so, vote in person or where

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 40

          proxies are allowed, by proxy present at a meeting of the
          unitholders of the registered business trust;

(b) of not allowing the removal of a trustee-manager of a
     registered business trust as the trustee-manager by the
     unitholders of the registered business trust even if a
     resolution to remove the trustee-manager is approved by
     the unitholders holding in the aggregate a majority of the
     voting rights of all the unitholders of the registered
     business trust who, being entitled to do so, vote in
     person or where proxies are allowed, by proxy present at
     a meeting of the unitholders of the registered business
     trust; or

          (c) of allowing the removal of a trustee-manager of a
              registered business trust as the trustee-manager by the
              unitholders of the registered business trust in accordance
              with any procedure other than as prescribed by the
              Authority for the purposes of subsection (1)(b).

                                                                              [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

Appointment of temporary trustee‑manager by court

 21.—(1) On an application by the Authority or the trustee‑manager
or a unitholder of a registered business trust, the court may, by order,
appoint a company that has consented in writing to serve as a
temporary trustee‑manager to be the temporary trustee‑manager of
the registered business trust for a period of 3 months if the court is
satisfied that the appointment is in the interest of the unitholders of
the registered business trust.

 (2) The company that is appointed by the court under subsection (1)
to act as the temporary trustee‑manager of a registered business trust
must comply with the duties, obligations and any other requirements
imposed under this Act and as may be prescribed by the Authority
with respect to the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust.

 (3) Despite subsection (2), the court may exempt the temporary
trustee‑manager of a registered business trust from sections 6, 14 and
15.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
41  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

 (4) The court may make any further orders in respect of the
appointment of a temporary trustee‑manager under subsection (1)
that it thinks necessary to protect the interests of the unitholders of the
registered business trust, including an order to reimburse the costs of
the application out of the trust property of the registered business trust
to the person who made the application under that subsection.

 (5) Upon the making of an order by the court appointing a company
as the temporary trustee‑manager of a registered business trust, the
resigning trustee‑manager of the registered business trust and that
appointed temporary trustee‑manager must comply with such
requirements as the Authority may prescribe.

 (6) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (5) shall be guilty of an offence.

Temporary trustee‑manager to take steps for appointment of
new trustee‑manager

 22.—(1) The temporary trustee‑manager of a registered business
trust must, within such time and in accordance with such
requirements as may be prescribed by the Authority, take such
steps to enable the unitholders of the registered business trust to
appoint another person as the trustee‑manager (not being a temporary
trustee‑manager) of the registered business trust.

 (2) Any temporary trustee‑manager of a registered business trust
which contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence.

     Division 3 — Consequences of change of trustee‑manager

Resigning trustee‑manager to hand over books and provide
reasonable assistance

 23.—(1) The resigning trustee‑manager of a registered business
trust must, as soon as practicable after the appointment of the
replacement trustee‑manager or the temporary trustee‑manager (as
the case may be) of the registered business trust —

       (a) give the replacement trustee‑manager or temporary
            trustee‑manager (as the case may be) any books which
            are in the possession or control of the resigning

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 42

          trustee‑manager and which this Act or the trust deed of the
          registered business trust requires to be kept in relation to
          the registered business trust; and

(b) give reasonable assistance to the replacement
     trustee‑manager or temporary trustee‑manager (as the
     case may be) to facilitate the change of trustee‑manager
     of the registered business trust.

 (2) Any person who contravenes this section shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Rights, obligations and liabilities of resigning trustee‑manager

 24.—(1) Any —

       (a) legal right in, title to and interest under any trust property
            of a registered business trust owned, leased, held or used
            by a resigning trustee‑manager for or on behalf of the
            registered business trust; and

       (b) obligations and liabilities of the resigning trustee‑manager
            undertaken for or on behalf of the registered business trust,

must be transferred to and vested in, and assumed by, the replacement
trustee‑manager or the temporary trustee‑manager of the registered
business trust to be held for or on behalf of the registered business
trust from the effective date of appointment of the replacement
trustee‑manager or temporary trustee‑manager, as the case may be.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), the following rights, obligations and
liabilities remain the rights, obligations and liabilities of the resigning
trustee‑manager of a registered business trust:

       (a) any right of the resigning trustee‑manager to be paid fees
            for the performance of its functions before it ceased to be
            the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust;

       (b) any right of the resigning trustee‑manager to be
            indemnified for expenses it had incurred before it ceased
            to be the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
43  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

    (c) any right, obligation or liability that the resigning
        trustee‑manager had or continues to have as a unitholder
        of the registered business trust; and

    (d) any liability in respect of which the resigning
         trustee‑manager would have had no claim of
         indemnification out of the trust property of the registered
         business trust if it had remained the trustee‑manager of the
         registered business trust.

Effect of change of trustee‑manager on documents, etc., to
which resigning trustee‑manager is a party

 25.—(1) Any document or agreement entered into by the resigning
trustee‑manager of a registered business trust on behalf of the
registered business trust —

       (a) to which the resigning trustee‑manager is a party, in which
            a reference is made to the resigning trustee‑manager or
            under which the resigning trustee‑manager has acquired or
            incurred any right, obligation or liability or might have
            acquired or incurred any right, obligation or liability if it
            had remained the trustee‑manager of the registered
            business trust; and

       (b) that is capable of having effect after the appointment of the
            replacement trustee‑manager or the temporary
            trustee‑manager of the registered business trust, as the
            case may be,

has effect, from the effective date of appointment of the replacement
trustee‑manager or temporary trustee‑manager under section 18 (as
the case may be) as if the replacement trustee‑manager or temporary
trustee‑manager, as the case may be, (and not the resigning
trustee‑manager) were a party to it, were referred to in it or had or
might have acquired or incurred the right, obligation or liability under
it.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to any right, obligation or liability
that remains the right, obligation or liability of the resigning
trustee‑manager by virtue of section 24(2).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 44

          Division 4 — Written directions

Power of Authority to issue directions to trustee‑manager or
temporary trustee‑manager

26.—(1) The Authority may —

(a) for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the provisions
     of this Act; or

(b) if it thinks it necessary in the public interest for the proper
     administration of this Act,

issue written directions, either of a general or specific nature, to the
trustee‑manager or temporary trustee‑manager of a registered
business trust.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may issue written
directions —

(a) where the trustee‑manager or temporary trustee‑manager
     of a registered business trust is contravening, is likely to
     contravene or has contravened any provision of this Act, to
     require that person —

          (i) to comply with that provision or to cease
              contravention of that provision; or

          (ii) to resign as trustee‑manager of the registered
               business trust; or

(b) with respect to any other matter which the Authority
     considers necessary for the proper administration of this
     Act,

and the trustee‑manager or temporary trustee‑manager must comply
with any such directions.

 (3) The Authority may at any time vary, rescind or revoke any
written direction issued under this section.

 (4) Any trustee‑manager or temporary trustee‑manager of a
registered business trust which contravenes any written direction
issued under this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 and, in the case
of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $5,000 for

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
45  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (5) It is not necessary to publish any written direction issued under
this section in the Gazette.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

                       Division 5 — Indemnification

Provisions protecting officers of trustee-manager from liability

 27.—(1) Any provision (whether in the trust deed of a registered
business trust, in any contract entered into by the trustee-manager of a
registered business trust or its officer or whenever and however
arising) that purports to exempt an officer of the trustee-manager (to
any extent) from any liability that would otherwise attach to the
officer in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or
breach of trust in relation to the registered business trust is void.

 (2) Any provision (whether in the trust deed of a registered business
trust, in any contract entered into by the trustee-manager of a
registered business trust or its officer or whenever and however
arising) by which the trustee-manager directly or indirectly provides
an indemnity (to any extent) for an officer of the trustee-manager
against any liability attaching to him or her in connection with any
negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the
registered business trust is void, except as permitted by subsection (3)
or section 27A.

 (3) Subsection (2) does not prevent the trustee-manager of a
registered business trust from purchasing and maintaining for an
officer of the trustee-manager insurance against any liability
mentioned in that subsection.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

Third party indemnity

 27A.—(1) Section 27(2) does not apply where the provision for
indemnity is against liability incurred by the officer to a person other
than the trustee-manager in its capacity as trustee-manager of the
registered business trust, except when the indemnity is against —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 46

(a) any liability of the officer to pay —

          (i) a fine in criminal proceedings; or

          (ii) a sum payable to a regulatory authority by way of a
               penalty in respect of non-compliance with any
               requirement of a regulatory nature (however
               arising); or

(b) any liability incurred by the officer —

          (i) in defending criminal proceedings in which he or she
              is convicted;

          (ii) in defending civil proceedings brought by the
               trustee-manager of the registered business trust or
               a related corporation of the trustee-manager in which
               judgment is given against him or her; or

          (iii) in connection with an application for relief under
                section 105 in which the court refuses to grant him or
                her relief.

 (2) The references in subsection (1)(b) to a conviction, judgment or
refusal of relief are references to the final decision in the proceedings.

(3) For the purposes of subsection (2) —

(a) a conviction, judgment or refusal of relief becomes final —

          (i) if it is not appealed against — at the end of the period
              for bringing an appeal; or

          (ii) if it is appealed against — at the time when the
               appeal (or any further appeal) is disposed of; and

(b) an appeal (or further appeal) is disposed of —

          (i) if it is determined and there is no right of further
              appeal, or if there is a right of further appeal, the
              period for bringing any further appeal has ended; or

          (ii) if it is abandoned or otherwise ceases to have effect.

                                                                    [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
47  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

Exception for expenditure on defending proceedings, etc.

 27B.—(1) Despite sections 162 and 163 of the Companies Act
1967, and if it is done on the terms provided in subsection (2), a
trustee-manager of a registered business trust may —

    (a) provide a director of the trustee-manager with funds by
         way of any loan to meet expenditure incurred or to be
         incurred by the director —

    (i) in defending any criminal or civil proceedings in
        connection with any alleged negligence, default,
        breach of duty or breach of trust by him or her in
        relation to the registered business trust; or

    (ii) in connection with an application for relief under
         section 105; or

    (b) enable any such director to avoid incurring such
         expenditure.

(2) The terms mentioned in subsection (1) are —

    (a) that the loan is to be repaid, or (as the case may be) any
         liability of the registered business trust incurred under any
         transaction connected with the thing done is to be
         discharged, in the event of —

    (i) the director being convicted in the proceedings;

    (ii) judgment being given against him or her in the
         proceedings; or

    (iii) the court refusing to grant him or her relief on the
          application; and

    (b) that the loan is to be repaid or discharged not later than 14
         days after —

    (i) the date when the conviction becomes final;

    (ii) the date when the judgment becomes final; or

    (iii) the date when the refusal of relief becomes final.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 48

(3) For the purposes of this section —

(a) a conviction, judgment or refusal of relief becomes final —

          (i) if it is not appealed against — at the end of the period
              for bringing an appeal; or

          (ii) if it is appealed against — when the appeal (or any
               further appeal) is disposed of;

(b) an appeal or further appeal is disposed of —

          (i) if it is determined and there is no right of further
              appeal, or if there is a right of further appeal, the
              period for bringing any further appeal has ended; or

          (ii) if it is abandoned or otherwise ceases to have effect;
               and

          (c) a reference to the repayment of a loan includes the payment
              of any interest which is chargeable under the terms on
              which the loan was given.

                                                                              [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

Exception for expenditure in connection with regulatory action
or investigation

 27C. Section 27 of this Act and sections 162, 163 and 172 of the
Companies Act 1967 do not apply to anything done by a trustee-
manager of a registered business trust —

       (a) to provide a director of the trustee-manager of a registered
            business trust with funds by way of any loan to meet
            expenditure incurred or to be incurred by the director in
            defending himself or herself —

               (i) in an investigation by a regulatory authority; or

              (ii) against any action proposed to be taken by a
                   regulatory authority,

       (a) in connection with any alleged negligence, default, breach
            of duty or breach of trust by the director in relation to the
            registered business trust; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
49  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) to enable any such director to avoid incurring such
         expenditure.

                                                                        [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

                                    PART 4

                                TRUST DEED

Contents of trust deed

 28.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must
make provision in the trust deed of the registered business trust —

       (a) relating to such particulars as are sufficient to define the
            scope of business of the registered business trust and
            disclose the structure of, and the nature of the units in, the
            registered business trust;

       (b) for the powers of the trustee‑manager in relation to
            managing and operating the business of the registered
            business trust;

       (c) in respect of the duration, if ascertainable, of the registered
            business trust or, if the duration is not ascertainable, a
            statement of that fact;

       (d) for the conditions governing the transfer of units in the
            registered business trust;

       (e) specifying the full particulars of —

               (i) the remuneration of the trustee‑manager of the
                   registered business trust and the manner in which
                   that remuneration is provided for; and

              (ii) any other fees or charges payable out of the trust
                   property of the registered business trust;

        (f) relating to the procedure for the winding up of the
            registered business trust, which procedure must not be in
            conflict with any provision in Part 7 and, in the case of any
            such conflict, the provisions in Part 7 prevail; and

       (g) in respect of any other matters that may be prescribed by
            the Authority.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 50

 (2) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust has no right to
be paid fees or to claim indemnification for debts, expenses or other
liabilities incurred by the trustee‑manager on behalf of the registered
business trust out of the trust property of the registered business trust,
and any agreement, arrangement or any provision in the trust deed of
the registered business trust that purports to confer such a right has no
effect, unless such right to fees or indemnification has been conferred
on the trustee‑manager by the trust deed of the registered business
trust.

 (3) Any contract or arrangement purporting to restrict or remove
the entitlement of the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust to
be indemnified out of the trust property of the registered business
trust as conferred on the trustee‑manager by the trust deed of the
registered business trust has no effect.

 (4) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust has no power
to borrow or raise money, to issue debentures of the registered
business trust or to assume (whether by way of declaration of trust,
transfer, novation, vesting or otherwise) obligations or liabilities for
such borrowings or issuance of debentures of the registered business
trust on behalf of the registered business trust, unless such power is
provided in the trust deed of the registered business trust, and any
agreement or arrangement that purports to confer such power has no
effect.

 (5) The unitholders of a registered business trust have no right to
redeem their units in return for distributions of profits, income or
other payments or returns from the trust property of the registered
business trust, unless the trust deed of the registered business trust —

(a) confers such right; and

(b) sets out procedures relating to the making and handling of
     redemption orders which are fair to all the unitholders of
     the registered business trust.

 (6) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $10,000

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
51  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

Liability of trustee‑managers

 29.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), any provision in a trust deed of a
registered business trust required under section 28 or in any contract
with the unitholders of a registered business trust to which such a trust
deed relates is void in so far as it would have the effect of exempting
the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust under the trust
deed from, or indemnifying the trustee‑manager against, liability for
breach of trust where the trustee‑manager fails to exercise the degree
of care and diligence required of a trustee‑manager of a registered
business trust.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not invalidate —

       (a) any release otherwise validly given in respect of anything
            done or omitted to be done by the trustee‑manager of a
            registered business trust before the giving of the release; or

       (b) any provision enabling such a release to be given —

               (i) on the passing of a special resolution by the
                   unitholders of the registered business trust at a
                   general meeting convened in accordance with
                   Division 1 of Part 9; and

              (ii) either with respect to specific acts or omissions, or
                   upon the trustee‑manager of a registered business
                   trust ceasing to act.

Trust deed to be legally enforceable

 30.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must
ensure that the trust deed of the registered business trust is contained
in a document that is legally enforceable as between the unitholders
of the registered business trust and the trustee‑manager.

 (2) The unenforceability of the trust deed of a registered business
trust does not operate so as to avoid or affect any agreement,
transaction or arrangement entered into by the trustee‑manager on
behalf of the trust, whether the agreement, transaction or arrangement

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 52

was entered into before or after the point in time when the trust deed
became unenforceable.

 (3) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must make a
copy of the trust deed available to the public without charge.

 (4) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $10,000
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (5) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $25,000 and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $2,500
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

Change of trust deed

 31.—(1) A person must not modify or replace the trust deed of a
registered business trust unless the modification or replacement is
approved —

       (a) by special resolution of the unitholders of the registered
            business trust; or

       (b) where the modification is necessary in order to comply
            with any written law or rule of law applicable in Singapore,
            by the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), any modification or replacement of the
trust deed of a registered business trust is void if the modification or
replacement would result in a breach of section 28(1) by the
trustee‑manager of the registered business trust.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), where the trustee‑manager of a
registered business trust is aggrieved by a modification or
replacement of the trust deed of the registered business trust made
pursuant to subsection (1)(a), the trustee‑manager may apply to the
court to cancel the modification or replacement within 21 days after

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
53  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

the date on which the resolution of the unitholders mentioned in
subsection (1)(a) was passed.

 (4) On an application made by the trustee‑manager of a registered
business trust under subsection (3), the court —

    (a) is to have regard to whether the provisions of this Act have
         been complied with and whether the unitholders that
         approved the modification or replacement have acted in
         good faith in doing so; and

    (b) may make an order cancelling the modification or
         replacement or confirming the modification or
         replacement subject to any alterations or conditions that
         it thinks just,

and such modification or replacement (as the case may be) takes
effect on the date of the order of the court.

 (5) Where the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust
proposes to the unitholders of the registered business trust to act by
special resolution to effect a revision to the fees or charges payable
out of trust property of the registered business trust to the
trustee‑manager, the trustee‑manager must include in the notice to
the unitholders required under section 63 for such resolution to be
considered a special resolution —

    (a) the rationale or justification for the proposed revision to the
         fees or charges;

    (b) the methods or procedures for determining the proposed
         revision to the fees or charges; and

    (c) an opinion, from an independent adviser, on whether the
        methods or procedures for determining the proposed
        revision to the fees or charges are sufficient to ensure
        that the proposed revision is on normal commercial terms
        and will not be prejudicial to the interests of all the
        unitholders as a whole.

 (6) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must give
notice of the modification or replacement of the trust deed of a
registered business trust mentioned in subsection (1)(b) to all the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 54

unitholders of the registered business trust within 7 days from the
modification or replacement of the trust deed.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (7) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must lodge
with the Authority —

(a) a copy of the provisions in the trust deed of the registered
     business trust that have been modified or replaced in
     accordance with subsection (1) or a copy of the new trust
     deed (incorporating such modification or replacement)
     within 2 business days after the modification or
     replacement mentioned in that subsection takes effect; and

(b) where an application to cancel the modification or
     replacement mentioned in subsection (3) has been made —

          (i) a copy of the application within 2 business days after
              the application has been made; and

          (ii) a copy of the court order mentioned in
               subsection (4)(b) within 7 days after that order has
               been made.

 (8) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must, at the
direction of the Authority, lodge with the Authority a copy of the
amended trust deed of the registered business trust after incorporating
all the amendments prior to the date of lodgment.

 (9) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must make an
updated copy of the trust deed available to the public without charge.

 (10) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must, at the
request of any unitholder of the registered business trust, provide an
updated copy of the trust deed to that unitholder without charge.

 (11) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000.

 (12) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (5) or (6) shall be guilty of an offence.

 (13) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (7), (8), (9) or (10) shall be guilty of an

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
55  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$25,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $2,500 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                    PART 5

                               UNITHOLDERS

Limitation of liability of unitholders

 32.—(1) To avoid doubt, a unitholder of a registered business trust
is not liable to contribute to the registered business trust or in respect
of any debts, liabilities or obligations incurred by the trustee‑manager
in its capacity as trustee‑manager for the registered business trust,
other than the outstanding amounts of money (if any) which the
unitholder has expressly agreed to contribute to the registered
business trust.

 (2) The limitation of the liability of a unitholder of a registered
business trust referred to in subsection (1) applies despite —

       (a) any provision to the contrary in the trust deed of the
            registered business trust; or

       (b) the winding up of the registered business trust.

Distributions to unitholders

 33.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust has the
right to declare a distribution of profits, income or other payments or
returns to the unitholders of the registered business trust out of the
trust property of the registered business trust; but such distribution
may only be made if the board of directors of the trustee‑manager
makes a written statement, in accordance with a resolution of the
board of directors of the trustee‑manager and signed by at least 2 of
the directors, that the board of directors is satisfied on reasonable
grounds that, immediately after making the distribution, the
trustee‑manager will be able to fulfil, from the trust property of the
registered business trust, the liabilities of the registered business trust
as these liabilities fall due.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 56

 (2) Upon the declaration by the trustee‑manager of a registered
business trust to make a distribution of profits, income or other
payments or returns from the trust property of the registered business
trust to the unitholders of the registered business trust in accordance
with subsection (1), the trustee‑manager must —

(a) send to all the unitholders of the registered business
     trust —

          (i) a copy of the written statement of the board of
              directors mentioned in subsection (1);

          (ii) a written statement disclosing the distribution policy
               and the measures and assumptions for deriving the
               amount available to be distributed from the trust
               property; and

          (iii) a written statement containing any other information
                that the Authority may prescribe or specify;

(b) give notice of the declaration of the distribution of profits,
     income or other payments or returns from the trust property
     of the registered business trust to the unitholders in one or
     more newspapers circulating in Singapore; and

          (c) make available a copy of each of the statements mentioned
              in paragraph (a) to the public without charge.

 (3) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence.

 (4) If the board of directors of the trustee‑manager of a registered
business trust makes a written statement mentioned in subsection (1)
without any reasonable basis for arriving at the conclusions set out in
the written statement, any director of the trustee‑manager who
permits or authorises the written statement to be made shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
57  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

Creditors of unitholders to have no rights to obtain possession
of trust property

 34. A creditor of a unitholder of a registered business trust has no
right to obtain possession of, or otherwise exercise any legal or
equitable remedy with respect to, the trust property of the registered
business trust.

Rights of unitholders to distribution

 35.—(1) Upon the declaration by the trustee‑manager of a
registered business trust of a distribution of profits, income or
other payments or returns out of the trust property of the registered
business trust to the unitholders of the registered business trust, each
unitholder becomes entitled, after the date on which the distribution is
payable, to receive the distribution, and upon such declaration, the
unitholder is deemed to be, and is entitled to all legal and equitable
remedies available to, a creditor of the registered business trust, with
recourse to the trust property out of which the distribution is to be
made.

 (2) The trust deed of a registered business trust may provide for the
establishment of book closure dates with respect to distributions of
profits, income or other payments or returns by the trustee‑manager
of the registered business trust.

Approval of unitholders required for issue of units by
trustee‑manager

 36.—(1) Despite anything in the trust deed of a registered business
trust, the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust must not,
without the prior approval of a majority of the number of votes of the
unitholders of the registered business trust who, being entitled to do
so, vote in person or, where proxies are allowed, by proxy present at a
general meeting which is convened in accordance with the
requirements under Division 1 of Part 9, exercise any power to
issue units in the registered business trust or to make or grant an offer,
agreement or option which would or might require units in the
registered business trust to be issued.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 58

 (2) Approval for the purposes of this section may be confined to a
particular exercise of that power or may apply to the exercise of that
power generally, and any such approval may be unconditional or
subject to conditions.

 (3) Any approval for the purposes of this section continues in force
until —

(a) the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the
     registered business trust commencing next after the date
     on which the approval was given; or

(b) the expiry of the period within which the next annual
     general meeting of the registered business trust after that
     date is required under section 53 to be held,

whichever is the earlier, but any approval may be previously revoked
or varied by the unitholders of the registered business trust in general
meeting.

 (4) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust may issue
units in the registered business trust even though an approval for the
purposes of this section has ceased to be in force if the units are issued
pursuant to an offer, agreement or option made or granted by the
trustee‑manager while the approval was in force and it was authorised
by the approval to make or grant an offer, agreement or option which
would or might require units to be issued after the expiry of the
approval.

 (5) Section 65 applies to any resolution by which an approval is
given for the purposes of this section as if the resolution were a
special resolution for purposes of that section.

 (6) Any issue of units in a registered business trust made in
contravention of this section is void and consideration given for the
units may be recoverable accordingly.

 (7) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes this section with respect to any issue of units in the
registered business trust shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
59  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

 (8) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust has no
recourse to the trust property for the purposes of reimbursement of
any liabilities incurred by the trustee‑manager as a result of this
section.

 (9) If the trustee‑manager of any registered business trust is found
guilty of an offence under subsection (7), the trustee‑manager and any
director of the trustee‑manager who knowingly contravenes, or
permits or authorises the contravention of this section with respect to
any issue of units in the registered business trust shall be liable to
compensate the person to whom the units were issued for any loss,
damages or costs which that person may have sustained or incurred
thereby; but no proceedings to recover from any director of the
trustee‑manager or the trustee‑manager for any such loss, damages or
costs may be commenced after the expiry of 6 years from the date of
such issue of units.

37. [Repealed by Act 2 of 2009]

38. [Repealed by Act 2 of 2009]

39. [Repealed by Act 2 of 2009]

                        PART 6
    CIVIL LIABILITY AND TAKE-OVERS

                                                             [2/2009]

Civil liability of trustee‑managers to unitholders

 40.—(1) Any unitholder of a registered business trust who suffers
loss or damage because of any conduct of the trustee‑manager of the
registered business trust which contravenes any provision of this Act
may recover the amount of the loss or damage by action against the
trustee‑manager, whether or not the trustee‑manager has been
convicted of an offence in respect of the contravention.

 (2) Any action under subsection (1) must commence within 6 years
after the cause of action arises.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 60

 (3) This section does not affect any liability that any person has
under any other provision of this Act or under any other written law or
rule of law.

Power to acquire units of unitholders dissenting from
arrangement or contract approved by 90% majority

 40A.—(1) Where an arrangement or a contract involving the
transfer of all of the units, or all of the units in any particular class, in
a registered business trust (called in this section the subject trust)
to —

(a) the trustee of another trust (including the trustee‑manager
     of another business trust and the trustee of a real estate
     investment trust); or

(b) any other person,

                       [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

(called in this section the transferee) has, within 4 months after the
making of the offer in that behalf by the transferee, been approved as
to the units or as to each class of units whose transfer is involved by
the holders of at least 90% of the total number of those units or of the
units of that class (other than units already held at the date of the offer
by the transferee), the transferee may, at any time within 2 months
after the offer has been so approved, give notice in the prescribed
manner to any dissenting unitholder that it desires to acquire the units
of the dissenting unitholder.

                                                                                                             [2/2009]

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (2) When a notice mentioned in subsection (1) is given, the
transferee is, unless on an application made by a dissenting unitholder
within one month from the date on which the notice was given or
within 14 days of a statement being supplied to a dissenting
unitholder under subsection (3) (whichever is the later) a court
thinks fit to order otherwise, entitled and bound to acquire those
units —

(a) on the terms which under the arrangement or contract the
     units of the approving unitholders are to be transferred to
     the transferee; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
61  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

       (b) if the offer contained 2 or more alternative sets of terms, on
            the terms which were specified in the offer as being
            applicable to dissenting unitholders.

                                                                                                             [2/2009]

 (2A) Where alternative terms were offered to the unitholders, a
dissenting unitholder is entitled to elect which of those terms the
dissenting unitholder prefers, on or before the later of the following
dates:

    (a) the last day of one month after the date on which the notice
         is given under subsection (1);

       (b) the 14th day after a statement is supplied under
            subsection (3).

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (2B) In offering alternative terms to the unitholders, the transferee
must state which of those terms is to apply to the acquisition of the
units of a dissenting unitholder where the dissenting unitholder fails
to make the election within the time allowed under subsection (2A).

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (2C) In determining whether the arrangement or contract has been
approved by the holders of the requisite number of units, or units of
any particular class, under subsection (1), the units that are issued
after the date of the offer are to be disregarded.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (3) Where a transferee has given notice to any dissenting unitholder
of the subject trust that it desires to acquire the units of the dissenting
unitholder, the dissenting unitholder is entitled to require the trustee-
manager of the subject trust by a written demand served on the
trustee-manager of the subject trust, within one month from the date
on which the notice was given, to supply the dissenting unitholder
with a written statement of the names and addresses of all other
dissenting unitholders as shown in the register of unitholders of the
subject trust; and the transferee is not entitled or bound to acquire the
units of the dissenting unitholders until 14 days after the posting of
the statement of such names and addresses to the dissenting
unitholder.

                                                                                                             [2/2009]

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 62

 (4) Where, pursuant to any such arrangement or contract, units in
the subject trust are transferred to a transferee or its nominee and
those units together with any other units in the subject trust held by
the transferee at the date of the transfer comprise or include 90% of
the total number of the units in the subject trust or of any class of
those units, then —

(a) the transferee must within one month from the date of the
     transfer (unless on a previous transfer pursuant to the
     arrangement or contract it has already complied with this
     requirement) give notice of that fact in the prescribed
     manner to the holders of the remaining units in, or of the
     remaining units of that class of units in, the subject trust
     who have not assented to the arrangement or contract; and

       (b) any such holder may within 3 months from receiving the
            notice require the transferee to acquire the units of the
            holder.

                                                                                                             [2/2009]

 (5) Where a unitholder has given notice under subsection (4)(b)
with respect to any units, the transferee is entitled and bound to
acquire those units —

(a) on the terms on which under the arrangement or contract
     the units of the approving unitholders were transferred to
     it; or

       (b) on any other terms that are agreed or that the court on the
            application of either the transferee or the unitholder thinks
            fit to order.

                                                                                                             [2/2009]

 (6) Where a notice has been given by the transferee under
subsection (1) and a court has not, on an application made by the
dissenting unitholder, ordered to the contrary, the transferee must —

(a) after the expiry of one month after the date on which the
     notice has been given;

(b) after 14 days after a statement has been supplied to a
     dissenting unitholder under subsection (3); or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
63  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

    (c) if an application to the court by the dissenting unitholder is
        then pending, after that application has been disposed of,

transmit a copy of the notice to the trustee of the subject trust together
with an instrument of transfer executed on behalf of the unitholder by
any person appointed by the transferee and on its own behalf by the
transferee, and pay, allot or transfer to the trustee of the subject trust
the amount or other consideration representing the price payable by
the transferee for the units which by virtue of this section the
transferee is entitled to acquire, and the trustee of the subject trust
must thereupon register the transferee as the holder of those units.

                                                                                                             [2/2009]

 (7) Any sums received by the trustee of the subject trust under this
section must be paid into a separate bank account, and any such sums
and any other consideration so received must be held by that trustee in
trust for the several persons who had held the units in respect of which
they were respectively received.

                                                                                                             [2/2009]

 (8) Where any money or other consideration is held in trust by the
trustee of the subject trust for any person under this section, the
trustee holding the money or other consideration may, after the expiry
of 2 years and must, before the expiry of 10 years, after the date on
which such money or other consideration was received by the trustee,
transfer the money or other consideration to the Official Receiver.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (9) The Official Receiver must —

    (a) deal with any moneys received under subsection (8) as if
         the moneys were paid to the Official Receiver pursuant to
         section 49; and

       (b) sell or dispose of any other consideration so received under
            subsection (8) in any manner that he or she thinks fit and
            must deal with the proceeds of the sale or disposal as if it
            were moneys paid to him or her pursuant to section 49.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (10) In determining the units in the subject trust already held by the
transferee at the date of the offer under subsection (1) or the
percentage of the total number of units in the subject trust or of any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 64

class of those units held by the transferee under subsection (4), units
held or acquired —

(a) by a nominee on behalf of the transferee;

(b) where the transferee is a corporation, by its related
     corporation or by a nominee of the related corporation;

          (c) where the transferee is the trustee‑manager of a business
              trust or the trustee of a real estate investment trust —

          (i) by a person who controls more than 50% of the
              voting power in the business trust or real estate
              investment trust, or by a nominee of that person;

          (ii) by the trustee‑manager of the business trust on its
               own account, or by the manager for the real estate
               investment trust, or by a nominee of the
               trustee‑manager or manager; or

          (iii) by a related corporation of the trustee‑manager for
                the business trust or the manager for the real estate
                investment trust or by a nominee of that related
                corporation; or

(d) where the transferee is the trustee of a trust that is not a
     business trust or a real estate investment trust, by a related
     corporation of the trustee (being a corporation) or by a
     nominee of that related corporation,

is to be treated as held or acquired by the transferee.            [2/2009]
 (11) To avoid doubt, in this section —

(a) a reference to a transferee (being the trustee of a trust)
     holding, acquiring or contracting to acquire units in
     another trust is a reference to the transferee doing any of
     these as trustee of the firstmentioned trust; and

(b) a reference to a transfer of units of a trust to a transferee
     (being the trustee of another trust) is a reference to such
     transfer of units to the transferee as trustee of that other
     trust.

                                                                                                  [2/2009]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
65  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

 (12) The reference in subsection (1) to units already held by the
transferee —

    (a) includes a reference to units which the transferee has
         contracted to acquire; but

       (b) excludes units which are the subject of a contract binding
            the holder of the units to accept the offer when it is made,
            being a contract entered into by the holder for no
            consideration and under seal or for no consideration
            other than a promise by the transferee to make the offer.

                                                                                                             [2/2009]

 (13) Where, during the period within which an offer for the transfer
of units to the transferee can be approved, the transferee acquires or
contracts to acquire any of the units whose transfer is involved but
otherwise than by virtue of the approval of the offer, then the
transferee may be treated for the purposes of this section as having
acquired or contracted to acquire those units by virtue of the approval
of the offer if, and only if —

    (a) the consideration for which the units are acquired or
         contracted to be acquired (called in this subsection the
         acquisition consideration) does not at that time exceed the
         consideration specified in the terms of the offer; or

      (b) those terms are subsequently revised so that when the
           revision is announced the acquisition consideration, at the
           time mentioned in paragraph (a), no longer exceeds the
           consideration specified in those terms.

                                                                                                           [2/2009]

(14) In this section —

    “dissenting unitholder” includes a unitholder who has not
       assented to the arrangement or contract and any unitholder
       who has failed or refused to transfer the units of the
       unitholder to the transferee in accordance with the
       arrangement or contract;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 66

“real estate investment trust” has the meaning given by
   section 2(1) of the Securities and Futures Act 2001;

                                                                                          [2/2009; 4/2017]

                                                                       [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

“register of unitholders” includes any records kept by the
   trustee-manager of the subject trust, or with respect to the
   subject trust, of the names and addresses of holders of
   derivatives of units in a registered business trust.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (15) In this section and sections 40B and 40C, “units”, in relation to
a registered business trust, includes derivatives of units in a registered
business trust.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (16) In this section and section 40C, “unitholders” includes holders
of derivatives of units in a registered business trust but does not
include a person who holds derivatives of units in a business trust
only beneficially.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (17) Nothing in the definition of “units” in subsection (15) is to be
read as requiring any units to be treated —

(a) as units of the same class as those into which they are
     convertible or for which the holder is entitled to subscribe;
     or

(b) as units of the same class as other units by reason only that
     the units into which they are convertible or for which the
     holder is entitled to subscribe are of the same class.

                                                                    [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

Joint offers

 40B.—(1) In the case of an arrangement involving an offer to
acquire all of the units in a registered business trust, or all of the units
in any particular class in a registered business trust, by 2 or more
persons jointly (called in this section the joint transferees),
section 40A is to be read subject to this section.

 (2) The conditions for the exercise of the rights conferred by
section 40A(1) and (2) are satisfied —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
67  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) in the case of acquisitions of units by virtue of acceptances
         of the offer — by the joint transferees acquiring or
         unconditionally contracting to acquire the necessary units
         jointly; or

    (b) in other cases — by the joint transferees acquiring or
         unconditionally contracting to acquire the necessary units
         either jointly or separately.

 (3) The conditions for the exercise of the rights conferred by
section 40A(4) and (5) are satisfied —

    (a) in the case of acquisitions of units by virtue of acceptances
         of the offer — by the joint transferees acquiring or
         unconditionally contracting to acquire the necessary units
         jointly; or

    (b) in other cases — by the joint transferees acquiring or
         contracting (whether unconditionally or subject to
         conditions being met) to acquire the necessary units
         either jointly or separately.

 (4) Subject to this section, the rights and obligations of the
transferee under section 40A are respectively joint rights and joint
and several obligations of the joint transferees.

 (5) Subject to subsection (6), any notice or other document given or
sent by or to the joint transferees under section 40A is complied with
if the notice or document is given or sent by or to any of them.

 (6) The notice required to be given by the joint transferees under
section 40A(1) and (4) must be made by all of the joint transferees
and —

    (a) where one or more of them is a corporation, signed by a
         director or an equivalent person of that corporation; and

    (b) where one or more of them is a limited liability partnership
         or partnership, signed by any partner who has authority to
         bind the limited liability partnership or partnership, as the
         case may be.

                                                                        [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.                Business Trusts Act 2004                   68

Effect of impossibility, etc., of communicating or accepting
offer made under arrangement or contract

 40C.—(1) Where there are unitholders of units in a registered
business trust to whom an offer to acquire units in the registered
business trust is not communicated, that does not prevent the offer
from being an offer made under an arrangement or a contract for the
purposes of section 40A if —

(a) those unitholders have no address in Singapore registered
     with the trustee-manager of the registered business trust;

(b) the offer was not communicated to those unitholders —

          (i) in order not to contravene the law of a country or
              jurisdiction outside Singapore; or

          (ii) because communication to those unitholders would
               in the circumstances be unduly onerous; and

          (c) either —

          (i) the offer is published in the Gazette; or

          (ii) the offer can be inspected, or a copy of it obtained, at
               a place in Singapore or on a website, and a notice is
               published in the Gazette specifying the address of
               that place or website.

 (2) Where an offer is made to acquire units in a registered business
trust and there are persons for whom, by reason of the law of a
country or jurisdiction outside Singapore, it is impossible to accept
the offer, or more difficult to do so, that does not prevent the offer
from being made under an arrangement or a contract for the purposes
of section 40A.

(3) It is not to be inferred —

(a) that an offer which is not communicated to every
     unitholder of the registered business trust cannot be an
     offer made under an arrangement or a contract for the
     purposes of section 40A unless the requirements of
     subsection (1)(a), (b) and (c) are met; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
69  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) that an offer which is impossible, or more difficult, for
         certain persons to accept cannot be an offer made under an
         arrangement or a contract for those purposes unless the
         reason for the impossibility or difficulty is the reason
         mentioned in subsection (2).

                                                                        [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

Remedies in cases of oppression or injustice

 41.—(1) Any unitholder or any holder of a debenture of a registered
business trust may apply to the court for an order under this section on
the ground —

       (a) that the affairs of the registered business trust are being
            conducted by the trustee‑manager of the registered
            business trust, or the powers of the directors of the
            trustee‑manager of the registered business trust are being
            exercised, in a manner oppressive to one or more of the
            unitholders or holders of debentures of the registered
            business trust including the applicant or in disregard of the
            applicant’s or their interests as unitholders or holders of
            debentures of the registered business trust; or

       (b) that some act of the trustee‑manager of the registered
            business trust, carried out in its capacity as trustee‑manager
            of the registered business trust, has been done or is
            threatened or that some resolution of the unitholders or
            holders of debentures of the registered business trust or any
            class of them has been passed or is proposed which
            unfairly discriminates against or is otherwise prejudicial to
            one or more of the unitholders or holders of debentures of
            the registered business trust (including the applicant).

 (2) If on such application the court is of the opinion that either of the
grounds mentioned in subsection (1) is established, the court may,
with a view to bringing to an end to or remedying the matters
complained of, make any order that it thinks fit and, without limiting
the foregoing, the order may —

       (a) direct or prohibit any act or cancel or vary any transaction
            or resolution;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 70

(b) regulate the conduct of the affairs of the trustee‑manager of
     a registered business trust in relation to the registered
     business trust in future;

          (c) authorise civil proceedings against the directors of the
              trustee‑manager of the registered business trust to be
              brought in the name of or on behalf of all the unitholders of
              the registered business trust as a whole by any person or
              persons and on any terms that the court may direct;

(d) provide for the purchase of the units in or debentures of the
     registered business trust by other unitholders or holders of
     debentures of the registered business trust;

          (e) provide that the registered business trust be wound up; or

          (f) provide that the costs and expenses of and incidental to the
              application for the order are to be raised and paid out of the
              trust property of the registered business trust or to be borne
              and paid in any manner and by any persons that the court
              deems fit.

 (3) Where an order under this section makes any alteration in or
addition to the trust deed of any registered business trust, then, despite
anything in any other provision of this Act but subject to the
provisions of the order, the trustee‑manager of the registered business
trust concerned does not have power, without the permission of the
court, to make any further alteration in or addition to the trust deed
that is inconsistent with the provisions of the order; but subject to the
foregoing provisions of this subsection the alterations or additions
made by the order have the same effect as if duly made by special
resolution of the unitholders of the registered business trust.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (4) A copy of any order made under this section must be lodged by
the applicant with the Authority within 7 days after the making of the
order.

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (4) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
71  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

 (6) This section applies to a person who is not a unitholder of a
registered business trust but to whom units in the registered business
trust have been transmitted by operation of law as it applies to the
unitholders of a registered business trust; and references to a
unitholder or unitholders are to be construed accordingly.

Derivative or representative actions

 42.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a complainant may apply to the
court for permission to bring an action or arbitration in the name and
on behalf of all the unitholders of the registered business trust as a
whole or intervene in an action or arbitration to which the
trustee‑manager, on behalf of the registered business trust, is a
party for the purpose of prosecuting, defending or discontinuing the
action or arbitration on behalf of the trustee‑manager.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (2) No action or arbitration may be brought and no intervention in
an action or arbitration may be made under subsection (1) unless the
court is satisfied that —

       (a) the complainant has given 14 days’ notice to the directors
            of the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust of
            the complainant’s intention to apply to the court under
            subsection (1) if the directors of the trustee‑manager do not
            bring, diligently prosecute or defend or discontinue, the
            action or arbitration;

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

       (b) the complainant is acting in good faith; and

       (c) it appears to be prima facie in the interests of all the
            unitholders of the registered business trust as a whole that
            the action or arbitration be brought, prosecuted, defended
            or discontinued.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (3) Where a complainant on an application can establish to the
satisfaction of the court that it is not expedient to give notice as
required in subsection (2)(a), the court may make any interim order
that it thinks fit pending the complainant giving notice as required.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 72

 (4) In granting permission under this section, the court may make
any orders or interim orders that it thinks fit in the interests of justice,
including (but not limited to) the following:

       (a) an order authorising the complainant or any other person to
            control the conduct of the action or arbitration;

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

       (b) an order giving directions for the conduct of the action or
            arbitration by the person so authorised; and

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

       (c) an order requiring the trustee‑manager of a registered
            business trust in its capacity as trustee‑manager of the
            registered business trust to pay reasonable legal fees and
            disbursements incurred by the complainant in connection
            with the action or arbitration.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (5) Where an action has been commenced or is to be brought in the
State Courts, an application for permission under subsection (1) must
be made in a District Court.

                                                                                                             [5/2014]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (6) In this section and section 43, “complainant” means —

(a) any unitholder of a registered business trust; or

(b) any other person who, in the discretion of the court, is a
     proper person to make an application under this section.

Evidence of unitholders’ approval not decisive — court
approval to discontinue action under section 42

 43.—(1) An application made or an action brought or intervened in
under section 42 is not to be stayed or dismissed by reason only that it
is shown that an alleged breach of a right of or duty owed to all the
unitholders of the registered business trust as a whole has been or may
be approved by the unitholders of the registered business trust, but
evidence of approval by the unitholders may be taken into account by
the court in making an order under that section.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
73  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

 (2) An application made or an action brought or intervened in under
section 42 is not to be stayed, discontinued, settled or dismissed for
want of prosecution without the approval of the court given upon any
terms that the court thinks fit and, if the court determines that the
interest of any complainant may be substantially affected by such
stay, discontinuance, settlement or dismissal, the court may order any
party to the application or action to give notice to the complainant.

 (3) In an application made or an action brought or intervened in
under section 42, the court may at any time order the trustee‑manager
of the registered business trust in its capacity as trustee‑manager of
the registered business trust to pay to the complainant interim costs,
including legal fees and disbursements, but the complainant may be
accountable for such interim costs upon final disposition of the
application or action.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

                                    PART 7

       WINDING UP OF REGISTERED BUSINESS TRUST

Winding up under provision of trust deed

 44.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the trust deed of a registered
business trust may provide that the registered business trust is to be
wound up —

       (a) at a specified time;

       (b) in specified circumstances; or

       (c) on the happening of a specified event.

 (2) For the purposes of this section and section 47, any provision of
the trust deed of a registered business trust that purports to provide
that the registered business trust is to be wound up if the particular
company which is acting as the trustee‑manager of that registered
business trust ceases to be the trustee‑manager of that registered
business trust, has no effect.

 (3) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust may wind up
the registered business trust —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 74

(a) if the trust deed of the registered business trust provides
     that the business trust may or is to be wound up at a
     specified time, in specified circumstances or on the
     happening of a specified event;

(b) the specified time, circumstance or event has arisen; and

          (c) the winding up of the registered business trust has been
              approved by a majority of the number of votes of
              unitholders of the registered business trust who, being
              entitled to do so, vote in person or, where proxies are
              allowed, by proxy present at a general meeting convened in
              accordance with the requirements under Division 1 of
              Part 9.

Winding up at direction of unitholders

 45.—(1) Despite any provision in the trust deed of a registered
business trust, the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust
must wind up the registered business trust upon the passing of a
special resolution by the unitholders of the registered business trust at
a general meeting convened in accordance with Division 1 of Part 9
directing the trustee‑manager to wind up the registered business trust.

 (2) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $10,000
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

Winding up ordered by court

 46.—(1) A registered business trust may be wound up under an
order of the court on the application of —

       (a) the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust;

       (b) a director of the trustee‑manager of the registered business
            trust;

       (c) a unitholder of the registered business trust; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
75  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

       (d) a creditor of the registered business trust on the basis of
            subsection (2)(b).

                                                                                                           [42/2005]

 (2) The court may, on an application mentioned in subsection (1),
order the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust to wind up the
registered business trust if —

    (a) the court thinks it is just and equitable to make the order; or

    (b) within 3 months before the making of the application for
         the order, an enforcement order was issued to enforce a
         judgment, a decree or an order obtained in court, whether
         in Singapore or elsewhere, in favour of a creditor of the
         registered business trust and the enforcement order has
         been returned unsatisfied,

and upon such order, the trustee‑manager must wind up the registered
business trust.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2A) On an application for winding up on the ground specified in
subsection (2)(a), instead of making an order for the winding up, the
court may, if it is of the opinion that it is just and equitable to do so,
make an order for the interests in units of one or more unitholders to
be purchased by the trustee-manager of the registered business trust,
or by one or more other unitholders of the registered business trust, on
terms to the satisfaction of the court.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (3) The court may order the trustee‑manager of a registered
business trust to wind up the registered business trust on the
application of the Authority on any of the following grounds:

    (a) the registered business trust has carried on, promoted or
         participated in a pyramid selling scheme or arrangement
         within the meaning of section 2(1) of the Multi-Level
         Marketing and Pyramid Selling (Prohibition) Act 1973 in
         contravention of that Act;

    (b) the registered business trust is being used for an unlawful
         purpose or for purposes prejudicial to public peace, welfare
         or good order in Singapore or against national security or
         interest; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 76

          (c) a report has been made in respect of the registered business
              trust by an inspector appointed by the Minister under
              section 103,

and upon such order, the trustee‑manager must wind up the registered
business trust.

                                                                                                           [42/2005]

 (4) On the making of a winding up order by the court under
subsection (2), the applicant must within 7 days —

(a) lodge a copy of that order with the Authority; and

       (b) cause a copy of that order to be served upon the secretary
            of the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust or
            upon any other person and in any manner that the court
            may direct.

                                                                                                           [42/2005]

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (4) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$25,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $2,500 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Winding up of registered business trust

 47.—(1) Subject to section 48(1), the trustee‑manager of a
registered business trust must ensure that the registered business
trust is wound up in accordance with the trust deed of the registered
business trust or an order mentioned in section 48(2) in all cases of
winding up, including but not limited to the following situations:

       (a) the trust deed provides that the registered business trust is
            to be wound up at a specified time, in specified
            circumstances or on the happening of a specified event
            and —

               (i) the specified time, circumstance or event has arisen;
                   and

              (ii) the winding up of the registered business trust has
                   been approved by a majority of the number of votes
                   of unitholders of the registered business trust who,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
77  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

    being entitled to do so, vote in person or, where
    proxies are allowed, by proxy present at a general
    meeting convened in accordance with the
    requirements under Division 1 of Part 9;

    (b) the unitholders of the registered business trust pass a
         special resolution directing the trustee‑manager to wind up
         the registered business trust; or

    (c) the court makes an order directing the trustee‑manager to
        wind up the registered business trust.

 (2) Where a registered business trust is to be wound up, the
trustee‑manager of the registered business trust must —

    (a) give written notice of the proposed winding up to the
         Authority within 7 days after the passing of the resolution
         referred to in subsection (1)(a) or (b); and

    (b) within 10 days after the passing of the resolution referred
         to in subsection (1)(a) or (b), give notice of the resolution
         in one or more newspapers circulating in Singapore.

 (3) Upon the completion of the winding up of a registered business
trust in accordance with subsection (1), whether proposed by the
trustee‑manager of the registered business trust or otherwise, the
trustee‑manager must give written notice of the completed winding
up to the Authority within 2 business days of the completion.

 (4) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $10,000
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (5) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (2) or (3) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $25,000 and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding
$2,500 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 78

Court may make other orders for winding up

 48.—(1) The court may, by order, appoint a licensed insolvency
practitioner to take responsibility for winding up a registered business
trust in accordance with the trust deed of the registered business trust
and any order mentioned in subsection (2) if the court thinks it
necessary to do so for reasons including the cessation of the
trustee‑manager of the registered business trust to exist or the
failure of the trustee‑manager to properly discharge its obligations in
relation to the winding up, and upon such appointment by the court
and despite any provision in the trust deed, the trustee‑manager no
longer has any authority or power to wind up the registered business
trust.

                                                                                                           [40/2018]

 (2) The court may, by order, give directions as to —

(a) the procedures for the winding up of a registered business
     trust if the court thinks it necessary to do so for reasons
     including the inadequacy or impracticability of the
     provisions in the trust deed of the registered business
     trust; and

(b) the powers, duties, obligations and remuneration of the
     liquidator of a registered business trust.

 (3) An order mentioned in subsection (1) or (2) may be made on the
application of —

(a) the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust;

(b) a director of the trustee‑manager of a registered business
     trust;

          (c) a unitholder of a registered business trust;

(d) the Authority; or

          (e) a creditor of a registered business trust.

 (4) An order mentioned in subsection (2) may be made on the
application of the liquidator of a registered business trust.

 (5) Upon the completion of the winding up of a registered business
trust by a liquidator, the liquidator must give written notice of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
79  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

completed winding up to the Authority within 2 business days of the
completion.

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (5) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$25,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $2,500 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Unclaimed money to be paid to Official Receiver

 49.—(1) If the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust that is
being wound up or the liquidator of a registered business trust has in
its possession or under its control —

       (a) any unclaimed or undistributed moneys arising from the
            trust property of the registered business trust on
            completion of the winding up of the registered business
            trust; or

       (b) any unclaimed distribution of profits, income or other
            payments or returns to unitholders which have remained
            unclaimed for more than 6 months from the date when the
            distribution became payable,

the trustee‑manager or the liquidator must pay those moneys to the
Official Receiver to be placed to the credit of the Business Trusts
Liquidation Account and is entitled to the prescribed certificate of
receipt for the moneys so paid and that certificate is an effectual
discharge to the trustee‑manager or the liquidator in respect of the
moneys so paid.

 (2) The court may, on the application of the Official Receiver, order
the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust that is being wound
up or the liquidator of a registered business trust to submit to the court
an account of any unclaimed or undistributed funds, distributions or
other moneys in the hands or under the control of the trustee‑manager
or the liquidator verified by affidavit and may direct an audit thereof
and may direct the trustee‑manager or the liquidator to pay those
moneys to the Official Receiver to be placed to the credit of the
Business Trusts Liquidation Account.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 80

 (3) The interest arising from the investment of the moneys standing
to the credit of the Business Trusts Liquidation Account must be paid
into the Consolidated Fund.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, the court may exercise all the
powers conferred by this Act with respect to the discovery and
realisation of the property of the registered business trust and the
provisions of this Act with respect thereto apply, with such
adaptations as are prescribed, to proceedings under this section.

 (5) This section does not, except as expressly declared in this Act,
deprive any person of any other right or remedy to which the person is
entitled against the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust that
is being wound up or the liquidator of a registered business trust or
any other person.

 (6) If any claimant makes any demand for any money placed to the
credit of the Business Trusts Liquidation Account, the Official
Receiver, upon being satisfied that the claimant is the owner of the
money, must authorise payment of the money to be made to the
claimant out of that Account or, if it has been paid into the
Consolidated Fund, may authorise payment of a like amount to be
made to the claimant out of moneys made available by Parliament for
the purpose.

 (7) Any person dissatisfied with the decision of the Official
Receiver in respect of a claim made pursuant to subsection (6) may
appeal to the court which may confirm, disallow or vary the decision.

 (8) Where any unclaimed moneys paid to any claimant are
afterwards claimed by any other person, that other person is not
entitled to any payment out of the Business Trusts Liquidation
Account or out of the Consolidated Fund but such person may have
recourse against the claimant to whom the unclaimed moneys have
been paid.

 (9) Any unclaimed moneys paid to the credit of the Business Trusts
Liquidation Account to the extent to which the unclaimed moneys
have not been under this section paid out of that Account must, on the
lapse of 7 years from the date of the payment of the moneys to the
credit of that Account, be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
81  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

Responsibility for fraudulent trading

 50.—(1) If, in the course of the winding up of a registered business
trust or in any proceedings against the trustee‑manager in its capacity
as the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust, it appears that
an officer of the trustee‑manager who was knowingly a party to the
contracting of a debt on behalf of the registered business trust had, at
the time the debt was contracted, no reasonable or probable ground of
expectation, after taking into consideration the other liabilities of the
registered business trust (if any) at the time, of the trustee‑manager
being able to pay the debt from the trust property of the registered
business trust, the officer shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (2) Where a person has been convicted of an offence under
subsection (1) in relation to the contracting of such a debt mentioned
in that subsection, the court, on the application of the liquidator or any
creditor of the registered business trust or unitholder of the registered
business trust, may declare that the person is to be personally
responsible without any limitation of liability for the payment of the
whole or any part of that debt.

 (3) If, in the course of the winding up of a registered business trust
or in any proceedings against the trustee‑manager in its capacity as
the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust, it appears that
any business of the registered business trust has been carried on with
intent to defraud creditors of the registered business trust or creditors
of any other person or for any fraudulent purpose, the court, on the
application of the liquidator or any creditor of the registered business
trust or unitholder of the registered business trust, may declare that
any person who was knowingly a party to the carrying on of such
business of the registered business trust in that manner is to be
personally responsible, without any limitation of liability, for all or
any of the debts or other liabilities incurred by the trustee‑manager on
behalf of the registered business trust as the court directs.

 (4) Where the court makes any declaration pursuant to
subsection (2) or (3), the court may give any further directions for
the purpose of giving effect to that declaration, and in particular may

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 82

make provision for making the liability of any person (P) under the
declaration a charge on any debt or obligation due from the
trustee‑manager in its capacity as trustee‑manager of the registered
business trust to P, or on any charge or any interest in any charge on
any trust property of the registered business trust held by or vested in
P or any corporation or person on P’s behalf, or any person claiming
as assignee from or through P or any corporation or person acting on
P’s behalf, and may from time to time make any further order that is
necessary for the purpose of enforcing any charge imposed under this
subsection.

 (5) In subsection (4), “assignee” includes any person to whom or in
whose favour, by P’s directions, the debt, obligation or charge was
created, issued or transferred or the interest created, but does not
include an assignee for valuable consideration (not including
consideration by way of marriage) given in good faith and without
notice of any of the matters on the ground of which the declaration is
made.

 (6) Where any business of a registered business trust is carried on
with the intent or for the purpose mentioned in subsection (3), every
person who was knowingly a party to the carrying on of the business
with that intent or purpose shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $250,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 7 years or to both.

 (7) Subsection (6) applies to a registered business trust whether or
not it has been, or is in the course of being, wound up.

 (8) This section has effect even though the person concerned is
criminally liable apart from this section in respect of the matters on
the ground of which the declaration is made.

 (9) On the hearing of an application under subsection (2) or (3), the
liquidator may give evidence or call witnesses.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
83  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

    PART 8

    DEREGISTRATION

Voluntary deregistration by trustee‑manager

 51.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust may
apply to the Authority to deregister the registered business trust with
the Authority, if —

    (a) the deregistration of the registered business trust is
         approved by unitholders holding in aggregate at least
         three-fourths of the voting rights of all the unitholders of
         the registered business trust, who, being entitled to do so,
         vote in person or, where proxies are allowed, by proxy on a
         poll at a general meeting of which at least 21 days’ written
         notice specifying the intention to propose the resolution to
         deregister the registered business trust has been duly given;
         and

    (b) the resolution has not been voted against by unitholders
         holding in aggregate 10% or more of the voting rights of all
         the unitholders of the registered business trust who, being
         entitled to do so, vote in person or, where proxies are
         allowed, by proxy on a poll.

 (2) Where the Authority is satisfied that an application to deregister
a registered business trust is in compliance with subsection (1) and
the directors of the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust
have made a statutory declaration declaring that units in the business
trust —

    (a) are no longer held by any person other than —

    (i) a person who acquired units or derivatives of units in
        the business trust pursuant to an offer made in
        reliance on an exemption under section 274 of the
        Securities and Futures Act 2001;

    (ii) a person who acquired the units or derivatives of
         units in the business trust pursuant to an offer
         mentioned in section 275(1A) of that Act; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 84

          (iii) a relevant person as defined under section 275(2) of
                that Act; or

(b) are held by no more than 2 persons,

the Authority may deregister the registered business trust and, upon
the deregistration, the Authority must give notice of the deregistration
of the registered business trust in the Gazette.

                                                                                                             [4/2017]

 (3) The Authority must notify the trustee‑manager of a registered
business trust of the deregistration of the registered business trust.

Power of Authority to deregister defunct business trust

 52.—(1) Where the Authority has reasonable cause to believe that
the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust is not managing or
operating the business of the registered business trust, the Authority
may send to the trustee‑manager by post a letter to that effect and
stating that if an answer showing cause to the contrary is not received
within one month from the date of the letter, a notice will be published
in the Gazette with a view to deregistering the registered business
trust.

 (2) Unless the Authority receives an answer within one month from
the date of the letter mentioned in subsection (1) to the effect that the
trustee‑manager is managing and operating the business of the
registered business trust, the Authority may publish in the Gazette
and send to the trustee‑manager by registered post a notice that, at the
expiry of 3 months from the date of that notice, the Authority may
apply to the court to appoint a liquidator with respect to the registered
business trust.

 (3) Upon receiving a notice of the completion of the winding up of
the registered business trust from the liquidator mentioned in
subsection (2), as required under section 48(5), the Authority may
deregister the registered business trust, and must publish a notice
thereof in the Gazette, and on the publication in the Gazette of the
notice the business trust is deregistered; but the liability (if any) of
every officer of the trustee‑manager of the business trust and every
unitholder of the business trust continues and may be enforced as if
the business trust had not been wound up.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
85  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

 (4) If any person feels aggrieved by the deregistration of the
business trust, the court, on an application made by that person at any
time within 6 years after the business trust has been so deregistered
may, if satisfied that the trustee‑manager of the business trust was, at
the time of the deregistration of the business trust, managing and
operating the business of the business trust such that it is just that the
registration of the business trust should be reinstated, order the
registration of the business trust be reinstated; and upon a copy of the
order being lodged with the Authority, the business trust is deemed to
have continued to be registered as if it had never been deregistered,
and the court may by the order give any directions and make any
provisions as seem just for placing the trustee‑manager and all other
persons in the same position as nearly as may be as if the business
trust had not been deregistered.

 (5) A notice to be sent under this section to a trustee‑manager of a
registered business trust may be addressed to the trustee‑manager at
its registered office or, if no office has been registered, to the care of
some officer of the trustee‑manager.

                                    PART 9
             MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION

                Division 1 — Meetings and proceedings
Arrangements for meetings

 52R.—(1) This section applies to the following types of meetings:
       (a) any general meeting of the unitholders of a registered
            business trust (including an annual general meeting and an
            extraordinary general meeting);
       (b) any meeting of any class of unitholders;
       (c) a meeting ordered by the court under section 61, if the
            court so directs.

 (2) Unless excluded under subsection (5) or (8), a meeting to which
this section applies may be held —

       (a) at a physical place;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 86

(b) at a physical place and using virtual meeting technology; or

          (c) using virtual meeting technology only.

 (3) Where a meeting to which this section applies under
subsection (2)(b) or (c) is held, the meeting may be held without
any number of those participating in the meeting being together at the
same place.

 (4) Unless excluded or modified under subsection (5) or excluded
under subsection (8), where a meeting to which this section applies is
held (whether wholly or partly) using virtual meeting technology —

(a) a reference in this Act to any person (including any
     unitholder of a registered business trust) attending a
     meeting includes a person who is attending the meeting
     using virtual meeting technology;

(b) a reference in this Act to any person (including any
     unitholder of a registered business trust) present or
     personally present at a meeting includes a person who
     attends the meeting using virtual meeting technology;

          (c) subject to paragraph (f), a reference in this Act to a vote of a
              unitholder of a registered business trust at a meeting
              (including a vote for the purposes of electing a chairperson
              of a meeting), includes a vote by electronic means or any
              other means permitted by the trust deed of the registered
              business trust;

(d) subject to paragraph (f), a reference in this Act to voting by
     a unitholder of a registered business trust at a meeting
     (including voting for the purposes of electing a chairperson
     of a meeting), includes voting by electronic means or any
     other means permitted by the trust deed of the registered
     business trust;

          (e) subject to paragraph (f), a reference in this Act to the
              entitlement or right of a person to vote at a meeting
              includes, where the person is present by virtual meeting
              technology, the entitlement or right to vote by electronic
              means or any other means permitted by the trust deed of the
              registered business trust;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
87  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

    (f) a reference in this Act to voting by a unitholder of a
        registered business trust on a show of hands at a meeting
        includes, where the unitholder is present by virtual meeting
        technology, voting by the unitholder by electronic means
        or any other means permitted by the trust deed of the
        registered business trust but only if the unitholder can be
        identified —

    (i) by any method that may be prescribed relating to the
        verification or authentication of the identity of
        unitholders attending the meeting; or

    (ii) if no method is so prescribed, by any method that the
         directors of the trustee-manager of the business trust
         may determine;

    (g) a reference in this Act to the entitlement or right of a person
         to be heard at a meeting includes, where the person is
         present by virtual meeting technology, the entitlement or
         right to be heard by any means of synchronous
         communication that the directors of the trustee-manager
         of the registered business trust may determine;

    (h) a reference in this Act to the right of a unitholder of a
         registered business trust to speak on any resolution before a
         meeting includes, where the unitholder is present by virtual
         meeting technology, the right to communicate by any
         means of synchronous communication that the directors of
         the trustee-manager of the registered business trust may
         determine;

    (i) a reference in this Act to the right of a person to speak at a
        meeting includes, where the person is present by virtual
        meeting technology, the right to communicate by any
        means of synchronous communication that the directors of
        the trustee-manager of the registered business trust may
        determine;

    (j) a reference in this Act to any representation being read out
        or declaration being made at a meeting includes the
        communication of that representation or declaration at the
        meeting by any means of synchronous communication that

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 88

          the directors of the trustee-manager of the registered
          business trust may determine;

          (k) a reference in this Act to an auditor’s report being read
              before the unitholders of the registered business trust in
              general meeting includes the communication of the
              contents of that auditor’s report at the general meeting
              by any means of synchronous communication that the
              directors of the trustee-manager of the registered business
              trust may determine;

          (l) a reference in this Act to the production of the register of
              the trustee-manager of the registered business trust at the
              commencement of the annual general meeting and to the
              keeping of the register open and accessible during the
              meeting to all persons attending the meeting includes
              making the register available —

          (i) on a website during the meeting; or

          (ii) by any other means during the meeting that may be
               determined by a resolution passed by unitholders
               holding in the aggregate a majority of the voting
               rights of all the unitholders of the registered business
               trust who, being entitled to do so, vote in person or,
               where proxies are allowed, by proxy;

(m) a reference in this Act to the laying of a profit and loss
     account or statement before the unitholders of a registered
     business trust includes producing or making available the
     relevant document —

          (i) on a website; or

          (ii) by any other means that may be determined by a
               resolution passed by unitholders holding in the
               aggregate a majority of the voting rights of all the
               unitholders of the registered business trust who,
               being entitled to do so, vote in person or, where
               proxies are allowed, by proxy; and

(n) a reference in this Act to any accounts, balance sheet, cash
     flow statement, profit and loss account, report, statement,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
89  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

    auditor’s report or other document being laid or caused to
    be laid before the unitholders of a registered business trust
    includes the relevant document being produced or made
    available or caused to be produced or made available —

    (i) on a website; or

    (ii) by any other means that may be determined by a
         resolution passed by unitholders holding in the
         aggregate a majority of the voting rights of all the
         unitholders of the registered business trust who,
         being entitled to do so, vote in person or, where
         proxies are allowed, by proxy.

 (5) This section applies despite the provisions contained in the trust
deed of a registered business trust, except where —

    (a) in the case of a registered business trust registered before
         1 July 2023, the trust deed of the registered business trust is
         on or after that date modified or replaced —

    (i) to exclude the application of paragraph (b) or (c) of
        subsection (2) (or both) in respect of all or any
        meetings to which this section applies; or

    (ii) to exclude or modify the application of paragraphs
         (a) to (n) of subsection (4) (or any of those
         paragraphs) in respect of all or any meetings to
         which this section applies; or

    (b) in the case of a registered business trust registered on or
         after 1 July 2023 —

    (i) the trust deed of the registered business trust —

    (A) excludes the application of paragraph (b) or (c)
         of subsection (2) (or both) in respect of all or
         any meetings to which this section applies; or

    (B) excludes or modifies the application of
         paragraphs (a) to (n) of subsection (4) (or
         any of those paragraphs) in respect of all or any
         meetings to which this section applies; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 90

          (ii) the trust deed of the registered business trust is, at
               any time after the registered business trust is
               registered, modified or replaced —

          (A) to exclude the application of paragraph (b) or
               (c) of subsection (2) (or both) in respect of all
               or any meetings to which this section applies;
               or

          (B) to exclude or modify the application of
               paragraphs (a) to (n) of subsection (4) (or
               any of those paragraphs) in respect of all or any
               meetings to which this section applies.

 (6) In subsection (4), a reference to a person includes, where
appropriate, the person’s proxy.

 (7) In this section and section 114, “virtual meeting technology”
means any technology that allows a person to participate in a meeting
without being physically present at the place of meeting.

 (8) The Authority may, by order in the Gazette, exclude the
application of subsection (2)(c) in respect of any prescribed class of
registered business trusts.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

Annual general meeting

 53.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must
call a general meeting of the unitholders of the registered business
trust known as the “annual general meeting” once in every calendar
year and not more than 15 months after the holding of the last
preceding annual general meeting, but so long as the unitholders of
the registered business trust hold their first annual general meeting
within 18 months of the registration of the registered business trust,
the trustee‑manager need not call an annual general meeting in the
year of the registration of the registered business trust or in the
following year.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), the Authority, on the application of the
trustee‑manager of a registered business trust, may, if for any special
reason it thinks fit to do so, extend the period of 15 months or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
91  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

18 months mentioned in that subsection, even though the period is so
extended beyond the calendar year.

 (3) Subject to notice being given to all the unitholders of a
registered business trust entitled to receive notice of the meeting, a
general meeting may be held at any time and the unitholders of a
registered business trust may resolve that any meeting held or
summoned to be held is to be the annual general meeting of the
unitholders of the registered business trust.

 (4) If default is made in holding an annual general meeting of the
unitholders of a registered business trust —

    (a) the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust shall be
         guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
         fine not exceeding $50,000 and, in the case of a continuing
         offence, to a further fine not exceeding $5,000 for every
         day or part of a day during which the offence continues
         after conviction; and

    (b) the court may, on the application of any unitholder of the
         registered business trust, order a general meeting to be
         called.

Convening of extraordinary general meeting on requisition

 54.—(1) The directors of the trustee‑manager of a registered
business trust must, despite any provision in the trust deed of the
registered business trust, on the requisition of unitholders holding in
aggregate at the date of the deposit of the requisition at least 10% of
the total voting rights of all the unitholders of the registered business
trust having at that date a right to vote at general meetings,
immediately proceed duly to convene an extraordinary general
meeting of the unitholders of the registered business trust to be held
as soon as practicable but in any case not later than 2 months after the
receipt by the trustee‑manager of the requisition.

 (2) The requisition must state the objects of the meeting and must
be signed by the requisitionists and deposited at the registered office
of the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust, and may
consist of several documents in like form each signed by one or more
requisitionists.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 92

 (3) If the directors of the trustee‑manager of the registered business
trust do not, within 21 days after the date of the deposit of the
requisition, proceed to convene a meeting, the requisitionists or any
of them representing more than 50% of the total voting rights of all of
the requisitionists, may themselves convene a meeting, in the same
manner as nearly as possible as that in which meetings are to be
convened by the trustee‑manager, but any meeting so convened must
not be held after the expiry of 3 months from that date.

 (4) The trustee‑manager of the registered business trust must pay to
the requisitionists any reasonable expenses incurred by the
requisitionists by reason of the failure of the directors of the
trustee‑manager to convene a meeting and —

(a) the trustee‑manager is liable to make such payment to the
     requisitionists without any recourse to the trust property of
     the registered business trust for reimbursement of any
     expenses incurred as a result of that liability; and

(b) any sum so paid by the trustee‑manager to the
     requisitionists must be retained by the trustee‑manager
     out of any sums due or to become due from the
     trustee‑manager to the directors of the trustee‑manager
     by way of fees or other remuneration in respect of the
     services of those directors.

 (5) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (4) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $5,000
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

Calling of meetings

 55.—(1) Two or more unitholders of a registered business trust may
call a meeting of unitholders of the registered business trust if they —

       (a) hold in aggregate at least 10% of the total voting rights of
            all the unitholders having at the date of calling of the
            meeting a right to vote at general meetings of the
            unitholders of the registered business trust; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
93  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) constitute at least 5% in number of the unitholders of the
         registered business trust or any lesser number that is
         provided by the trust deed of the registered business trust.

 (2) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must call a
meeting of the unitholders of the registered business trust or of a class
of unitholders of the registered business trust, other than a meeting for
the passing of a special resolution, by written notice of at least
14 days or any longer period that is provided in the trust deed of the
registered business trust.

 (3) A meeting is, even though it is called by notice shorter than is
required by subsection (2), deemed to be duly called if it is so
agreed —

    (a) in the case of a meeting called as the annual general
         meeting, by all the unitholders entitled to attend and vote at
         that meeting; or

    (b) in the case of any other meeting, by a majority in number of
         the unitholders having a right to attend and vote at that
         meeting, being a majority which together holds at
         least 95% of the total voting rights of all the unitholders
         at that meeting.

 (4) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must serve
notice of every meeting on every unitholder of the registered business
trust having a right to attend and vote at that meeting in the manner in
which such notice is required to be served under the trust deed of the
registered business trust.

 (5) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (2) or (4) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding
$5,000 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

Provision in trust deed as to right to demand poll

 56.—(1) Any provision in the trust deed of a registered business
trust is void in so far as it would have the effect —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 94

(a) of excluding the right to demand a poll at a general meeting
     of the unitholders of the registered business trust on any
     question or matter other than the election of the
     chairperson of the meeting or the adjournment of the
     meeting;

(b) of making ineffective a demand for a poll on any question
     or matter other than the election of the chairperson of the
     meeting or the adjournment of the meeting that is made —

          (i) by at least 5 unitholders of the registered business
              trust having the right to vote at the meeting; or

              (ii) by a unitholder or unitholders of the registered
                   business trust representing at least 5% of the total
                   voting rights of all the unitholders having the right to
                   vote at the meeting; or

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

       (c) of requiring the instrument appointing a proxy or any other
            document necessary to show the validity of or otherwise
            relating to the appointment of a proxy to be received by the
            trustee‑manager of the registered business trust or any
            other person more than 72 hours before a meeting or
            adjourned meeting in order that the appointment may be
            effective at that meeting.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (1A) Despite subsection (1)(b), where any provision in the trust
deed of a registered business trust registered under this Act before the
date of commencement of section 21 of the Business Trusts
(Amendment) Act 2022 is void under subsection (1)(b)(ii), a
demand for a poll on any question or matter other than the election
of the chairperson of the meeting or the adjournment of the meeting
may be made by a unitholder or unitholders of the registered business
trust representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of all the
unitholders having the right to vote at the meeting.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (2) The instrument appointing a proxy to vote at a meeting of the
unitholders of a registered business trust is deemed to confer
authority to demand or join in demanding a poll, and for the
purposes of subsection (1), a demand by a person as proxy for a

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
95  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

unitholder of the registered business trust is deemed to be the same as
a demand by the unitholder.

 (3) A person entitled to vote on a poll at a meeting is deemed to be a
person entitled to vote for the purposes of this Act.

Quorum, chairperson, voting, etc., at meetings

 57.—(1) So far as the trust deed of a registered business trust does
not make any other provision in that behalf and subject to
section 58 —

       (a) 2 unitholders of the registered business trust personally
            present form a quorum;

       (b) any unitholder of the registered business trust elected by
            the unitholders present at a meeting may be chairperson of
            the meeting;

       (c) on a show of hands, each unitholder of the registered
            business trust who is personally present and entitled to vote
            has one vote; and

       (d) on a poll, each unitholder of the registered business trust
            has one vote in respect of each unit in the registered
            business trust held by the unitholder.

 (2) On a poll taken at a meeting, a person entitled to more than one
vote need not, if the person votes, use all the person’s votes or cast all
the votes the person uses in the same way.

Voting rights in respect of units in registered business trusts

 58. Despite any provision in this Act or in the trust deed of a
registered business trust, but subject to section 59, each unit in a
registered business trust confers the right at a poll at any general
meeting of the unitholders of the registered business trust to one vote,
and to one vote only.

Unitholder’s rights at meetings

 59. Every unitholder of a registered business trust, despite any
provision in the trust deed of the registered business trust, has a right
to attend any general meeting of the unitholders of the registered

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 96

business trust and to speak and vote on any resolution before the
meeting, except that the trust deed may provide that a unitholder is
not entitled to vote unless all calls or other sums personally payable
by the unitholder in respect of units in the registered business trust
have been paid.

Proxies

 60.—(1) Subject to this section, a unitholder of a registered
business trust entitled to attend and vote at a meeting of the
unitholders of the registered business trust, or at a meeting of any
class of unitholders of the registered business trust, is entitled to
appoint another person, whether a unitholder or not, as the
unitholder’s proxy to attend and vote instead of the unitholder at
the meeting.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (2) Subject to this section, a proxy appointed under subsection (1)
to attend and vote at a meeting of the unitholders of a registered
business trust instead of a unitholder of the registered business trust
also has the same right as the unitholder to speak at the meeting, but
unless the trust deed otherwise provides —

       (a) a proxy is not entitled to vote except on a poll;

       (b) a unitholder is not entitled to appoint more than 2 proxies
            to attend and vote at the same meeting; and

       (c) where a unitholder appoints 2 proxies, the appointments
            are invalid unless the unitholder specifies the proportions
            of the unitholder’s holdings to be represented by each
            proxy.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (2A) A unitholder of a registered business trust who is a relevant
intermediary may appoint more than 2 proxies in relation to a meeting
to exercise all or any of the unitholder’s rights to attend and to speak
and vote at the meeting, but each proxy must be appointed to exercise
the rights attached to a different unit or units held by the unitholder
(which number and class of units must be specified).

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
97  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

 (2B) A proxy appointed under subsection (2A) has at a meeting the
right to vote on a show of hands.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (3) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must, in every
notice calling a meeting of the unitholders of the registered business
trust or a meeting of any class of unitholders of the registered
business trust, provide with reasonable prominence a statement as to
the rights of a unitholder to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and
vote instead of the unitholder, and that a proxy need not also be a
unitholder.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (4) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
authorises or permits an invitation to appoint as proxy a person or
one of a number of persons specified in the invitation to be issued at
the expense of the registered business trust to only some of the
unitholders of the registered business trust entitled to be sent a notice
of the meeting and to vote at that meeting by proxy shall be guilty of
an offence.

 (5) A person is not guilty of an offence under subsection (4) by
reason only of the issue to a unitholder of a registered business trust at
the unitholder’s request of a form of appointment naming the proxy or
a list of persons willing to act as proxies if the form or list is available
on request in writing to every unitholder entitled to vote at the
meeting by proxy.

 (6) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
authorises or permits an invitation to appoint as proxy a person or
one of a number of persons specified in the invitation to be issued or
circulated shall be guilty of an offence unless the invitation is
accompanied by a form of proxy which entitles the unitholder of the
registered business trust to direct the proxy to vote either for or
against the resolution.

 (7) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence.

(8) In this section —

    “banking corporation” means a bank or merchant bank licensed
       under the Banking Act 1970;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 98

“relevant intermediary” means —

          (a) a banking corporation or a wholly owned subsidiary
               of a banking corporation, whose business includes
               the provision of nominee services and who holds
               units in that capacity;

          (b) a person holding a capital markets services licence to
               provide custodial services under the Securities and
               Futures Act 2001 and who holds units in that
               capacity; or

          (c) the Central Provident Fund Board established by the
              Central Provident Fund Act 1953, in respect of units
              purchased under the subsidiary legislation made
              under that Act providing for the making of
              investments from the contributions and interest
              standing to the credit of members of the Central
              Provident Fund, if the Central Provident Fund Board
              holds those units in the capacity of an intermediary
              pursuant to or in accordance with that subsidiary
              legislation;

“wholly owned subsidiary” has the meaning given by section 5B
   of the Companies Act 1967.

                                 [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

Power of court to order meeting

 61. If for any reason it is impracticable to call a meeting in any
manner in which meetings may be called or to conduct the meeting in
the manner provided by the trust deed or under this Act, the court
may, either of its own motion or on the application of any director of
the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust or of any unitholder
of the registered business trust who would be entitled to vote at the
meeting or of the personal representative of any deceased unitholder
of the registered business trust, order a meeting to be called, held and
conducted in any manner that the court thinks fit, and may give any
ancillary or consequential directions that it thinks expedient,
including a direction that one unitholder present in person or by
proxy is deemed to constitute the quorum for a meeting or that the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
99  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

personal representative of any deceased unitholder may exercise all
or any of the powers that the deceased unitholder could have
exercised if the unitholder were present at the meeting.

Circulation of unitholders’ resolutions, etc.

 62.—(1) Subject to this section, the trustee‑manager of a registered
business trust must, on the requisition of the number of unitholders of
the registered business trust specified in subsection (2) and unless the
unitholders of the registered business trust otherwise resolve at a
general meeting, at the expense of the requisitionists —

       (a) give to the unitholders of the registered business trust
            entitled to receive notice of the next annual general
            meeting, notice of any resolution which may properly be
            moved and is intended to be moved at that meeting or (if
            the resolution is proposed to be passed by written means
            under section 63A) for which agreement is sought; and

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

       (b) circulate to the unitholders entitled to have notice of any
            general meeting sent to them, any statement of not more
            than 1,000 words with respect to the matter referred to in
            any proposed resolution or the business to be dealt with at
            that meeting.

 (2) The number of unitholders of a registered business trust
necessary for a requisition under subsection (1) is —

       (a) any number of unitholders representing at least 5% of the
            total voting rights of all the unitholders of the registered
            business trust having at the date of the requisition a right to
            vote at the meeting to which the requisition relates; or

       (b) at least 100 unitholders holding units in the registered
            business trust on which there has been paid up an average
            sum, per unitholder, of at least $500.

 (3) Subject to subsection (3A), the trustee-manager of a registered
business trust must give the notice of a resolution mentioned in
subsection (1)(a) and the statement mentioned in subsection (1)(b) to
the unitholders of the registered business trust entitled to have notice
of the meeting sent to them by serving on each unitholder, in any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 100

manner permitted for service of the notice of the meeting, a copy of
the resolution and statement.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (3A) Where the resolution is proposed to be passed by written
means under section 63A, the trustee-manager of a registered
business trust must give and circulate the notice of the resolution
mentioned in subsection (1)(a) and statement mentioned in
subsection (1)(b) to the unitholders of the registered business trust
entitled to have notice of the meeting sent to them by serving on each
unitholder —

(a) a copy of the resolution and statement; and

       (b) a notification that formal agreement to the resolution is
            being sought under section 63A.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (3B) The trustee-manager of a registered business trust must give
notice of the resolution to any other unitholder of the registered
business trust by serving on the unitholder notice of the general effect
of the resolution in any manner permitted for giving the unitholder
notice of meetings of the unitholders of the registered business trust.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (4) Except where the resolution is proposed to be passed by written
means under section 63A, the trustee‑manager of a registered
business trust must serve the copy of the resolution mentioned in
subsection (3), or give notice of the general effect of the resolution
mentioned in subsection (3B) (as the case may be) in the same
manner and, so far as practicable, at the same time as the notice of the
meeting and, where it is not practicable for it to be served or given at
that time, the trustee‑manager must serve the copy of the resolution or
give notice of the general effect of the resolution as soon as
practicable thereafter.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (5) Subject to subsection (6A), the trustee‑manager of a registered
business trust is not bound under this section to give notice of any
resolution or to circulate any statement unless a copy of the
requisition signed by the requisitionists, or 2 or more copies which
between them contain the signatures of all the requisitionists, is
deposited at the registered office of the trustee‑manager —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
101  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

     (a) in the case of a requisition requiring notice of a resolution,
          at least 6 weeks before the meeting; and

       (b) in the case of any other requisition, at least one week
            before the meeting.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (6) Despite subsection (5), a copy of a requisition requiring notice
of a resolution deposited at the registered office of the
trustee‑manager is deemed to have been properly deposited for the
purposes of that subsection even if the copy was not deposited within
the time required by that subsection so long as the copy was deposited
before an annual general meeting is called and the annual general
meeting is called for a date 6 weeks or less after the copy has been
deposited.

 (6A) A trustee-manager of a registered business trust is not bound
under this section to give notice of any resolution which is proposed
to be passed by written means under section 63A, or to circulate any
statement relating thereto, unless —

     (a) the requisition setting out the text of the resolution and the
          statement is received by a director of the trustee-manager
          in legible form or a permitted alternative form; and

       (b) the notice states that formal agreement to the resolution is
            sought under section 63A.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (6B) Where the requisition under subsection (6A)(a) requests that
the date of its receipt by the trustee-manager of a registered business
trust be notified to a specified person, the directors of the trustee-
manager must, without delay after it is first received by a director of
the trustee-manager in legible form or a permitted alternative form,
notify that person of the date when it was first so received.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (7) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust is not bound
under this section to circulate any statement if the court is, on the
application either of the trustee‑manager or of any other person who
claims to be aggrieved, satisfied that the rights conferred by this
section are being abused to secure needless publicity for any
defamatory matter and the court may order the trustee‑manager’s

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 102

costs on an application under this section to be paid in whole or in part
by the requisitionists, even though the requisitionists are not parties to
the application.

 (8) Despite anything in the trust deed of a registered business trust,
the business which may be dealt with at an annual general meeting of
the unitholders of the registered business trust includes any resolution
of which notice is given in accordance with this section, and for the
purposes of this subsection, notice is deemed to have been so given
despite the accidental omission, in giving it, of one or more
unitholders of the registered business trust.

 (9) Any trustee-manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1), (3), (3A), (3B) or (4) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (10) Every director of the trustee-manager of a registered business
trust who contravenes subsection (6B) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (11) For the purposes of this section, something is “in legible form
or a permitted alternative form” if, and only if, it is sent or otherwise
supplied —

(a) in a form (such as a paper document) that is legible before
     being sent or otherwise supplied and does not change form
     during that process; or

(b) in another form that —

          (i) is currently agreed between the trustee-manager of
              the registered business trust and the person as a form
              in which the thing may be sent or otherwise supplied
              to the trustee-manager; and

          (ii) is such that documents sent or supplied in that form
               can (where particular conditions are met) be received
               in legible form or be made legible following receipt
               in non-legible form.

                                                                    [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
103                  Business Trusts Act 2004                 2020 Ed.

Special resolutions

 63.—(1) A resolution is considered a special resolution when it has
been passed by the unitholders of a registered business trust holding
in aggregate at least three-fourths of the voting rights of all the
unitholders of the registered business trust who, being entitled to do
so, vote in person or, where proxies are allowed, by proxy present at a
general meeting of which at least 21 days’ written notice specifying
the intention to propose the resolution as a special resolution has been
duly given.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), if it is so agreed by a majority in number
of the unitholders of a registered business trust having the right to
attend and vote at the meeting, being a majority which together holds
at least 95% of the total voting rights that could be exercised at that
meeting, a resolution may be proposed and passed as a special
resolution at a meeting of which written notice of a period less than
that required under subsection (1) has been given.

 (3) At any meeting at which a special resolution is submitted, a
declaration of the chairperson that the resolution is carried is, unless a
poll is demanded, conclusive evidence of the fact without proof of the
number or proportion of the votes recorded in favour of or against the
resolution.

 (4) At any meeting at which a special resolution is submitted, a poll
is deemed to be effectively demanded if demanded —

     (a) by such number of unitholders of a registered business trust
          for the time being entitled under the trust deed of the
          registered business trust to vote at the meeting as is
          specified in the trust deed, but it is not in any case
          necessary for more than 5 unitholders to make the demand;
          or

     (b) if no such provision is made by the trust deed, by
          3 unitholders so entitled, or by one unitholder or
          2 unitholders so entitled, if that unitholder holds or those
          2 unitholders together hold at least 10% of the total voting
          rights of all the unitholders having a right to vote at the
          meeting.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 104

 (5) In computing the majority on a poll demanded on the question
that a special resolution be passed, reference is to be had to the
number of votes cast for and against the resolution and to the number
of votes to which each unitholder is entitled by this Act or the trust
deed of the registered business trust.

Passing of resolutions by written means

 63A.—(1) Despite any other provision of this Act, the unitholders
of an unlisted registered business trust may pass any resolution by
written means in accordance with the provisions of this section and
sections 63B to 63G.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a resolution for which special
notice is required.

 (3) A special resolution is passed by written means if the resolution
indicates that it is a special resolution and if it has been formally
agreed on any date by one or more unitholders of the unlisted
registered business trust who on that date represent —

       (a) at least 75%; or

       (b) if the trust deed of the unlisted registered business trust
            requires a greater majority for that resolution, that greater
            majority,

of the total voting rights of all unitholders who on that date would
have the right to vote on that resolution at a general meeting of the
unitholders of the unlisted registered business trust.

 (4) An ordinary resolution is passed by written means if the
resolution does not indicate that it is a special resolution and if it has
been formally agreed on any date by one or more unitholders of the
unlisted registered business trust who on that date represent —

       (a) a majority; or

       (b) if the trust deed of the unlisted registered business trust
            requires a greater majority for that resolution, that greater
            majority,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
105  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

of the total voting rights of all the unitholders who on that date would
have the right to vote on that resolution at a general meeting of the
unitholders of the unlisted registered business trust.

 (5) For the purposes of this section, a resolution of the unitholders
of an unlisted registered business trust is formally agreed by a
unitholder if —

     (a) the trustee-manager of the unlisted registered business trust
          receives from the unitholder (or the unitholder’s proxy if
          this is allowed) a document that —

     (i) is given to the trustee-manager in legible form or a
         permitted alternative form;

     (ii) indicates the unitholder’s agreement (or agreement
          on the unitholder’s behalf) to the resolution by way
          of the unitholder’s signature (or the unitholder’s
          proxy’s signature if that is allowed), or any other
          method that the trust deed of the unlisted registered
          business trust may provide; and

     (iii) includes the text of the resolution or otherwise makes
           clear that it is that resolution that is being agreed to;
           and

     (b) the unitholder (or the unitholder’s proxy) had a legible text
          of the resolution before giving that document.

 (6) Nothing in subsection (3) or (4) is to be construed as requiring
the requisite number of unitholders to formally agree to the resolution
on a single day.

 (7) For the purposes of this section, something is “in legible form or
a permitted alternative form” if, and only if, it is sent or otherwise
supplied —

     (a) in a form (such as a paper document) that is legible before
          being sent or otherwise supplied and does not change form
          during that process; or

     (b) in another form that —

     (i) is currently agreed between the trustee-manager of
         the unlisted registered business trust and the person

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 106

          as a form in which the thing may be sent or otherwise
          supplied to the trustee-manager; and

          (ii) is such that documents sent or supplied in that form
               can (where particular conditions are met) be received
               in legible form or be made legible following receipt
               in non-legible form.

 (8) Any reference in this Act or any other law to the passing or
making of a resolution, or the passing or making of a resolution at a
meeting of the unitholders of the unlisted registered business trust,
includes a reference to the passing of the resolution by written means
in accordance with this section.

 (9) Any reference in this Act or any other law to the doing of
anything at a general meeting of the unitholders of an unlisted
registered business trust includes a reference to the passing of a
resolution authorising the doing of that thing by written means in
accordance with this section.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

Requirements for passing of resolutions by written means

 63B.—(1) A resolution of the unitholders of an unlisted registered
business trust may only be passed by written means if —

       (a) either —

               (i) agreement to the resolution was first sought by the
                   directors of the trustee-manager of the unlisted
                   registered business trust in accordance with
                   section 63C; or

              (ii) a requisition for that resolution was first given to the
                   trustee-manager of the unlisted registered business
                   trust in accordance with section 62 and, by reason of
                   that notice, the documents mentioned in
                   section 62(3A) in respect of the resolution were
                   served on the unitholders of the unlisted registered
                   business trust in accordance with section 62(3A);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
107  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

     (b) the trust deed of the unlisted registered business trust does
          not prohibit the passing of resolutions (either generally or
          for the purpose in question) by written means; and

     (c) all conditions in the trust deed of the unlisted registered
         business trust relating to the passing of the resolution by
         written means are met.

 (2) Any resolution that is passed in contravention of subsection (1)
is invalid.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

Where directors seek agreement to resolution by written means

 63C.—(1) The directors of the trustee-manager of an unlisted
registered business trust who wish to seek agreement to a resolution
of the unitholders of the unlisted registered business trust and for it to
be passed by written means must send to each unitholder, having the
right to vote on that resolution at a general meeting of the unitholders
of the unlisted registered business trust, a copy of the text of the
resolution.

 (2) As far as practicable, the directors must comply with
subsection (1) as respects every unitholder at the same time and
without delay.

 (3) Without limiting any other means of complying with
subsections (1) and (2), the directors have complied with those
subsections if they secure that the same paper document containing
the text of the resolution is sent without delay to each unitholder in
turn.

 (4) Subject to section 63D, if the resolution is passed before the
directors have complied with subsection (1) as respects every
unitholder, that fact does not affect the validity of the resolution or
any obligation already incurred by the directors under subsections (1)
and (2).

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

Unitholders may require general meeting for resolution

 63D.—(1) Any unitholder or unitholders of an unlisted registered
business trust representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of all

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 108

the unitholders having the right to vote on a resolution at a general
meeting of the unitholders of the unlisted registered business trust
may, within 7 days after —

(a) the text of the resolution has been sent to the unitholder or
     unitholders in accordance with section 63C; or

(b) the documents mentioned in section 62(3A) in respect of
     the resolution have been served on the unitholder or
     unitholders,

(as the case may be) give notice to the trustee-manager of the unlisted
registered business trust requiring that a general meeting of the
unitholders of the unlisted registered business trust be convened for
that resolution.

(2) Where notice is given under subsection (1) —

(a) the resolution is invalid even though it may have in the
     meantime been passed in accordance with section 63A;
     and

(b) the directors of the trustee-manager of the unlisted
     registered business trust must proceed to convene a
     general meeting of the unitholders of the unlisted
     registered business trust for the resolution.

                                                                    [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

Period for agreeing to written resolution

 63E.—(1) Unless the trust deed of an unlisted registered business
trust otherwise provides, a resolution of the unitholders of the
unlisted registered business trust proposed to be passed by written
means lapses if it is not passed before the end of the period of 28 days
starting on the date on which the written resolution is circulated to the
unitholders of the unlisted registered business trust.

 (2) The agreement to a resolution is ineffective if indicated after the
expiry of the period mentioned in subsection (1).

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
109  Business Trusts Act 2004                                  2020 Ed.

Duty of trustee-manager of unlisted registered business trust to
notify unitholders that resolution passed by written means

 63F.—(1) Where a resolution of the unitholders of an unlisted
registered business trust is passed by written means, the trustee-
manager of the unlisted registered business trust must —

     (a) notify every unitholder that it has been passed; and

     (b) do so within 15 days after the earliest date on which a
          director or secretary of the trustee-manager is aware that it
          has been passed.

 (2) Non-compliance with subsection (1) does not render the
resolution invalid.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

Recording of resolutions passed by written means

 63G.—(1) Where a resolution of the unitholders of an unlisted
registered business trust is passed by written means, the trustee-
manager of the unlisted registered business trust must cause a record
of the resolution, and the indication of each unitholder’s agreement
(or agreement on the unitholder’s behalf) to it, to be entered in a book
in the same way as minutes of proceedings of a general meeting of the
unitholders of the unlisted registered business trust.

 (2) Non-compliance with subsection (1) does not render the
resolution invalid.

 (3) Any such record, if purporting to be signed by a director or the
secretary of the trustee-manager of the unlisted registered business
trust, is evidence of the proceedings in passing the resolution.

 (4) Where a record is made in accordance with this section, then,
until the contrary is proved, the requirements of this Act with respect
to those proceedings are deemed to have been complied with.

 (5) Section 68 applies in relation to a record made in accordance
with this section as it applies in relation to minutes of proceedings of a
general meeting of the unitholders of a registered business trust.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 110

Resolutions requiring special notice

 64.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), where by this Act special notice
is required of a resolution, the resolution is not effective unless —

(a) notice of the intention to move it has been given to the
     trustee‑manager of a registered business trust at least
     28 days before the meeting at which it is moved; and

(b) the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust has given
     the unitholders of the registered business trust notice of any
     such resolution at the same time and in the same manner as
     it gives notice of the meeting or, if that is not practicable,
     has given them notice of such resolution, in any manner
     allowed by the trust deed of the registered business trust, at
     least 14 days before the meeting.

 (2) If a meeting is called for a date 28 days or less after notice of the
intention to move a resolution mentioned in subsection (1) has been
given to the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust, such
notice is, although not given to the trustee‑manager within the time
required by that subsection, deemed to be properly given.

Registration and copies of certain resolutions

 65.—(1) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, the
trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must lodge with the
Authority a copy of —

       (a) every special resolution; and

       (b) every resolution passed by any class of unitholders of the
            registered business trust whether agreed to by all the
            unitholders of that class or not,

within 14 days after the passing or making of every such resolution.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (2) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must, at the
request of any unitholder of the registered business trust and without
charge, forward to the unitholder a copy of every resolution to which
this section applies.

 (3) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
111  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding
$1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

Resolutions at adjourned meetings

 66. Where a resolution is passed at an adjourned meeting of the
unitholders of a registered business trust or of unitholders of any class
of units in the registered business trust, the resolution is for all
purposes to be treated as having been passed on the date on which it
was in fact passed and not on any earlier date.

Minutes of proceedings

 67.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must
cause —

       (a) minutes of all proceedings of general meetings of the
            unitholders of the registered business trust to be entered in
            books kept for that purpose within one month of the date
            upon which the relevant meeting was held; and

       (b) those minutes to be signed by the chairperson of the
            meeting at which the proceedings were had or by the
            chairperson of the next succeeding meeting.

 (2) Any minutes so entered that are purported to be signed as
provided in subsection (1) are evidence of the proceedings to which
they relate, unless the contrary is proved.

 (3) Where minutes have been so entered and signed, then, until the
contrary is proved —

       (a) the meeting is deemed to have been duly held and
            convened; and

       (b) all proceedings had at that meeting are deemed to have
            been duly had.

 (3A) The trustee-manager of a registered business trust must keep
minute books in which it must cause to be entered resolutions passed

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 112

by written means under section 63A, within one month after the
passing or making of each resolution.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (3B) The trustee-manager of a registered business trust must ensure
that the minutes of the passing of a resolution mentioned in
subsection (3A) are signed by a director of the trustee-manager
within a reasonable time after the resolution is passed.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (3C) Minutes entered in accordance with subsection (3A) and
purportedly signed in accordance with subsection (3B) are evidence
of the resolution to which they relate, unless the contrary is proved.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (4) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1), (3A) or (3B) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$25,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $2,500 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

Inspection of minute books

 68.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must —

       (a) keep the books mentioned in section 67(1) and (3A) at the
            registered office or the principal place of business in
            Singapore of the trustee‑manager; and

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

       (b) make the books available for inspection by any unitholder
            of the registered business trust without charge.

 (2) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must, within
14 days after any unitholder of the registered business trust has made
a request in writing for a copy of any minutes specified in
section 67(1) or (3A), provide that unitholder with a copy of the
minutes without charge.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (3) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $25,000 and, in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
113  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding
$2,500 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

                           Division 2 — Registers

Register of unitholders

 69.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must —

       (a) keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, a
            register of the unitholders of the registered business trust;
            and

       (b) make that register available for inspection, without charge,
            by any person during the business hours of the
            trustee‑manager.

 (2) The register mentioned in subsection (1) must contain —

       (a) the name and address of each unitholder of the registered
            business trust;

       (b) the extent of holding by each unitholder of units in the
            registered business trust;

       (c) the date on which the name of each person was entered in
            the register as a unitholder; and

       (d) the date on which any person ceased to be a unitholder.

 (3) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $25,000 and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $2,500
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (4) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust is not by
reason of anything done under Subdivision (1) of Division 2 of Part 7
of the Securities and Futures Act 2001 —

       (a) to be taken for any purpose to have notice of; or

       (b) to be put upon inquiry as to,

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 114

a right of a person to or in relation to a unit in the registered business
trust for the purposes of this section.

                                                                                                             [2/2009]

Place at which register is kept

 70.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must
keep the register mentioned in section 69 at its registered office,
but —

       (a) if the work of making up the register is done at another
            office of the trustee‑manager in Singapore, the register
            may be kept at that other office; or

       (b) if the trustee‑manager arranges with some other person to
            make up the register on its behalf, the register may be kept
            at the office of that other person at which the work is done
            if that office is in Singapore.

 (2) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must, within
14 days after the register is first kept at a place other than the
registered office, lodge with the Authority notice of the place where
the register is kept and must, within 14 days after any change in the
place at which the register is kept, lodge with the Authority notice of
the change.

 (3) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $25,000 and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding
$2,500 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

Consequences of default by agent

 71. Where, by virtue of section 70(1)(b), the register of the
unitholders of a registered business trust is kept at the office of a
person (P) other than the trustee‑manager of the registered business
trust and, by reason of any default of P, the trustee‑manager fails to
comply with section 70(1) or (2) or any other provision of this Act as
to the production of the register, P shall be liable to the same penalties
as if P were an officer of the trustee‑manager in accordance with

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
115  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

section 109, and the power of the court under section 102 extends to
the making of orders against P and P’s officers and employees.

Power of court to rectify register

 72.—(1) If —

       (a) the name of any person is without sufficient cause entered
            in or omitted from the register of the unitholders of a
            registered business trust mentioned in section 69(1); or

       (b) default is made or unnecessary delay takes place in
            entering in the register the fact of any person having
            ceased to be a unitholder,

the person aggrieved or any unitholder or the trustee‑manager of the
registered business trust, on behalf of the registered business trust,
may apply to the court to rectify the register, and the court may refuse
the application or may order rectification of the register and payment
by the trustee‑manager of any damages sustained by any party to the
application.

 (2) On any application under subsection (1), the court may
decide —

       (a) any question relating to the title of any person who is a
            party to the application to have the person’s name entered
            in or omitted from the register of unitholders of a registered
            business trust mentioned in section 69(1), whether the
            question arises between unitholders or alleged unitholders
            or between unitholders or alleged unitholders on the one
            hand and the trustee‑manager of the registered business
            trust on the other hand; and

       (b) generally, any question necessary or expedient to be
            decided for the rectification of the register.

 (3) The court when making an order to rectify a register of the
unitholders of a registered business trust is to direct, by its order, a
notice of the rectification to be so lodged with the Authority.

 (4) No application to rectify a register of the unitholders of a
registered business trust in respect of an entry which was made in the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 116

register more than 30 years before the date of the application is to be
entertained by the court.

Limitation of liability of trustee, etc., registered as holder of
units

 73.—(1) Any trustee, executor or administrator of the estate of any
deceased person who was registered in a register of the unitholders of
a registered business trust, mentioned in section 69(1) and kept in
Singapore, as the holder of a unit in the registered business trust may
become registered as the holder of that unit as trustee, executor or
administrator of that estate and is in respect of that unit subject to the
same liabilities and no more as the trustee, executor or administrator
would have been subject to if the unit had remained registered in the
name of the deceased person.

 (2) Any trustee, executor or administrator of the estate of any
deceased person who was beneficially entitled to a unit in a registered
business trust (being a unit registered in a register of the unitholders
of the registered business trust mentioned in section 69(1) and kept in
Singapore) may, with the consent of the trustee‑manager of the
registered business trust on behalf of the registered business trust and
of the registered holder of that unit, become registered as the holder of
the unit as trustee, executor or administrator of that estate and is in
respect of the unit subject to the same liabilities and no more as the
trustee, executor or administrator would have been subject to if the
unit had been registered in the name of the deceased person.

 (3) Units in a registered business trust registered in a register of the
unitholders of the registered business trust, mentioned in
section 69(1) and kept in Singapore, and held by a trustee in
respect of a particular trust must, at the trustee’s request, be marked in
the register in such a way as to identify them as being held in respect
of the trust.

 (4) Subject to this section, no notice of any trust expressed, implied
or constructive is to be entered in a register of the unitholders of a
registered business trust mentioned in section 69(1) or is to be
receivable by the Authority and no liabilities are affected by anything
done pursuant to subsection (1), (2) or (3) or pursuant to the law of
any other place which corresponds to this section and the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
117  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

trustee‑manager of the registered business trust concerned is not
affected with notice of any trust by anything so done.

                        Division 3 — Annual Return

Annual returns and information

 74.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must
lodge with the Authority, within one month after the annual general
meeting of the unitholders of the registered business trust, a return
containing such statements and particulars as may be prescribed by
the Authority.

 (2) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $5,000
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

                                   PART 10

              ACCOUNTS, AUDIT AND DISCLOSURE

                           Division 1 — Accounts

Accounting records and systems of control

 75.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must
cause to be kept such accounting records and other records as will
sufficiently explain the transactions by the trustee‑manager entered
into on behalf of the registered business trust and financial position of
the registered business trust and enable true and fair accounts and any
documents required to be attached to the accounts to be prepared from
time to time, and must cause those records to be kept in such manner
as to enable them to be conveniently and properly audited.

 (2) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must retain
the records mentioned in subsection (1) for at least 5 years from the
end of the financial year in which the transactions or operations to
which those records relate are completed.

                                                                                                             [2/2007]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 118

 (3) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must devise
and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to
provide a reasonable assurance that —

(a) assets that are part of the trust property of the registered
     business trust are safeguarded against loss from
     unauthorised use or disposition; and

(b) transactions by the trustee‑manager entered into on behalf
     of or purported to be entered into on behalf of the
     registered business trust are properly authorised and that
     they are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of
     true and fair accounts and to maintain accountability of
     assets.

 (4) The records mentioned in subsection (1) must be kept at the
registered office of the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust
or at any other place that it thinks fit and must at all times be open to
inspection by the directors of the trustee‑manager.

 (5) If accounting records and other records are kept by the
trustee‑manager of a registered business trust at a place outside
Singapore, the trustee‑manager must send to and keep at a place in
Singapore, and make available at all times for inspection by the
directors of the trustee‑manager, such statements and returns with
respect to the business dealt with in the records so kept as will enable
to be prepared true and fair accounts and any documents required to
be attached to the accounts.

 (6) The court may in any particular case order that the accounting
records and other records of a registered business trust be open to
inspection by a public accountant acting for a director of the
trustee‑manager of the registered business trust, but only upon a
written undertaking given to the court that information acquired by
the public accountant during the public accountant’s inspection will
not be disclosed by the public accountant to any person other than that
director.

 (7) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1), (2), (3), (4) or (5) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
119  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

 (8) Any officer of the trustee‑manager who knowingly contravenes
or permits or authorises the contravention of this section shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Accounts and directors’ report

 76.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must, at
a date not later than 18 months after the registration of the registered
business trust and subsequently at least once in every calendar year at
intervals of not more than 15 months, lay before the unitholders of the
registered business trust at their annual general meeting a profit and
loss account of the registered business trust for the period since the
preceding account (or in the case of the first account, since the
registration of the registered business trust) made up to a date —

       (a) in the case of a registered business trust listed or quoted on
            an approved exchange in Singapore, not more than
            4 months before the date of the meeting; and

       (b) in the case of any other registered business trust, not more
            than 6 months before the date of the meeting.

                                                                                                             [4/2017]

 (2) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must ensure
that the profit and loss account mentioned in subsection (1) gives a
true and fair view of the profit and loss of the registered business trust
for the period of accounting as shown in the accounting and other
records of the registered business trust.

 (3) The Authority may, by order in the Gazette, specify any other
period in substitution of the period mentioned in subsection (1)(a)
or (b).

 (4) Despite subsection (1), the Authority may, on application by the
trustee‑manager of a registered business trust and for any special
reason it thinks fit, extend the periods of 18 months and 15 months
mentioned in that subsection and with respect to any year extend the
period referred to in subsection (1)(a) or (b), even though the period is
so extended beyond the calendar year.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 120

 (5) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must cause to
be made out, and to be laid before the unitholders of the registered
business trust at their annual general meeting with the profit and loss
account required by subsection (1) —

(a) a balance sheet of the registered business trust as at the date
     to which the profit and loss account is made up, being a
     balance sheet that gives a true and fair view of the state of
     affairs of the registered business trust as at the end of the
     period to which it relates; and

(b) a cash flow statement of the registered business trust that
     gives a true and fair view of the cash flow of the business of
     the registered business trust for the period of accounting of
     the profit and loss account mentioned in subsection (1).

 (6) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must, before
the profit and loss account, balance sheet and cash flow statement
mentioned in subsections (1) and (5) are made out, take reasonable
steps —

(a) to —

          (i) ascertain what action has been taken in relation to the
              writing off of bad debts and the making of provisions
              for doubtful debts; and

          (ii) cause all known bad debts to be written off and
               adequate provision to be made for doubtful debts;

(b) to ascertain whether any current assets (other than current
     assets to which paragraph (a) applies) are unlikely to
     realise in the ordinary course of business their value as
     shown in the accounting records of the registered business
     trust and, if so, to cause —

          (i) those assets to be written down to an amount which
              they might be expected so to realise; or

          (ii) adequate provision to be made for the difference
               between the amount of the value as so shown and the
               amount that they might be expected so to realise; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
121  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

     (c) to ascertain whether any non-current asset is shown in the
         books of the registered business trust at an amount which,
         having regard to its value to the registered business trust as
         a going concern, exceeds the amount which would be
         recoverable over its useful life or on its disposal and
         (unless adequate provision for writing down that asset is
         made) to cause to be included in the accounts such
         information and explanations as will prevent the accounts
         from being misleading by reason of the overstatement of
         the amount of that asset.

(7) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must cause —

     (a) the accounts mentioned in subsection (9) to be duly audited
          before they are laid before the unitholders of the registered
          business trust at their annual general meeting as required
          by this section; and

     (b) the auditor’s report required by section 84 to be attached to
          or endorsed upon those accounts.

(8) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must —

     (a) take reasonable steps to ensure that the accounts mentioned
          in subsection (9) are audited as required by this Part at
          least 14 days before the annual general meeting of the
          unitholders of the registered business trust; and

     (b) cause to be attached to the accounts the auditor’s report that
          is provided to the trustee‑manager of the registered
          business trust under section 84(2).

 (9) In subsections (7) and (8), “accounts” means the profit and loss
account, balance sheet and cash flow statement of a registered
business trust required to be laid before the unitholders of the
registered business trust at the annual general meeting under
subsections (1) and (5).

 (10) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must cause
to be attached to every balance sheet of the registered business trust
made out under subsection (5) a report —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.       Business Trusts Act 2004                            122

(a) containing the information required in subsections (11),
     (12), (15) and (17) and any other information as may be
     prescribed by the Authority;

(b) made in accordance with a resolution of the directors of the
     trustee‑manager; and

          (c) signed by at least 2 of the directors with respect to the
              profit or loss of the registered business trust for the
              financial year and the state of the affairs of the registered
              business trust as at the end of the financial year.

 (11) The report to which subsection (10) relates must state with
appropriate details —

(a) the names of all directors of the trustee‑manager of the
     registered business trust in office at the date of the report;

(b) whether —

          (i) at the end of the financial year to which the report
              relates, there subsists any arrangement to which the
              trustee‑manager is a party, being an arrangement
              whose object is to enable any director or all directors
              of the trustee‑manager to acquire benefits by means
              of the acquisition of units in, or debentures of, the
              registered business trust; or

          (ii) there have, at any time in that year, subsisted such an
               arrangement as aforesaid to which the
               trustee‑manager was a party,

(b) and if so, the report must contain a statement explaining the
     effect of the arrangement and giving the names of the
     persons who at any time in that year were directors of the
     trustee‑manager and held, or whose nominees held, units
     in, or debentures of, the registered business trust acquired
     pursuant to the arrangement; and

          (c) as respects each person who, at the end of the financial year
              to which the report relates, was a director of the
              trustee‑manager —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
123  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

     (i) whether or not he or she was, at the end of that
         financial year, interested in units in, or debentures of,
         the registered business trust, or both, and, if he or she
         was, the number and amount of units in, or
         debentures of, the registered business trust, or both,
         in which he or she was then interested; and

     (ii) whether or not he or she was, at the beginning of that
          year (or, if he or she was not then a director, when he
          or she became a director), interested in units in, or
          debentures of, the registered business trust, or both,
          and, if he or she was, the number and amount of units
          in, or debentures of, the registered business trust, or
          both, in which he or she was interested at the
          beginning of that year or when he or she became a
          director, as the case may be.

 (12) The report mentioned in subsection (10) must also contain
such additional information as the Authority may prescribe, being
information which the Authority considers necessary to facilitate an
understanding by the unitholders of the registered business trust of
the business of the registered business trust.

 (13) To avoid doubt, the additional information mentioned in
subsection (12) need not relate to the profit or loss or the state of
affairs of the registered business trust mentioned in subsection (10).

 (14) Every statement, report or other document relating to the state
of affairs of a registered business trust attached to, or included with, a
report of the directors of the trustee‑manager of a registered business
trust laid before the unitholders of the registered business trust at their
general meeting or sent to the unitholders under section 78 (not being
a statement, report or document required by this Act to be laid before
the unitholders in general meeting) is, for the purposes of section 108,
deemed to be part of that last mentioned report.

 (15) Where the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust has
granted an option to any person to acquire unissued units in the
registered business trust, the report required by subsection (10) must
state —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 124

(a) the number and class of the units in respect of which the
     option has been granted;

(b) the expiry date of the option; and

          (c) the basis upon which the option may be exercised.

 (16) Where any of the particulars required by subsection (15) has
been stated in a previous report, it may be stated by reference to that
report.

(17) Each report required by subsection (10) must specify —

(a) particulars of units issued during the period to which the
     report relates by virtue of the exercise of options to acquire
     unissued units in the registered business trust, whether
     granted before or during that period; and

(b) the number and class of unissued units in the registered
     business trust under option as at the end of that period, the
     price, or method of fixing the price, of issue of those units,
     and the expiry date of the option.

 (18) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must include
with every balance sheet, profit and loss account and cash flow
statement laid before the unitholders of the registered business trust in
general meeting, before the auditor reports on the accounts under this
Part, a statement made in accordance with a resolution of the directors
of the trustee‑manager and signed by at least 2 of the directors, stating
whether in their opinion —

(a) the profit and loss account is drawn up so as to give a true
     and fair view of the results of the business of the registered
     business trust for the period covered by the account;

(b) the balance sheet is drawn up so as to exhibit a true and fair
     view of the state of affairs of the registered business trust as
     at the end of that period;

          (c) the cash flow statement is drawn up so as to exhibit a true
              and fair view of the cash flow of the business of the
              registered business trust for the period covered by the
              statement; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
125  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

     (d) at the date of the statement there are reasonable grounds to
          believe that the trustee‑manager will be able to fulfil, out of
          the trust property of the registered business trust, the
          liabilities of the registered business trust as and when they
          fall due.

 (19) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1), (2), (5), (6), (7), (8), (10) or (18) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

Relief from requirements as to form and content of accounts
and reports

 77.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust may
apply to the Authority in writing for an order relieving the
trustee‑manager from any requirement of this Act relating to the
form and content of accounts or to the form and content of the report
required by section 76(11) and the Authority may make such an order
either unconditionally or on condition that the trustee‑manager
complies with any other requirements relating to the form and content
of the accounts or report that the Authority thinks fit to impose.

 (2) The Authority may, where it considers it appropriate, make an
order in respect of a specified class of registered business trusts
relieving the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust in that
class from compliance with any specified requirements of this Act
relating to the form and content of accounts or to the form and content
of the report required by section 76(11) and the order may be made
either unconditionally or on condition that the trustee‑manager
comply with any other requirements relating to the form and content
of accounts or report that the Authority thinks fit to impose.

 (3) The Authority must not make an order under subsection (1)
unless it is of the opinion that compliance with the requirements of
this Act would render the accounts or report (as the case may be)
misleading or inappropriate to the circumstances of the registered
business trust or would impose unreasonable burdens on the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 126

trustee‑manager of the registered business trust or any officer of the
trustee‑manager.

 (4) The Authority may make an order under subsection (1) which
may be limited to a specific period and may, from time to time, either
on application by the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust
or without any such application (in which case the Authority must
give to the trustee‑manager an opportunity of being heard) revoke or
suspend the operation of any such order.

Unitholders of registered business trust entitled to balance
sheet, etc.

 78.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must, at
least 14 days before the date of a general meeting of the unitholders of
the registered business trust, send to all the unitholders entitled to
receive notice of general meetings of the unitholders of the registered
business trust a copy of every profit and loss account, balance sheet
and cash flow statement of the registered business trust (including
every document required under this Act to be attached thereto), which
is duly audited and which is to be laid before the unitholders in
general meeting, accompanied by —

       (a) a copy of the auditor’s report thereon; and

       (b) the financial statements of the trustee‑manager prepared in
            accordance with section 201 of the Companies Act 1967.

                                                                                                           [35/2014]

 (2) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must, without
charge and on a request made by any unitholder of the registered
business trust (whether the unitholder is or is not entitled to have sent
to the unitholder copies of the profit and loss accounts and balance
sheets) to whom copies of the profit and loss account and balance
sheet of the registered business trust (including every document
required by this Act to be attached thereto) for the financial year
immediately preceding the then current financial year have not been
sent, provide to the unitholder such copies of the profit and loss
account and balance sheet, together with a copy of the auditor’s report
thereon.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
127  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

 (3) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding
$5,000 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

Provision of summary financial statement to unitholders

 79.—(1) Despite section 78 and anything in the trust deed of a
registered business trust the units of which are listed on the approved
exchange, the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust may, in
such cases as may be prescribed by the Authority and provided all the
conditions imposed thereunder by the Authority are complied with,
send a summary financial statement of the registered business trust
complying with the requirements of subsections (4) and (5) instead of
copies of the documents referred to in section 78(1) to the unitholders
of the listed registered business trust.

                                                                                                             [4/2017]

 (2) Where the trustee‑manager of a listed registered business trust
sends to the unitholders of the listed registered business trust a
summary financial statement under subsection (1), any of the
unitholders entitled to be provided with a copy of the documents
referred to in section 78(2) by the trustee‑manager may instead
request for a summary financial statement from the trustee‑manager,
and the trustee‑manager must send the summary financial statement
to the requesting unitholder.

 (3) The trustee‑manager of a listed registered business trust need
not send a summary financial statement to any unitholder of the listed
registered business trust who does not wish to receive the statement.

 (4) The trustee‑manager of a listed registered business trust must
send the documents referred to in section 78(1) to any unitholder of
the listed registered business trust who wishes to receive such
documents.

 (5) The summary financial statement mentioned in
subsection (1) —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 128

(a) must be derived from the annual accounts of the listed
     registered business trust and the report of the directors of
     the trustee‑manager of the listed registered business trust;
     and

(b) must be in such form and contain such information as may
     be specified by regulations.

 (6) Every summary financial statement mentioned in subsection (1)
must —

(a) state that it is only a summary of information in the annual
     accounts of the listed registered business trust and report of
     the directors of the trustee‑manager of the listed registered
     business trust; and

(b) contain a statement by the auditors of the listed registered
     business trust of their opinion as to whether the summary
     financial statement is consistent with the accounts and the
     report and complies with the requirements of this section
     and any regulations made under subsection (8).

 (7) Any trustee‑manager of a listed registered business trust which
contravenes this section or any regulations made under subsection (8)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

 (8) The Authority may make regulations to give effect to this
section, including making provision as to the manner in which it is to
be ascertained whether a unitholder of a listed registered business
trust wishes to receive copies of the documents referred to in
section 78(1) or does not wish to receive the summary financial
statement under this section.

 (9) In this section, “listed registered business trust” means a
registered business trust that has been admitted to the official list of
an approved exchange in Singapore and has not been removed from
that list.

                                                                                                             [4/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
129      Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

Penalty

 80.—(1) If any director of the trustee‑manager of a registered
business trust —

     (a) fails to take all reasonable steps to secure compliance by
          the trustee‑manager with any provision of this Division; or

     (b) has by his or her own wilful act been the cause of any
          contravention by the trustee‑manager of any provision of
          this Division,

he or she shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (2) In any proceedings against a person for failure to take all
reasonable steps to comply with, or to secure compliance with, the
preceding provisions of this Division relating to the form and content
of the accounts of a registered business trust by reason of an omission
from the accounts, it is a defence for the person to prove that the
omission was not intentional and that the information omitted was
immaterial and did not affect the giving of a true and fair view of the
matters required by section 76 to be dealt with in the accounts.

 (3) If an offence under this section is committed with intent to
defraud any creditor of the registered business trust or any creditor of
any other person or for a fraudulent purpose, the offender shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $250,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 7 years or to both.

 (4) A person is not to be sentenced to imprisonment for any offence
under this section unless, in the opinion of the court dealing with the
case, the offence was committed wilfully.

                             Division 2 — Audit
Auditors

 81.—(1) A person that is not an accounting entity must not —
       (a) knowingly consent to be appointed as an auditor for a
            registered business trust; or

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 130

(b) knowingly act as an auditor for a registered business trust.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1)(b), a person acts as an auditor
for a registered business trust if the person prepares any report
required by this Act to be prepared by an auditor of the registered
business trust.

 (3) A trustee-manager of a registered business trust must not
appoint an accounting entity as an auditor of a registered business
trust without obtaining the accounting entity’s prior consent.

(4) For the purposes of subsection (3), the consent —

(a) of a public accountant must be in writing signed by the
     public accountant;

(b) of an accounting firm, or an accounting limited liability
     partnership, must be in writing signed by at least one
     partner of the firm or limited liability partnership; and

          (c) of an accounting corporation must be in writing signed by
              at least one director of the corporation.

 (5) Where an accounting firm is appointed as the auditor of a
registered business trust in the name of the firm, such appointment
takes effect and operates as if the partners of the firm at the time of the
appointment, who are public accountants at that time, are appointed
as auditors of the registered business trust.

 (6) Where an accounting limited liability partnership is appointed
as the auditor of a registered business trust in the name of the limited
liability partnership, such appointment takes effect and operates as
if —

(a) the partners of the limited liability partnership who are
     practising as public accountants in the limited liability
     partnership (whether partners at the time the limited
     liability partnership was appointed as auditor or later); and

(b) the employees of the limited liability partnership who are
     practising as public accountants in the limited liability
     partnership (whether employed at the time the limited
     liability partnership was appointed as auditor or later),

are appointed as auditors of the registered business trust.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
131  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

 (7) Where an accounting corporation is appointed as the auditor of a
registered business trust in the name of the corporation, such
appointment takes effect and operates as if —

     (a) the directors of the corporation who are practising as public
          accountants in the corporation (whether directors at the
          time the accounting corporation was appointed as auditor
          or later); and

     (b) the employees of the corporation who are practising as
          public accountants in the corporation (whether employed
          at the time the accounting corporation was appointed as
          auditor or later),

are appointed as auditors of the registered business trust.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

Appointment of auditor

 82.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must,
within 3 months after registration of the registered business trust by
the Authority under section 4, appoint an accounting entity or
accounting entities nominated by the audit committee of the
registered business trust to be the auditor or auditors of the
registered business trust, and any auditor or auditors so appointed
must, subject to this section, hold office until the conclusion of the
first annual general meeting of the unitholders of the registered
business trust.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (2) The unitholders of a registered business trust must, at each
annual general meeting of the unitholders of the registered business
trust, by a resolution passed by unitholders holding in the aggregate a
majority of the voting rights of all the unitholders of the registered
business trust who, being entitled to do so, vote in person or, where
proxies are allowed, by proxy, appoint an accounting entity or
accounting entities nominated by the audit committee of the
registered business trust to be the auditor or auditors of the
registered business trust, and any auditor or auditors so appointed
must, subject to this section, hold office until the conclusion of the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 132

next annual general meeting of the unitholders of the registered
business trust.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (3) Subject to subsections (7) and (8), the trustee‑manager of a
registered business trust may appoint an accounting entity nominated
by the audit committee of the registered business trust to fill any
casual vacancy in the office of auditor of the registered business trust,
but while such a vacancy continues, the surviving or continuing
auditor or auditors (if any) may act as such auditor or auditors.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (4) An auditor of a registered business trust may be removed from
office by a resolution passed by unitholders holding in the aggregate a
majority of the voting rights of all the unitholders of the registered
business trust who, being entitled to do so, vote in person or, where
proxies are allowed, by proxy, at a general meeting of which special
notice has been given, but not otherwise.

 (5) Where special notice of a resolution to remove an auditor is
received by the trustee‑manager on behalf of a registered business
trust —

(a) the trustee‑manager must immediately send a copy of the
     notice to the auditor concerned and to the Authority; and

       (b) the auditor may, within 7 days after the receipt by the
            auditor of the copy of the notice, make representations in
            writing to the trustee‑manager (not exceeding a reasonable
            length) and request that, prior to the meeting at which the
            resolution is to be considered, a copy of the representations
            be sent by the trustee‑manager to every unitholder of the
            registered business trust to whom notice of the meeting is
            sent.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (6) Unless the Authority, on the application of the trustee‑manager
of a registered business trust, orders otherwise, the trustee‑manager
must send a copy of the representations mentioned in
subsection (5)(b) as so requested and the auditor may, without
affecting the auditor’s right to be heard orally, require that the
representations be read out at the meeting.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
133  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

 (7) Where an auditor of a registered business trust is removed from
office under subsection (4) at a general meeting of the unitholders of
the registered business trust —

       (a) the unitholders of the registered business trust may, at the
            meeting and by a resolution passed by unitholders holding
            in aggregate at least three-fourths of the voting rights of all
            the unitholders of the registered business trust who, being
            entitled to do so, vote in person or, where proxies are
            allowed, by proxy, immediately appoint another
            accounting entity nominated by the audit committee of
            the registered business trust as auditor; or

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

       (b) the meeting may be adjourned to a date not earlier than
            20 days and not later than 30 days after the meeting and the
            unitholders of the registered business trust may, by
            resolution passed by unitholders holding in the aggregate
            a majority of the voting rights of all the unitholders of the
            registered business trust who, being entitled to do so, vote
            in person or, where proxies are allowed, by proxy, appoint
            another accounting entity nominated by the audit
            committee of the registered business trust as auditor.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (8) A trustee-manager of a registered business trust must,
immediately after the auditor’s removal from office under
subsection (4), give notice in writing of the removal to the
Authority and, if the unitholders of the registered business trust do
not appoint another auditor under subsection (7), the Authority may
appoint an auditor.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (9) An auditor appointed under subsection (7) or (8) must, subject
to this section, hold office until the conclusion of the next annual
general meeting of the unitholders of the registered business trust.

 (10) If the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust does not
appoint an auditor or auditors as required by this section, the
Authority may, on the application in writing of any unitholder of the
registered business trust, make the appointment.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.            Business Trusts Act 2004                       134

 (11) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must, at
least 14 days before the annual general meeting of the unitholders of
the registered business trust or the adjourned meeting under
subsection (7)(b), give notice of the nomination made by the audit
committee of the registered business trust to —

(a) the accounting entity so nominated;

                                                                    [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

(b) each auditor (if any) of the registered business trust; and

          (c) each person entitled to receive notice of general meetings
              of the unitholders of the registered business trust.

(12) An auditor of a registered business trust may resign —

(a) if the auditor is not the sole auditor of the registered
     business trust; or

(b) at a general meeting of the unitholders of the registered
     business trust,

but not otherwise.

 (13) If an auditor of a registered business trust gives written notice
to the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust that the auditor
desires to resign, the trustee‑manager must, as soon as is practicable,
call a general meeting of the unitholders of the registered business
trust for the purpose of appointing an auditor in place of the auditor
who desires to resign and on the appointment of another auditor, the
resignation of the firstmentioned auditor takes effect.

 (14) The fees and expenses of an auditor of a registered business
trust —

(a) in the case of an auditor appointed by the unitholders of the
     registered business trust at a general meeting, are to be
     fixed by the unitholders in general meeting or, if so
     authorised by the unitholders of the registered business
     trust at the last preceding annual general meeting, by the
     trustee‑manager of the registered business trust; and

(b) in the case of an auditor appointed by the trustee‑manager
     of the registered business trust or by the Authority, may be
     fixed by the trustee‑manager of the registered business

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
135  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

     trust or by the Authority (as the case may be) and, if not so
     fixed, are to be fixed as provided in paragraph (a) as if the
     auditor had been appointed by the unitholders of the
     registered business trust.

 (15) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (5), (6), (8), (11),
(12) or (13) shall be guilty of an offence.

Auditors’ remuneration

 83.—(1) If the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust is
served with a notice sent by or on behalf of —

       (a) at least 5% of the total number of unitholders of the
            registered business trust; or

       (b) the unitholders holding in aggregate at least 5% of the total
            voting rights of all the unitholders of the registered
            business trust,

requiring particulars of all emoluments paid to or receivable by the
auditor of the registered business trust or any person who is a partner
or an employer or an employee of the auditor, by or from the
trustee‑manager in respect of services other than auditing services
rendered in relation to the registered business trust, the
trustee‑manager must immediately —

       (c) prepare or cause to be prepared a statement showing
            particulars of all emoluments paid to the auditor or other
            person and of the services in respect of which the payments
            have been made for the financial year immediately
            preceding the service of the notice;

       (d) forward a copy of the statement to all the unitholders
            entitled to receive notice of general meetings of the
            unitholders of the registered business trust; and

       (e) lay the statement before the unitholders in general meeting.

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), the trustee‑manager of a
registered business trust must, under prescribed circumstances,
undertake a review of the fees, expenses and emoluments of the
auditor of the registered business trust to determine whether the
independence of the auditor has been compromised, and the outcome

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 136

of the review must be sent to all persons entitled to receive notice of
general meetings of the unitholders of the registered business trust.

 (3) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence.

Powers and duties of auditors as to reports on accounts

 84.—(1) An auditor of a registered business trust must report to the
unitholders of the registered business trust on the accounts required to
be laid before the unitholders in general meeting and on the
accounting and other records of the registered business trust
relating to those accounts.

 (2) A report by an auditor of a registered business trust under
subsection (1) must be provided by the auditor to the trustee‑manager
of the registered business trust in sufficient time to enable the
trustee‑manager to comply with the requirements of section 78(1) in
relation to that report, but no offence is committed by an auditor
under this subsection if the trustee‑manager has not submitted the
accounts for audit as required under this Part in sufficient time,
having regard to the complexity of the accounts, for the auditor to
make the auditor’s report.

 (3) An auditor of a registered business trust must, in a report under
this section, state —

       (a) whether the accounts, in the auditor’s opinion —

               (i) give a true and fair view of the matters required by
                   section 76 to be dealt with in the accounts; and

              (ii) are in accordance with this Act so as —

                    (A) in the case of a balance sheet — to give a true
                          and fair view of the state of affairs of the
                          registered business trust;

                     (B) in the case of a profit and loss account — to
                          give a true and fair view of the profit or loss of
                          the registered business trust; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
137  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

     (C) in the case of a cash flow statement — to give a
          true and fair view of the cash flow of the
          business of the registered business trust;

     (b) whether the accounting and other records required by this
          Act to be kept by the trustee‑manager of the registered
          business trust have been, in the auditor’s opinion, properly
          kept in accordance with this Act;

     (c) any defect or irregularity in the accounts and any matter
         not set out in the accounts without regard to which a true
         and fair view of the matters dealt with by the accounts
         would not be obtained; and

     (d) if the auditor is not satisfied as to any matter referred to in
          paragraph (a) or (b), the auditor’s reasons for not being so
          satisfied.

 (4) It is the duty of an auditor of a registered business trust to form
an opinion as to —

     (a) whether the auditor has obtained all the information and
          explanations that the auditor required; and

     (b) whether proper accounting and other records have been
          kept by the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust
          as required by section 75 of this Act,

and the auditor must state in the auditor’s report particulars of any
deficiency, failure or short‑coming in respect of any matter referred to
in this subsection.

(5) An auditor of a registered business trust —

     (a) has right of access at all times to the accounting and other
          records, including registers, of the registered business
          trust; and

     (b) is entitled to require from any officer of the
          trustee‑manager of the registered business trust and any
          auditor of a related corporation of the trustee‑manager such
          information and explanations as the auditor may desire for
          the purposes of audit.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 138

(6) The auditor’s report must —

(a) be attached to or endorsed on the accounts;

(b) if any unitholder of the registered business trust so
     requires, be read before the unitholders of the registered
     business trust in general meeting; and

          (c) be open to inspection by any unitholder of the registered
              business trust at any reasonable time.

 (7) An auditor of a registered business trust or the auditor’s agent
authorised by the auditor in writing for the purpose is entitled —

(a) to attend any general meeting of the unitholders of the
     registered business trust;

(b) to receive all notices of, and other communications relating
     to, any general meeting which a unitholder of the
     registered business trust is entitled to receive; and

          (c) to be heard at any general meeting which the auditor
              attends on any part of the business of the meeting which
              concerns the auditor in the auditor’s capacity as auditor of
              the registered business trust.

 (8) If an auditor of a registered business trust, in the course of the
performance of the auditor’s duties as auditor of the registered
business trust, is satisfied that —

(a) there has been a breach or non-observance of any of the
     provisions of this Act; and

(b) the circumstances are such that in the auditor’s opinion the
     matter has not been or will not be adequately dealt with by
     comment in the auditor’s report on the accounts or by
     bringing the matter to the notice of the board of directors of
     the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust,

the auditor must immediately report the matter in writing to the
Authority.

 (9) Despite subsection (8), if an auditor of a registered business
trust, in the course of the performance of the auditor’s duties as
auditor, has reason to believe that a serious offence involving fraud or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
139  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

dishonesty is being or has been committed in relation to the registered
business trust by officers or employees of the trustee‑manager of the
registered business trust, the auditor must immediately report the
matter to the Minister.

 (10) No duty to which an auditor of a registered business trust may
be subject is to be regarded as having been contravened by reason of
the auditor reporting the matter mentioned in subsection (9) in good
faith to the Minister.

 (11) In subsection (9), “a serious offence involving fraud or
dishonesty” means an offence —

     (a) that is punishable by imprisonment for a term that is not
          less than 2 years; and

     (b) in respect of which the value of the property obtained or
          likely to be obtained from the commission of the offence is
          not less than $20,000.

 (12) Any officer of the trustee‑manager of a registered business
trust who refuses or fails to allow an auditor of the registered business
trust access, in accordance with this section, to any accounting and
other records, including registers, of the registered business trust in
the officer’s custody or control or to give any information or
explanation as and when required under this section, or otherwise
hinders, obstructs or delays an auditor in the performance of the
auditor’s duties or the exercise of the auditor’s powers, shall be guilty
of an offence.

Auditors and other persons to enjoy qualified privilege in
certain circumstances

 85.—(1) An auditor of a registered business trust shall not, in the
absence of malice on the auditor’s part, be liable to any action for
defamation at the suit of any person in respect of any statement which
the auditor makes in the course of the auditor’s duties as auditor,
whether the statement is made orally or in writing.

 (2) A person shall not, in the absence of malice on the person’s part
and in the course of the person’s duties, be liable to any action for
defamation at the suit of any other person in respect of the publication

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 140

of any document prepared by an auditor of a registered business trust
and required by this Act to be lodged with the Authority.

 (3) This section does not limit or affect any other right, privilege or
immunity that an auditor or any other person has as defendant in an
action for defamation.

Provisions indemnifying auditors

 85A.—(1) Any provision, whether in the trust deed of the
registered business trust or in any contract with the trustee-
manager of a registered business trust or otherwise, for exempting
any auditor of the registered business trust from, or indemnifying the
auditor against, any liability which by law would otherwise attach to
the auditor in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or
breach of trust of which the auditor may be guilty in relation to the
registered business trust is void.

 (2) This section does not prevent a trustee-manager of a registered
business trust from indemnifying an auditor against any liability
incurred or that will be incurred by the auditor —

       (a) in defending any proceedings (whether civil or criminal) in
            which judgment is given in the auditor’s favour or in which
            the auditor is acquitted; or

       (b) in connection with any application under section 105 or
            any other provision of this Act, in which relief is granted to
            the auditor by the court.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

                          Division 3 — Disclosure

Certification by chief executive officer and board of directors
of trustee‑manager

 86.—(1) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), the trustee‑manager of
a registered business trust must —

       (a) cause the written statements required by subsections (2)
            and (3) to be made out in accordance with those
            subsections; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
141  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

     (b) ensure that the written statements mentioned in
          paragraph (a) are annexed to the profit and loss account
          of the registered business trust required under
          section 76(1).

 (2) Subject to subsection (4), the board of directors of the
trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must make a written
statement, in accordance with a resolution of the board of directors of
the trustee‑manager and signed by at least 2 directors on behalf of the
board of directors, certifying that —

     (a) fees or charges paid or payable out of the trust property of
          the registered business trust to the trustee‑manager are in
          accordance with the trust deed of the registered business
          trust;

     (b) interested person transactions are not detrimental to the
          interests of all the unitholders of the registered business
          trust as a whole based on the circumstances at the time of
          the transaction; and

     (c) the board of directors of the trustee‑manager is not aware
         of any violation of duties of the trustee‑manager which
         would have a materially adverse effect on the business of
         the registered business trust or on the interests of all the
         unitholders of the registered business trust as a whole.

 (3) Subject to subsection (5), the chief executive officer of the
trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must, in his or her
personal capacity, make a written statement certifying that he or she is
not aware of any violation of duties of the trustee‑manager which
would have a materially adverse effect on the business of the
registered business trust or on the interests of all the unitholders of the
registered business trust as a whole.

 (4) Where the board of directors of the trustee‑manager of a
registered business trust is unable to provide a written statement in
accordance with subsection (2), for the reason that —

     (a) the board of directors is of the opinion that the assertions
          referred to in subsection (2) are not true; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 142

(b) there is a divergence of views among the directors of the
     trustee‑manager as to the accuracy of the assertions
     referred to in subsection (2),

the trustee‑manager need not annex the written statement required by
subsection (2) to the profit and loss account of the registered business
trust required under section 76(1), but the board of directors must
provide an explanation, including the important factors for the
inability to provide such a written statement, and the explanation
must be annexed by the trustee‑manager to the profit and loss account
of the registered business trust required under section 76(1).

 (5) Where the chief executive officer of the trustee‑manager of a
registered business trust is unable to provide a written statement in
accordance with subsection (3) for the reason that he or she is of the
opinion that the assertion referred to in subsection (3) is not true, the
trustee‑manager need not annex the written statement required by
subsection (3) to the profit and loss account of the registered business
trust required under section 76(1), but the chief executive officer of
the trustee‑manager must provide an explanation, including the
important factors for his or her inability to provide such a written
statement, and the explanation must be annexed by the
trustee‑manager to the profit and loss account of the registered
business trust required under section 76(1).

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (2), (3), (4) or (5)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $100,000.

 (7) If the board of directors of the trustee‑manager of a registered
business trust makes a written statement mentioned in subsection (2)
without any reasonable basis for arriving at the conclusions as set
forth in the statement, any director of the trustee‑manager who
permits or authorises the statement to be made shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

 (8) If the chief executive officer of the trustee‑manager of a
registered business trust makes a written statement mentioned in
subsection (3) without any reasonable basis for arriving at the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
143                 Business Trusts Act 2004                  2020 Ed.

conclusions as set forth in the statement, the chief executive officer
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (9) For the purposes of this section, a person or group of persons is
deemed to have an interest in shares or units (as the case may be) if
that person or group of persons is deemed to have an interest in the
shares or units (as the case may be) under section 4 of the Securities
and Futures Act 2001.

(10) In this section —

     “associate” —

     (a) in relation to an individual who is a director, chief
          executive officer or controlling shareholder of the
          trustee‑manager of a registered business trust or a
          controlling unitholder of a registered business trust,
          means —

     (i) his or her immediate family;

     (ii) a trustee, when acting in the trustee’s capacity
          as such trustee, of any trust of which the
          individual or his or her immediate family is a
          beneficiary or, in the case of a discretionary
          trust, is a discretionary object; or

     (iii) any corporation in which the individual and his
           or her immediate family together (whether
           directly or indirectly) have an interest in
           shares entitling the beneficial owners thereof
           the right to cast, whether by proxy or in person,
           at least 30% of the total votes able to be cast at a
           general meeting of the corporation; and

     (b) in relation to a corporation which is a controlling
          shareholder of the trustee‑manager of a registered
          business trust or a controlling unitholder of a
          registered business trust, means any corporation
          which is its related corporation or associated
          company;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 144

“associated company”, in relation to a corporation, means —

          (a) any corporation in which the corporation or its
               subsidiary has, or the corporation and its subsidiary
               together have, an interest in shares entitling the
               beneficial owners thereof the right to cast, whether by
               proxy or in person, at least 20% but not more than
               50% of the total votes able to be cast at a general
               meeting of the corporation; or

          (b) any corporation, other than a subsidiary of the
               corporation or a corporation which is an associated
               company by virtue of paragraph (a), the policies of
               which the corporation or its subsidiary, or the
               corporation together with its subsidiary, is able to
               control or influence materially;

“chief executive officer”, in relation to the trustee‑manager of a
   registered business trust, means any individual, by whatever
   name described, who is —

          (a) in the direct employment of, acting for or by
               arrangement with, the trustee‑manager of a
               registered business trust; and

          (b) principally responsible for the management and
               conduct of the trustee‑manager;

“control”, in relation to a corporation, means the capacity to
   determine the outcome of decisions on the financial and
   operating policies of the corporation, having regard to the
   following considerations:

          (a) the practical influence which can be exerted (rather
               than the rights which can be enforced); and

          (b) any practice or pattern of behaviour affecting the
               financial and operating policies of the corporation
               (even if it involves a breach of an agreement or a
               breach of trust),

          but excludes any capacity to influence decisions on the
          financial and operating policies of a corporation where such

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
145  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

     influence is required to be exercised for the benefit of other
     persons pursuant to an obligation imposed under any written
     law, rule of law, contract or order of court;

     “controlling shareholder”, in relation to a corporation, means —

     (a) a person who has an interest in the voting shares of a
          corporation and who exercises control over the
          corporation; or

     (b) a person who has an interest in shares entitling the
          beneficial owners thereof the right to cast, whether by
          proxy or in person, 30% or more of the total votes
          able to be cast at a general meeting of the corporation,
          unless the person does not exercise control over the
          corporation;

     “controlling unitholder”, in relation to a registered business
        trust, means a person who has an interest or interests in units
        representing 30% or more of the total voting rights of all the
        unitholders of the registered business trust;

     “immediate family”, in relation to an individual, means the
        individual’s spouse, son, adopted son, stepson, daughter,
        adopted daughter, stepdaughter, father, stepfather, mother,
        stepmother, brother, stepbrother, sister or stepsister;

     “interested person”, in relation to a registered business trust,
        means —

     (a) the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust;

     (b) a related corporation of the trustee‑manager of the
          registered business trust;

     (c) an associated company of the trustee‑manager of the
         registered business trust;

     (d) a director, chief executive officer or controlling
          shareholder of the trustee‑manager of the registered
          business trust;

     (e) an associate of a director, chief executive officer or
         controlling shareholder of the trustee‑manager of the
         registered business trust;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 146

          (f) a controlling unitholder of the registered business
              trust; or

          (g) an associate of a controlling unitholder of the
               registered business trust;

“interested person transaction” means a transaction between the
   trustee‑manager of a registered business trust on behalf of the
   registered business trust and an interested person of the
   registered business trust.

Disclosure of policies and practices

 87.—(1) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust must
attach to the profit and loss account of the registered business trust
required under section 76(1) a statement of its policies and practices
in relation to its management and governance of the registered
business trust containing such information and description as may be
prescribed by the Authority.

 (2) Any trustee‑manager of a registered business trust which
contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                    PART 11

                                   APPEALS

Appeals to Minister

 88.—(1) Where an appeal is made to the Minister under this Act,
the Minister may confirm, vary or reverse the decision of the
Authority on appeal, or give any directions in the matter that he or she
thinks fit, and the decision of the Minister is final.

 (2) Where an appeal is made to the Minister under this Act, the
Minister must, within 28 days of his or her receipt of the appeal,
constitute an Appeal Advisory Committee comprising at least
3 members of the Appeal Advisory Panel and refer that appeal to
the Appeal Advisory Committee.

 (3) The Appeal Advisory Committee must submit to the Minister a
written report on the appeal referred to it under subsection (2) and
may make any recommendations that it thinks fit.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
147  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

 (4) The Minister must consider the report submitted under
subsection (3) in making his or her decision under this section but
he or she is not bound by the recommendations in the report.

Appeal Advisory Committees

 89.—(1) For the purpose of enabling Appeal Advisory Committees
to be constituted under section 88, the Minister must appoint a panel
(called in this Part the Appeal Advisory Panel) comprising such
members from the public and private sectors as the Minister may
appoint.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (2) A member of the Appeal Advisory Panel is to be appointed for a
term of not more than 2 years and is eligible for re‑appointment.

 (3) An Appeal Advisory Committee has the power, in the exercise
of its functions, to inquire into any matter or thing and may, for this
purpose, summon any person to give evidence on oath or affirmation
or produce any document or material necessary for the purpose of the
inquiry.

 (4) Nothing in subsection (3) compels the production by an
advocate and solicitor, or a legal counsel mentioned in
section 128A of the Evidence Act 1893, of a document or material
containing a privileged communication made by or to him or her in
that capacity or authorise the taking of possession of any such
document or material which is in his or her possession.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (5) An advocate and solicitor, or a legal counsel mentioned in
section 128A of the Evidence Act 1893, who refuses to produce any
document or other material mentioned in subsection (4) is
nevertheless obliged to give the name and address (if he or she
knows them) of the person to whom, or by or on behalf of whom, the
privileged communication was made.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (6) For the purposes of this Act, every member of an Appeal
Advisory Committee —

       (a) is deemed to be a public servant for the purposes of the
            Penal Code 1871; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 148

(b) in case of any suit or legal proceedings brought against the
     member for any act done or omitted to be done in the
     execution of the member’s duty under the provisions of
     this Act, has the like protection and privileges as are by law
     given to a Judge in the execution of his or her office.

 (7) Every Appeal Advisory Committee must have regard to the
interest of the public, the protection of unitholders of registered
business trusts and of persons intending to acquire units, or
derivatives of units, in registered business trusts and the
safeguarding of sources of information.

 (8) Subject to the provisions of this Part, an Appeal Advisory
Committee may regulate its own procedure and is not bound by the
rules of evidence.

Disclosure of information

 90. Nothing in this Act requires the Minister or any public servant
to disclose facts which he or she considers to be against the interest of
the public to disclose.

Regulations for purposes of this Part

 91.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for the purposes and
provisions of this Part and for the due administration of this Part.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may make
regulations for or with respect to —

       (a) the appointment of members to, and procedures of, the
            Appeal Advisory Panel and Appeal Advisory Committees;

       (b) the form and manner in which an appeal to the Minister
            under this Act must be made;

       (c) the fees to be paid in respect of any appeal made to the
            Minister under this Act, including the refund or remission,
            whether in whole or in part, of such fees;

       (d) the remuneration of the members of the Appeal Advisory
            Panel and Appeal Advisory Committees; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
149  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

     (e) all matters and things which by this Part are required or
         permitted to be prescribed or which are necessary or
         expedient to be prescribed to give effect to any provision of
         this Part.

                                   PART 12

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Technological disruptions, etc., in meetings

 91A. A meeting to which section 52R(2)(b) or (c) applies is not
invalidated by reason of any technological disruption, malfunction or
outage unless the court —

       (a) is of the opinion that the technological disruption,
            malfunction or outage has caused or may cause
            substantial injustice that cannot be remedied by any
            order of the court; and

       (b) by order declares the meeting to be invalid.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

Electronic transmission of notices of meetings

 92.—(1) Where any notice of a meeting is required or permitted to
be given, sent or served under this Act or under the trust deed of a
registered business trust by the trustee‑manager of the registered
business trust or the directors of the trustee‑manager to —

       (a) a unitholder of the registered business trust;

       (b) an officer of the trustee‑manager; or

       (c) the auditor of the registered business trust,

that notice may be given, sent or served using electronic
communications to the current address of that person.

 (2) For the purposes of this section, a written notice of a meeting is
also treated as given or sent to, or served on, a person where —

       (a) the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust and that
            person have agreed in writing that notices of meetings

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 150

          required to be given to that person may instead be accessed
          by that person on a website;

(b) the meeting is a meeting to which that agreement applies;

          (c) the notice is published on the website such that it is or can
              be made legible;

(d) that person is notified, in a manner for the time being
     agreed between that person and the trustee‑manager for the
     purpose, of —

          (i) the publication of the notice on a website;

          (ii) the address of that website; and

          (iii) the place on that website where the notice may be
                accessed, and how it may be accessed; and

          (e) the notice continues to be published on and remains
              accessible to that person from that website throughout the
              period beginning with the giving of that notification and
              ending with the conclusion of the meeting.

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, a notice of a meeting treated in
accordance with subsection (2) as given or sent to, or served on, any
person is treated as so given, sent or served at the time of the
notification mentioned in subsection (2)(d).

 (4) A notice of a meeting given for the purposes of subsection (2)(d)
must specify such matters or information as may be required for a
notice of that type under any other provision of this Act or the trust
deed of that registered business trust.

 (5) Nothing in subsection (2) invalidates the proceedings of a
meeting where —

(a) any notice of a meeting that is required to be published and
     remain accessible as mentioned in paragraph (e) of that
     subsection is published and remains accessible for a part,
     but not all, of the period mentioned in that paragraph; and

(b) the failure to publish and make accessible that notice
     throughout that period is wholly attributable to
     circumstances which it would not be reasonable to have

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
151  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

     expected the trustee‑manager of the registered business
     trust to prevent or avoid.

 (6) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust may, despite
any provision to the contrary in the trust deed of the registered
business trust, take advantage of subsection (1), (2), (3), (4) or (5).

 (7) For the purposes of this section and section 93, the current
address of a person or a company, in relation to any notice or
document, is a number or address used for electronic communication
which —

     (a) has been notified by the person in writing to the
          trustee‑manager of a registered business trust as one at
          which the notice or document may be sent to the person;
          and

     (b) the trustee‑manager has no reason to believe that the notice
          or document sent to the person at that address will not
          reach the person.

Electronic transmission of documents

 93.—(1) Where any accounts, balance sheet, report or other
document is required or permitted to be given, sent or served under
this Act or under the trust deed of a registered business trust by the
trustee‑manager of the registered business trust or the directors of the
trustee‑manager to —

       (a) a unitholder of the registered business trust;

       (b) an officer of the trustee‑manager; or

       (c) the auditor of the registered business trust,

that document may be given, sent or served using electronic
communications to the current address of that person.

 (2) For the purposes of this section, any account, balance sheet,
report or other document is also treated as given or sent to, or served
on, a person where —

       (a) the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust and that
            person have agreed in writing to that person having access

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 152

          to documents on a website (instead of their being sent to
          that person);

(b) the document is a document to which that agreement
     applies;

          (c) the document is published on the website such that it is or
              can be made legible; and

(d) that person is notified, in a manner for the time being
     agreed between that person and the trustee‑manager for
     that purpose, of —

          (i) the publication of the document on that website;

          (ii) the address of that website; and

          (iii) the place on that website where the documents may
                be accessed, and how it may be accessed.

 (3) Where any provision of this Act or of the trust deed of a
registered business trust requires any document to be given or sent to,
or served on, a person not less than a specified number of days before
a meeting, that document, if treated in accordance with subsection (2)
as given or sent to, or served on, any person, is treated as given or sent
to, or served on, the person not less than the specified number of days
before the date of a meeting if, and only if —

(a) the document is published on and remains accessible to
     that person from the website throughout a period beginning
     before the specified number of days before the date of the
     meeting and ending with the conclusion of the meeting;
     and

(b) the notification given for the purpose of subsection (2)(d)
     is given not less than the specified number of days before
     the date of the meeting.

 (4) Nothing in subsection (3) invalidates the proceedings of a
meeting where —

(a) any document that is required to be published and remain
     accessible as mentioned in paragraph (a) of that subsection
     is published and remains accessible for a part, but not all,
     of the period mentioned in that paragraph; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
153  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

     (b) the failure to publish and make accessible that document
          throughout that period is wholly attributable to
          circumstances which it would not be reasonable to have
          expected the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust
          to prevent or avoid.

 (5) The trustee‑manager of a registered business trust may, despite
any provision to the contrary in the trust deed of the registered
business trust, take advantage of subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4).

Trustees Act 1967 not to apply to registered business trusts

 94. The Trustees Act 1967 does not apply to a registered business
trust, even though the business trust was constituted before
12 October 2004.

Non-applicability of rules relating to perpetuities,
accumulations and inalienability of property to registered
business trusts

 95. The rules of law relating to perpetuities, accumulations and
inalienability of property do not apply to any registered business
trust, even though the business trust was constituted before
12 October 2004.

Opportunity to be heard

 96. Where this Act provides for a person to be given an opportunity
to be heard by the Authority, the Authority may prescribe the manner
in which the person is to be given an opportunity to be heard.

Appointment of assistants

 97.—(1) Subject to subsection (1A), the Authority may appoint any
person to exercise any of its powers or perform any of its functions or
duties under this Act, either generally or in any particular case,
except —

       (a) the power of appointment conferred by this subsection; and

       (b) the power to make subsidiary legislation.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 154

 (1A) The Authority may appoint one or more of its officers to
exercise the power under section 112(2) to grant an exemption to a
particular person, or in respect of any registered business trust, matter
or transaction (not being an exemption granted to a class of persons or
in respect of a class of registered business trusts, matters or
transactions), or to revoke any such exemption.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (1B) An appointment under subsection (1A) must be published in
the Gazette.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (2) Any person appointed by the Authority under subsection (1) is
deemed to be a public servant for the purposes of the Penal
Code 1871.

Codes, guidelines, etc., issued by Authority

 98.—(1) The Authority may issue, in such manner as it considers
appropriate, such codes, guidelines, policy statements, practice notes
and no-action letters as it considers appropriate for providing
guidance —

       (a) in furtherance of its regulatory objectives;

       (b) in relation to any matter relating to any of the functions of
            the Authority under any of the provisions of this Act; or

       (c) in relation to the operation of any of the provisions of this
            Act.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (2) The Authority may publish any such code, guideline, policy
statement, practice note or no‑action letter in such manner as it thinks
fit.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (3) The Authority may revoke, vary, revise or amend the whole or
any part of any code, guideline, policy statement, practice note or no-
action letter issued under this section in such manner as it thinks fit.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
155  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

(4) Where amendments are made under subsection (3) —

       (a) the other provisions of this section apply, with the
            necessary modifications, to such amendments as they
            apply to the code, guideline, policy statement, practice note
            or no-action letter; and

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

       (b) any reference in this Act or any other written law to the
            code, guideline, policy statement, practice note or no-
            action letter however expressed, unless the context
            otherwise requires, is a reference to the code, guideline,
            policy statement, practice note, or no-action letter as so
            amended.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (5) The failure of any person to comply with any of the provisions
of a code, guideline, policy statement or practice note issued under
this section that applies to the person does not of itself render that
person liable to criminal proceedings but any such failure may, in any
proceedings whether civil or criminal, be relied upon by any party to
the proceedings as tending to establish or to negate any liability which
is in question in the proceedings.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (6) The issue by the Authority of a no-action letter does not of itself
prevent the institution of any criminal proceedings against any person
for a contravention of any provision of this Act.

 (7) Any code, guideline, policy statement or practice note issued
under this section —

     (a) may be of general or specific application; and

     (b) may specify that different provisions of the code,
          guideline, policy statement or practice note apply to
          different circumstances or provide for different cases or
          classes of cases.

                                                                         [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 156

 (8) It is not necessary to publish any code, guideline, policy
statement, practice note or no‑action letter issued under this section in
the Gazette.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (9) In this section, “no‑action letter” means a letter written by the
Authority to an applicant for such a letter to the effect that, if the facts
are as represented by the applicant, the Authority will not institute
proceedings against the applicant in respect of a particular state of
affairs or particular conduct.

Translation of instruments

 99.—(1) Where a person submits or provides to or lodges with the
Authority any book, application, return, report, statement or other
information or document under this Act which is not in the English
language, the person must, at the same time or at any other time
permitted by the Authority, submit or provide to or lodge with the
Authority (as the case may be) an accurate translation thereof in the
English language.

 (2) Where a person is required to make available for inspection by
the public, or any section of the public, any document, report, or other
book under this Act which is not in the English language, the person
must, at the same time or at any other time permitted by the Authority,
make available for such inspection an accurate translation thereof in
the English language.

 (3) Where a person is required to maintain or keep any accounts,
minutes or other records under this Act and the accounts, minutes or
other records or any part thereof is not maintained or kept in the
English language, the person must —

       (a) cause an accurate translation of that accounts, minutes or
            other records or that part of the accounts, minutes or other
            records in the English language to be made from time to
            time at intervals of not more than 7 days; and

       (b) maintain or keep the translation with the accounts, minutes
            or other records for so long as the accounts, minutes or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
157  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

     other records are required under this Act to be maintained
     or kept.

 (4) Subsections (1), (2) and (3) are subject to any express provision
to the contrary in this Act or any regulations made under this Act.

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (2) or (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $25,000.

 (6) Where a person is charged with an offence under subsection (5),
it is a defence for the person to prove that —

     (a) the person had taken all reasonable steps to ensure that the
          translation that was submitted or provided to or lodged
          with the Authority, made available for inspection, or
          maintained or kept (as the case may be) was accurate in the
          circumstances; and

     (b) the person had believed on reasonable grounds that the
          translation was accurate.

 (7) In subsections (1), (2) and (3), “Act” includes any direction
made by the Authority under this Act.

Right of Authority and unitholders to apply to court for order

 100. Without affecting any other right of action or remedy under
any written law or rule of law, the Authority or a unitholder of a
registered business trust may apply to the court for an order to compel
the trustee‑manager of the registered business trust to perform its
duties as set out in the trust deed of the registered business trust, and
the court may either make the order on any terms that it considers
appropriate or dismiss the application.

Power of court to make certain orders

 101.—(1) Where —

       (a) on the application of the Authority, it appears to the court
            that a person has committed an offence under this Act or
            has contravened any condition or restriction imposed on
            the person under this Act or the listing rules of an approved
            exchange; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 158

(b) on the application of an approved exchange, it appears to
     the court that a person has contravened the listing rules of
     the approved exchange,

the court may, without affecting any orders it would be entitled to
make otherwise than under this section, make one or more of the
following orders:

          (c) in the case of a persistent or continuing breach of this Act,
              any condition or restriction imposed under this Act or the
              listing rules of an approved exchange, an order directing a
              person to do or refrain from doing a specified act,
              including, but not limited to, directing the
              trustee‑manager of a registered business trust to resign as
              the trustee‑manager;

(d) any ancillary order deemed to be desirable in consequence
     of the making of any of these orders;

       (e) an order for the reimbursement of costs of the application
            out of the trust property of a registered business trust to the
            person who made the application under this subsection.

                                                                                                             [4/2017]

 (2) The court may, before making an order under subsection (1),
direct that notice of the application be given to any person that it
thinks fit or that notice of the application be published in such manner
as it thinks fit, or both.

 (3) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes an
order made under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (4) Subsection (3) does not affect the powers of the court in relation
to the punishment for contempt of court.

 (5) The court may, on the application of an affected person or of its
own motion, rescind, vary or discharge an order made by it under this
section or suspend the operation of such an order.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
159  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

Court may compel compliance

 102.—(1) If any person in contravention of this Act refuses or fails
to permit the inspection of any register, minute book or document or
to supply a copy of any register, minute book or document, the court
may by order compel an immediate inspection of the register, minute
book or document or order the copy to be supplied.

 (2) If any officer or former officer of the trustee‑manager of a
registered business trust has failed or omitted to do any act, matter or
thing which under this Act that officer or former officer is or was
required or directed to do, the court may, on the application of the
Authority, any unitholder of the registered business trust, the
trustee‑manager or the liquidator of the registered business trust,
by order, require that officer or former officer to do such act, matter or
thing immediately or within such time as is allowed by the order and,
for the purpose of complying with any such order, a former officer is
deemed to have the same status, powers and duties as the former
officer had at the time the act, matter or thing should have been done.

Power of Minister to appoint inspector

 103.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, the Minister may appoint
any person as an inspector to investigate any matter if he or she is
satisfied that —

       (a) a prima facie case has been established that, for the
            protection of the public, the unitholders or the creditors of a
            registered business trust, it is desirable that the affairs of
            the registered business trust should be investigated;

       (b) it is in the public interest that allegations of fraud,
            misfeasance or other misconduct by persons who are or
            have been concerned with the formation or management of
            the registered business trust should be investigated; or

       (c) for any other reason, it is in the public interest that the
            affairs of the registered business trust should be
            investigated.

 (2) An inspector appointed under subsection (1) has all the powers
conferred upon an inspector under Part 9 of the Companies Act 1967

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 160

and that Part applies, with the necessary modifications, to such
investigation.

 (3) Any inspector appointed under subsection (1) must report the
results of the inspector’s investigation to the Minister and the
Minister may, if he or she thinks it in the public interest to do so, cause
the report to be printed and published.

Injunctions

 104.—(1) Where a person has engaged, is engaging or is likely to
engage in any conduct that constitutes or would constitute a
contravention of this Act or the trust deed of a registered business
trust, the court may, on the application of —

       (a) the Authority; or

       (b) any person whose interests have been, are or would be
            affected by the conduct,

grant an injunction restraining the firstmentioned person from
engaging in the conduct and, if the court is of the opinion that it is
desirable to do so, requiring that person to do any act or thing.

 (2) Where a person has refused or failed, is refusing or failing, or is
likely to refuse or fail, to do an act or thing that the person is required
by this Act or trust deed of a registered business trust to do, the court
may, on the application of —

       (a) the Authority; or

       (b) any person whose interests have been, are or would be
            affected by the refusal or failure to do that act or thing,

make an order requiring the firstmentioned person to do that act or
thing.

 (3) Where an application is made to the court for an injunction
under subsection (1) or an order under subsection (2), the court may,
if the court is of the opinion that it is desirable to do so and before
considering the application, grant an interim injunction restraining a
person from engaging in conduct of the kind mentioned in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
161  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

subsection (1) or make an interim order requiring a person to do any
act or thing, pending the determination of the application.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (4) Where the court has power under this section to grant an
injunction or interim injunction or make an order or interim order
restraining a person from engaging in conduct of a particular kind or
requiring a person to do a particular act or thing, the court may, either
in addition to or in substitution for the injunction, order, interim
injunction or interim order, order that person to pay damages to any
other person.

 (5) Where the court has granted an injunction or interim injunction
or made an order or interim order under this section, the court may, on
an application by any party referred to in subsection (1) or (2) or by
any person affected by the injunction, order, interim injunction or
interim order, rescind or vary the injunction, order, interim injunction
or interim order.

 (6) An injunction, order, interim injunction or interim order granted
or made under this section may be expressed to operate for a period
specified in the injunction, order, interim injunction or interim order
or until the injunction, order, interim injunction or interim order is
rescinded.

 (7) Any person who contravenes an injunction, order, interim
injunction or interim order that is granted or made by the court under
this section and that is applicable to the person shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

 (8) Where an application is made to the court for the grant of an
injunction under subsection (1), the power of the court to grant the
injunction may be exercised —

     (a) if the court is satisfied that the person has engaged in
          conduct of the kind mentioned in that subsection, whether
          or not it appears to the court that the person intends to
          engage again, or to continue to engage, in conduct of that
          kind; or

                                                                         [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 162

       (b) if it appears to the court that, in the event that an injunction
            is not granted, it is likely that the person will engage in
            conduct of the kind mentioned in that subsection, whether
            or not the person has previously engaged in conduct of that
            kind and whether or not there is an imminent danger of
            substantial damage to any person if the firstmentioned
            person engages in conduct of that kind.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (9) Where an application is made to the court for the making of an
order under subsection (2), the power of the court to make the order
may be exercised —

(a) if the court is satisfied that the person has refused or failed
     to do the act or thing mentioned in that subsection, whether
     or not it appears to the court that the person intends to
     refuse or fail again, or to continue to refuse or fail, to do
     that act or thing; or

(b) if it appears to the court that, in the event that an order is
     not made, it is likely the person will refuse or fail to do the
     act or thing mentioned in that subsection, whether or not
     the person has previously refused or failed to do that act or
     thing and whether or not there is an imminent danger of
     substantial damage to any person if the firstmentioned
     person refuses or fails to do that act or thing.

 (10) Where the Authority or any person mentioned in
subsection (1)(b) or (2)(b) makes an application to the court for the
grant of an injunction or interim injunction or for the making of an
order or interim order under this section, the court is not to require the
Authority or that person (as the case may be) or any other person, as a
condition of granting the injunction, order, interim injunction or
interim order, to give any undertaking as to damages.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (11) Subsection (7) does not affect the powers of the court in
relation to the punishment for contempt of court.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
163  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

Power of court to grant relief

 105.—(1) If, in any civil proceedings for negligence, default,
breach of duty or breach of trust against a person to whom this section
applies, it appears to the court before which the proceedings are taken
that the person is or may be liable in respect thereof but that the
person has acted honestly and reasonably and that, having regard to
all the circumstances of the case, including those connected with the
person’s appointment, the person ought fairly to be excused for the
negligence, default or breach, the court may relieve the person either
wholly or partly from the person’s liability on any terms that the court
thinks fit.

 (2) To avoid doubt and without limiting subsection (1), “liability”
includes the liability of a person to whom this section applies to
account for profits made or received.

 (3) Where any person to whom this section applies has reason to
apprehend that any claim will or might be made against the person in
respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust,
the person may apply to the court for relief, and the court has the same
power to relieve the person under this section as it would have had if
it had been a court before which civil proceedings against the person
for negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust had been
brought.

(4) This section applies to the following persons:

     (a) the trustee‑manager of a registered business trust;

     (b) officers of the trustee‑manager of a registered business
          trust;

     (c) persons employed by the trustee‑manager of a registered
         business trust as auditors, whether they are or are not
         officers of the trustee‑manager; and

     (d) persons who are liquidators appointed or directed by the
          court to carry out any duty under this Act in relation to a
          registered business trust and all other persons so appointed
          or so directed.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.               Business Trusts Act 2004                    164

Jurisdiction of court

 106. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any
offence under this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or
punishment in respect of the offence.

Duty not to provide false information to Authority

 107.—(1) Any person who provides the Authority with any
information under this Act must use due care to ensure that the
information is not false or misleading in any material particular.

 (2) Subsection (1) applies only to a requirement in relation to which
no other provision of this Act creates an offence in connection with
the provision of information.

 (3) Any person who —

       (a) signs any document lodged with the Authority; or

       (b) lodges with the Authority any document by electronic
            means using any identification or identifying code,
            password or other authentication method or procedure
            assigned to him or her by the Authority,

must use due care to ensure that the document is not false or
misleading in any material particular.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

False and misleading statement

 108. Every person who in any return, report, certificate or other
document required by or for the purposes of this Act —

       (a) wilfully makes or authorises the making of a statement
            false or misleading in any material particular knowing it to
            be false or misleading; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
165  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

       (b) wilfully omits or authorises the omission of any matter or
            thing without which the document is misleading in a
            material respect,

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 109.—(1) Where an offence under this Act (other than an offence
under Division 1 of Part 10) committed by a body corporate is
proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of the body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            a partner; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer of an unincorporated association or a member of
            its governing body; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.     Business Trusts Act 2004                              166

(b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an
     officer or member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(5) In this section —

“officer” —

          (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
               member of the committee of management, chief
               executive, manager, secretary or other similar officer
               of the body corporate and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity; or

          (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
               than a partnership), means the president, the
               secretary, or any member of the committee of the
               unincorporated association, or any person holding a
               position analogous to that of president, secretary or
               member of a committee and includes a person
               purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (6) Regulations may provide for the application of any provision of
this section, with such modifications as the Authority considers
appropriate, to a body corporate or unincorporated association
formed or recognised under the law of a territory outside Singapore.

General penalties

 110. Any person guilty of an offence under this Act for which no
penalty is expressly provided shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000.

Composition of offences

 111.—(1) The Authority may compound any offence under this Act
which is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
167  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

of money not exceeding one half of the amount of the maximum fine
prescribed for that offence.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (2) The Authority may compound any offence under this Act
(including an offence under a provision which has been repealed)
which —

     (a) was compoundable under this section at the time the
          offence was committed; but

     (b) has ceased to be so compoundable,

by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum of money not exceeding one half of
the amount of the maximum fine prescribed for that offence at the
time it was committed.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (3) On payment of the sum of money mentioned in subsection (1) or
(2), no further proceedings are to be taken against that person in
respect of the offence.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (4) The Authority may make regulations to prescribe the offences
which may be compounded.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (5) All sums collected by the Authority under subsection (1) or (2)
must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

General exemption

 112.—(1) The Authority may, by regulations, exempt any person,
registered business trust, matter or transaction, or any class thereof,
from all or any of the provisions of this Act, subject to such
conditions or restrictions as may be prescribed.

 (2) The Authority may, on the application of any person, exempt the
person or any registered business trust, matter or transaction from all
or any of the provisions of this Act or the requirements imposed by
the Authority under this Act, by written notice, if the Authority
considers it appropriate to do so in the circumstances of the case.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 168

(3) An exemption under subsection (2) —

(a) may be granted subject to such conditions or restrictions as
     the Authority may specify by written notice;

                                                                    [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

(b) need not be published in the Gazette; and

          (c) may be withdrawn at any time by the Authority.

 (3A) The Authority may at any time add to, vary or revoke any
condition or restriction imposed under this section.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (4) Any person who contravenes any condition or restriction
prescribed under subsection (1) or specified by the Authority under
subsection (3)(a) (including any condition or restriction added or
varied under subsection (3A)) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

Amendment of Schedule

 113.—(1) The Authority may by order published in the Gazette,
amend the Schedule.

 (2) The Authority may, in any order made under subsection (1),
make such incidental, consequential or supplementary provision as
may be necessary or expedient.

Regulations

 114.—(1) The Authority may make regulations for carrying out the
purposes and provisions of this Act and for the due administration of
this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may make
regulations for or with respect to —

       (a) the criteria for the registration of business trusts and the
            constitution, operation and management of registered
            business trusts including, but not limited to, the powers
            and duties of the trustee‑managers of registered business
            trusts and the rights and obligations of the unitholders of
            registered business trusts;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
169  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

     (b) the administration and regulation of registered business
          trusts and, in particular, the governance practices of such
          registered business trusts;

     (c) the administration and regulation of trustee‑managers of
         registered business trusts;

     (ca) the regulation of the use of virtual meeting technology for
           meetings held in the manner described in section 52R(2)(b)
           or (c), including —

     (i) restricting or mandating the types of virtual meeting
         technology that may be used;

     (ii) restricting the means by which voting may be carried
          out, or mandating how voting may be carried out,
          using virtual meeting technology;

     (iii) imposing record keeping and auditing requirements
           in respect of the use of virtual meeting technology;

     (iv) imposing requirements relating to the verification or
          authentication of the identities of persons attending
          meetings using virtual meeting technology; and

            (v) mandating the notices and documents (including
                 physical notices and documents) to be sent to persons
                 attending or eligible to attend a meeting using virtual
                 meeting technology;

                                                                         [Act 17 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

     (d) the particulars to be recorded in the accounts of registered
          business trusts and the information on the annual accounts
          of registered business trusts to be contained in the auditor’s
          reports required to be lodged under this Act;

     (e) the forms for the purposes of this Act;

     (f) the fees to be paid in respect of any matter or thing required
         for the purposes of this Act and the refund and remission,
         whether in whole or in part, of such fees; and

     (g) all matters and things which by this Act are required or
          permitted to be prescribed or which are necessary or
          expedient to be prescribed to give effect to this Act.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 170

 (3) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, the
regulations —

(a) may be of general or specific application;

(aa) may relate to all, or any class, category or description of
      persons, trustee-managers or business trusts, and may
      make different provisions for different classes, categories
      or descriptions of persons, trustee-managers or business
      trusts, or to a particular person, trustee-manager or
      business trust;

                                                                       [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

(ab) may contain provisions of a saving or transitional nature;

                                                                       [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

 (b) may provide that a contravention of any specified
      provision of the regulations shall be an offence; and

          (c) may provide for penalties not exceeding a fine of $50,000
              or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or
              both for each offence and, in the case of a continuing
              offence, a further penalty not exceeding a fine of 10% of
              the maximum fine prescribed for that offence for every day
              or part of a day during which the offence continues after
              conviction.

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                Sections 2 and 113

             TYPES OF TRUSTS THAT ARE NOT REGARDED AS
                  BUSINESS TRUSTS FOR PURPOSES OF ACT

 1. A trust operated by a person otherwise than by way of business.

 2. A trust under which each of the unitholders carries on a business other than
investment business and enters into the trust solely incidental to that other
business.

 3. A trust under which each of the unitholders is a related corporation of the
trustee, except for a trust that has received approval-in-principle, or eligibility-to-
list, for its admission to the official list of an approved exchange and such
approval-in-principle or eligibility-to-list has not expired or been revoked.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2022 wef 12/03/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
171  Business Trusts Act 2004                                 2020 Ed.

     THE SCHEDULE — continued

 4. A trust made by or on behalf of a corporation solely for the benefit of persons
each of whom is either a bona fide director, a former director, a consultant, an
adviser, an employee or a former employee of that corporation or a related
corporation of that corporation, or a spouse, a widow, a widower or a child, an
adopted child or a stepchild below the age of 18 of such director, former director,
employee or former employee.

 5. A trust made by or on behalf of 2 or more corporations solely for the benefit of
persons each of whom is either a bona fide director, a former director, a consultant,
an adviser, an employee or a former employee of any of those corporations or a
related corporation of any of those corporations, or a spouse, a widow, a widower
or a child, an adopted child or a stepchild below the age of 18 of such director,
former director, employee or former employee.

6. A franchise as defined in section 2(1) of the Securities and Futures Act 2001.

 7. A trust under which money is received by an advocate and solicitor from his
or her client, whether as a stakeholder or otherwise, acting in his or her
professional capacity in the ordinary course of his or her practice, or under which
money is received by a statutory body as a stakeholder in the carrying out of its
statutory functions.

 8. A trust made by any co-operative society registered under the Co‑operative
Societies Act 1979 in accordance with the objects of the co‑operative society
solely for the benefit of its members.

 9. A trust made for the purposes of any chit fund permitted to operate under the
Chit Funds Act 1971.

 10. A trust arising out of a life policy within the meaning of the Insurance
Act 1966.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
               BUSINESS TRUSTS ACT 2004

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 30 of 2004 — Business Trusts Act 2004

Bill           : 28/2004

First Reading  : 20 July 2004

Second and Third Readings : 1 September 2004

Commencement   : 12 October 2004

2. 2005 Revised Edition — Business Trusts Act (Chapter 31A)

Operation      : 31 July 2005

3. Act 42 of 2005 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2005
   (Amendments made by section 5 read with item (5) of the First Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill           : 30/2005

First Reading  : 17 October 2005

Second and Third Readings : 21 November 2005

Commencement   : 1 April 2006 (section 5 read with
                     item (5) of the First Schedule)

4. Act 2 of 2007 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2007
   (Amendments made by section 4 read with item (2) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill           : 14/2006

First Reading  : 8 November 2006

Second and Third Readings : 22 January 2007

Commencement   : 1 March 2007 (section 4 read with
                     item (2) of the Schedule)

5. Act 2 of 2009 — Securities and Futures (Amendment) Act 2009
   (Amendments made by section 118 of the above Act)

Bill           : 23/2008

First Reading  : 15 September 2008

Second and Third Readings : 19 January 2009

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
               ii

Commencement   : 29 March 2010 (section 118(g))
                     26 November 2010 (section 118(f))
                     19 November 2012 (section 118(a) to
                     (e) and (h))

6. Act 10 of 2013 — Financial Institutions (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act
                         2013

   (Amendments made by section 3 of the above Act)

Bill           : 4/2013

First Reading  : 4 February 2013

Second and Third Readings : 15 March 2013

Commencement   : 18 April 2013 (section 3)

7. Act 5 of 2014 — Subordinate Courts (Amendment) Act 2014
   (Amendments made by section 11(9) read with item 2 of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill           : 26/2013

First Reading  : 11 November 2013

Second and Third Readings : 21 January 2014

Commencement   : 7 March 2014 (section 11(9) read with
                     item 2 of the Schedule)

8. Act 35 of 2014 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2014
   (Amendments made by section 5 of the above Act)

Bill           : 24/2014

First Reading  : 8 September 2014

Second and Third Readings : 7 October 2014

Commencement   : 1 July 2015 (section 5)

9. Act 4 of 2017 — Securities and Futures (Amendment) Act 2017
   (Amendments made by section 196 of the above Act)

Bill           : 35/2016

First Reading  : 7 November 2016

Second and Third Readings : 9 January 2017

Commencement   : 8 October 2018 (section 196)

10. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 457 of the above Act )

Bill           : 32/2018

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
               iii

First Reading  : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement   : 30 July 2020 (section 457)

11. 2020 Revised Edition — Business Trusts Act 2004

Operation      : 31 December 2021

12. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by)

Bill           : 18/2021

First Reading  : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement   : 1 April 2022

13. Act 17 of 2023 — Companies, Business Trusts and Other Bodies
                             (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2023

     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 14/2023

First Reading  : 18 April 2023

Second and Third Readings : 9 May 2023

Commencement   : 1 July 2023

14. Act 30 of 2022 — Business Trusts (Amendment) Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 22/2022

First Reading  : 12 September 2022

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 2022

Commencement   : 12 March 2024

15. Act 5 of 2025 — Electronic Gazette and Legislation Act 2025

Bill           : 47/2024

First Reading  : 11 November 2024

Second and Third Readings : 7 January 2025

Commencement   : 9 March 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
.                                 iv
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
