THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
           NATIONAL PARKS BOARD ACT 1996

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                         2020 Ed.

National Parks Board Act 1996

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

                      RECONSTITUTION OF BOARD

3. Reconstitution of National Parks Board
4. Common seal
5. Constitution of Board

                                        PART 3

                  FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF BOARD

 6. Functions of Board
 7. Powers of Board
 8. Directions of Minister
 9. Appointment of committees
10. Ability to delegate, etc.
11. Protection from personal liability

                                        PART 4
                     PROVISIONS RELATING TO STAFF

12. Chief Executive, officers and employees, etc.
13. Public servants

                                        PART 5
                            FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
14. Grants
15. Issue of shares, etc.

                                                      1

                                                         31.12.2021
2        National Parks Board Act 1996                              2020 Ed.

Section  Bank accounts and payments
         Power of investment
   16.   Minister’s approval of estimates
   17.   Financial year
   18.
   19.

                                           PART 6

                   TRANSFER OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND
                               EMPLOYEES TO BOARD

   20. Transfer to Board of property, assets and liabilities
   21. Transfer of employees
   22. Existing agreements and pending proceedings

                                           PART 7

             TRANSFER OF AVA VETERINARY UNDERTAKINGS

   23. Interpretation of this Part
   24. Transfer of undertaking to Board
   25. Transferring secondments and employees to Board
   26. General preservation of employment terms
   27. Transfer of records
   28. Confirmation of undertaking transferred

                                           PART 8

                                         GENERAL

   29. Symbol of Board
   30. Exclusion of liability for information supplied by Board
   31. All moneys recovered to be paid to Board
   32. Power to make regulations

            First Schedule — Constitution and Proceedings of Board
            Second Schedule — Powers of Board
            Third Schedule — Provisions relating to Transfer of

                                      Employees

An Act to reconstitute the National Parks Board and to provide for the
  transfer of the property, rights and liabilities of the Parks and
2020 Ed.  National Parks Board Act 1996  3

Recreation Department to the National Parks Board, and for matters
connected therewith.

                                         [1 July 1996]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the National Parks Board Act 1996.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “animal” includes a mammal (other than a human being), a bird,
         a reptile, an amphibian, a fish, a mollusc, an arthropod, and
         the young or egg of any animal;
      “animal-related services” includes any of the following
         activities:

              (a) bathing, grooming or clipping of animals;

              (b) treatment, vaccination or inoculation of animals;

              (c) providing accommodation or boarding to or training
                   of animals;

              (d) exhibiting (whether or not for sale) of animals;

              (e) trapping, restraining or immobilising animals;
      “animal-related services industry” means an industry consisting

         of persons carrying out any animal-related services in the
         course of business;
      “Board” means the National Parks Board established under the
         repealed National Parks Act (Cap. 198A, 1991 Revised
         Edition) in force before 1 July 1996 and continued by
         section 3;
      “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Board and includes
         any acting Chairperson of the Board;

                                         31.12.2021
4  National Parks Board Act 1996          2020 Ed.

   “Chief Executive” means the Chief Executive of the Board and
      includes any person acting in that capacity;

   “landscape industry” means an industry comprising persons
      who carry on any business or engage in any commercial
      activity in connection with one or more, or any part, or any
      combination, of the following:

   (a) landscaping works and services;

   (b) the supply of plants or landscaping or related
        products;

   (c) the growing and supply of flowers and ornamental
       plants;

   “landscaping works and services” includes the provision of
      services in landscape design, landscape architecture, planting
      and landscaping, arboriculture maintenance, horticulture
      maintenance and turf maintenance;

   “member” means a member of the Board;

   “national park” has the meaning given by the Parks and Trees
      Act 2005;

   “nature reserve” has the meaning given by the Parks and Trees
      Act 2005;

   “organism” has the meaning given by the Parks and Trees
      Act 2005;

   “Parks and Recreation Department” means the Parks and
      Recreation Department of the Ministry of National
      Development;

   “plant” has the meaning given by the Parks and Trees Act 2005;

   “public authority” means a body corporate established by a
      public Act for the purposes of a public function;

   “public park” has the meaning given by the Parks and Trees
      Act 2005;
2020 Ed.  National Parks Board Act 1996                      5

“subdelegate” means a person to whom a delegate under
   section 10(2) further delegates the performance or exercise
   of any of the Board’s functions, duties or powers;

“transfer date” means 1 April 2019;

“veterinary establishment” means any premises or place in
   which veterinary medicine is practised or veterinary services
   are provided;

“veterinary medicine” means any branch or art of veterinary
   medicine and includes veterinary surgery;

“veterinary product” means any chemical, substance or
   equipment used or designed for use in the practice of
   veterinary medicine or the provision of veterinary services;

“veterinary science industry” means an industry consisting of
   persons carrying on business, or who engage in commercial
   activity, involving all or any of the following:

          (a) the practice of veterinary medicine;

          (b) the provision of veterinary services;

          (c) the management of a veterinary establishment;

          (d) the supply of veterinary products;

“veterinary service” means a service provided in relation to an
   animal in the control or the possession of a person for any of
   the following purposes:

          (a) assessing, recording, maintaining or improving the
               health, welfare, comfort or wellbeing of the animal;

          (b) diagnosing or treating an illness, disability, disorder
               or condition of the animal;

          (c) examining or attending to the animal, including
              administering a veterinary product to or performing
              any surgical procedure on the animal;

          (d) performing any cosmetic procedure (including
               surgery) on the animal;

          (e) castrating or spaying of the animal;

                                                     31.12.2021
6  National Parks Board Act 1996  2020 Ed.

   (f) giving advice based on a diagnosis or an examination
       mentioned in paragraph (b) or (c) or connected with a
       procedure in paragraph (d) or (e), including
       prescribing treatment, drugs, medications or
       medical appliances.

                                                                               [9/2017; 10/2019]

                                    PART 2

                    RECONSTITUTION OF BOARD

Reconstitution of National Parks Board

 3. As from 1 July 1996, the Board continues in existence and
continues to be a body corporate with perpetual succession and
capable of —

       (a) suing and being sued;

       (b) acquiring, owning, holding, developing and disposing of
            property, movable and immovable; and

       (c) doing and suffering such other acts or things as bodies
            corporate may lawfully do and suffer.

Common seal

 4.—(1) As from 1 July 1996, the Board continues to have a
common seal and the seal may be broken, changed, altered and made
anew as the Board thinks fit.

 (2) All deeds and other documents requiring the seal of the Board
must be sealed with the common seal of the Board and every
document to which the common seal is affixed must be signed by any
2 members generally or specially authorised by the Board for the
purpose or by one member so authorised and the Chief Executive.

 (3) Any document purporting to be a document duly executed
under the seal of the Board is to be received in evidence and is, unless
the contrary is proved, deemed to be a document so executed.

 (4) The Board may, by resolution or otherwise in writing, appoint
an officer of the Board or any other agent either generally or in a
particular case to execute or sign on behalf of the Board any
2020 Ed.  National Parks Board Act 1996  7

agreement or other instrument not under seal in relation to any matter
coming within the powers of the Board.

Constitution of Board

 5. The First Schedule has effect with respect to the Board and its
members.

                                    PART 3

              FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF BOARD

Functions of Board
 6.—(1) The functions of the Board are —

       (a) to control, administer and manage the national parks and
            nature reserves;

       (b) to plan, design, develop, manage and maintain public
            parks;

       (c) to provide, manage and maintain park and recreational
            infrastructure and facilities in the national parks, nature
            reserves and public parks;

       (d) to propagate, protect and preserve the animals, plants and
            other organisms of Singapore and, within the national
            parks, nature reserves and public parks, to preserve objects
            and places of aesthetic, historical or scientific interest;

       (e) to promote and protect the welfare, safety and health of
            animals, including controlling the following:

               (i) the use of animals in research, testing or teaching;

              (ii) the supply of veterinary products;

             (iii) the trapping or killing of animals in a wild state;

        (f) to manage the animal population in Singapore;
       (g) to prevent and manage threats and risks —

               (i) to animal health, animal welfare or plant health or all
                   of them;

                                         31.12.2021
8  National Parks Board Act 1996                          2020 Ed.

   (ii) to terrestrial and aquatic environments arising from
        animals or plants, or pests or diseases carried by
        animals or plants; and

   (iii) to public health and safety from animals or plants, or
         pests or diseases carried by animals or plants;

   (h) to regulate trade in endangered species of animals and
        plants;

   (i) to regulate veterinary establishments, practitioners of
       veterinary medicine and persons who provide veterinary
       services in the course of business;

   (j) to cooperate and collaborate in particular with —

   (i) any public officer, public authority or Health Officer
       in the administration of the Infectious Diseases
       Act 1976;

   (ii) the Health Sciences Authority in the administration
        of the Health Products Act 2007;

   (iii) the Director-General of Public Health and the
         Director-General, Food Administration in the
         administration of the Environmental Public Health
         Act 1987; and

   (iv) the Director-General, Food Administration in the
        discharge of functions or powers under any written
        law;

   (k) to provide and control facilities for the study of and
       research into matters relating to animals, plants and other
       organisms in Singapore and the physical conditions in
       which they live;

   (l) to exhibit objects illustrative of the life sciences, applied
       sciences, history, technology and industry;

   (m) to promote the study, research and dissemination of
        knowledge in veterinary medicine, animal-related
        services, botany, horticulture, biotechnology,
        arboriculture, landscape architecture, parks and
        recreation management and natural and local history;
2020 Ed.  National Parks Board Act 1996  9

(n) to provide, manage and promote recreational, cultural,
     historical, research and educational facilities and resources
     in national parks, nature reserves and public parks and
     encourage their full and proper use by members of the
     public;

(o) to advise the Government on all matters relating to animal
     health and welfare, plant health, veterinary medicine,
     animal-related services, nature conservation and the
     planning, development and management of public parks;

(p) to manage on behalf of the Government any State land
     used or to be used by the landscape industry,
     animal-related services industry or veterinary science
     industry in Singapore and to promote the optimisation of
     the use of such land;

(q) to promote the development, productivity and efficiency of
     the landscape industry, animal-related services industry or
     veterinary science industry in Singapore;

          (r) to promote the advancement of skills and expertise of
              individuals in relation to any subject mentioned in
              paragraph (m) and of individuals employed in the
              landscape industry, animal-related services industry or
              veterinary science industry in Singapore;

          (s) to represent the Government internationally on matters that
              relate to animal health and welfare, plant health, wildlife
              trade control and biodiversity, and matters connected with
              the landscape industry, animal-related services industry
              and veterinary science industry in Singapore; and

        (t) to carry out such other functions and duties as are imposed
            upon the Board by or under this Act or any other written
            law.

                                                                                                 [9/2017; 10/2019]

 (2) In addition to the functions of the Board under subsection (1),
the Board may undertake any other functions that the Minister may,
by notification in the Gazette, assign to the Board and in so doing the

                                         31.12.2021
10  National Parks Board Act 1996  2020 Ed.

Board is deemed to be fulfilling the purposes of this Act and the
provisions of this Act apply to the Board in respect of those functions.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (3) Nothing in this section imposes on the Board, directly or
indirectly, any form of duty or liability enforceable by proceedings
before any court to which the Board would not otherwise be subject.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

Powers of Board

 7.—(1) The Board may, for the purposes of this Act, carry on any
activity that appears to the Board to be advantageous, necessary or
convenient for it to carry on for or in connection with the discharge of
its duties and functions under this Act, or which is incidental or
conducive to the discharge of those duties and functions, and, in
particular, may exercise any of the powers specified in the
Second Schedule.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (2) This section is not to be construed as limiting any power of the
Board conferred by or under any other written law.

Directions of Minister

 8.—(1) The Minister may, after consulting the Board, give to the
Board any direction under section 5 of the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Board must provide the Minister with such information or
facilities for obtaining information with respect to its property and
activities in such manner and at such times as the Minister may
require.

Appointment of committees

 9. The Board may appoint from among its own members or other
persons who are not members any number of committees consisting
of members or other persons or members and other persons for
purposes which, in the opinion of the Board, would be better
regulated and managed by means of those committees.
2020 Ed.  National Parks Board Act 1996                            11

Ability to delegate, etc.

 10.—(1) The Board may delegate the performance or exercise of
any of its functions, duties or powers under this Act or any other Act,
either generally or specially, to any of the following persons by
resolution and written notice to the person or persons:

(a) a member of the Board;

(b) the Chief Executive, any employee of the Board or any
     other person performing duties in the Board;

          (c) a committee of the Board appointed under section 9;

(d) a wholly-owned subsidiary company of the Board;

       (e) a person engaged as a contractor by the Board.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (2) A delegation by the Board under subsection (1) of the
performance or exercise of any of its functions, duties or powers —

(a) to a person in subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c) may authorise the
     delegate to subdelegate the performance or exercise of the
     function, duty or power to another member, an
     appropriately qualified employee of the Board or person
     performing duties in the Board (called in this Act a
     subdelegate); or

(b) to a person in subsection (1)(d) or (e) may authorise the
     delegate to subdelegate the performance or exercise of the
     function, duty or power to an appropriately qualified
     employee of that delegate (also called in this Act a
     subdelegate),

but subject to the same restrictions, and with the same effect, as if the
subdelegate were the delegate.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (3) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to —

(a) the power to borrow money;

(b) the power to raise or grant loans or advances to or
     subscribe to stocks, shares, bonds or debentures of a
     company or corporation; or

                                         31.12.2021
12  National Parks Board Act 1996  2020 Ed.

       (c) any other function, duty or power under this Act or any
            other Act administered by the Board that is declared by this
            Act or that Act to be non-delegable.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (4) A subdelegate to whom a function, duty or power of the Board is
subdelegated under this section is not authorised to further delegate
that function, duty or power to anyone else.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (5) A delegation or subdelegation in accordance with this Act is not
affected by any change in the membership of the Board or of any
committee or by any change in the Chief Executive or any employee.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (6) A delegate (or subdelegate) who purports to perform a function
or duty or exercise a power under delegation (or subdelegation) —

    (a) is taken to do so in accordance with the terms of a
         delegation (or subdelegation) under this section, unless the
         contrary is shown; and

      (b) must produce evidence of the delegate’s (or subdelegate’s)
           authority to do so, if reasonably requested to do so.

                                                                                                         [10/2019]

(7) In this section —

    (a) a reference to a wholly-owned subsidiary company of the
         Board includes a company limited by guarantee the sole
         member of which is the Board; and

    (b) a reference to a person performing duties in the Board
         includes a person performing duties in the Board under a
         contract, or under an arrangement making available
         temporarily to the Board the services of public officers
         (or secondment).

                                                                                                     [10/2019]

Protection from personal liability

 11. No liability shall lie against any member, any committee
member, the Chief Executive or any employee, delegate or
subdelegate of the Board, or any other person acting under the
direction of the Board, for anything which is done or purported to be
2020 Ed.  National Parks Board Act 1996  13

done, or omitted to be done, in good faith and with reasonable care
in —

(a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
     Act; or

(b) the performance or purported performance of any function
     under this Act.

                                                                                                 [10/2019]

                                    PART 4

                 PROVISIONS RELATING TO STAFF

Chief Executive, officers and employees, etc.

 12.—(1) There must be a Chief Executive of the Board, whose
appointment, removal, discipline and promotion must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Board may appoint, subject to the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018, an individual to act temporarily as the
Chief Executive during any period, or during all periods, when the
Chief Executive —

       (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (3) The Board may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint and employ, on such terms and conditions as it may
determine, such other officers, employees, consultants and agents as
may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

                                                                               [13

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Public servants

 13. Without affecting sections 20 and 21 of the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018, every subdelegate of the Board —

       (a) is taken to be a public servant for the purposes of the Penal
            Code 1871 in relation to the subdelegate’s performance or

                                                                                              31.12.2021
14  National Parks Board Act 1996  2020 Ed.

    exercise of the Board’s functions, duties or powers under
    this Act or any other written law; and

    (b) is, in relation to the administration, assessment, collection
         or enforcement of payment of —

    (i) any financial penalty imposed under any written law
        administered by the Board; or

    (ii) any composition sum collected under this Act or any
         other written law administered by the Board,

    taken to be a public officer for the purposes of the Financial
    Procedure Act 1966; and section 20 of that Act applies to
    each of the subdelegates even though the subdelegate is not
    or was not in the employment of the Government.

                                                                      [14

                                                                                             [10/2019]

                                    PART 5

                        FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Grants

 14. For the purpose of enabling the Board to carry out its functions
under this Act, the Minister may, from time to time, make grants to
the Board of such sums of money as the Minister may determine out
of moneys to be provided by Parliament.

                                                                               [15

Issue of shares, etc.

 15. As a consequence of the vesting of any property, rights or
liabilities of the Government in the Board under this Act, or of any
capital injection or other investment by the Government in the Board
in accordance with any written law, the Board must issue such shares
or other securities to the Minister for Finance as that Minister may
direct.

                                                                             [15A
2020 Ed.  National Parks Board Act 1996  15

Bank accounts and payments

 16.—(1) The Board may open and maintain an account or accounts
with such bank or banks as the Board thinks fit and every such
account must be operated as far as practicable by cheque signed by
such person or persons authorised to do so by the Board.

 (2) The moneys of the Board are to be applied only in payment or
discharge of the expenses, obligations and liabilities of the Board and
in making any payment that the Board is authorised or required to
make.

Power of investment

 17. The Board may invest its moneys in accordance with the
standard investment power of statutory bodies as defined in
section 33A of the Interpretation Act 1965.

Minister’s approval of estimates

 18.—(1) A copy of all annual estimates of revenue and expenditure
and supplementary estimates must, upon their adoption by the Board,
be sent without delay to the Minister.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Minister may approve or disallow any item or portion of
any item shown in the annual estimates or supplementary estimates.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (3) The Minister must return the annual estimates or supplementary
estimates as amended under subsection (2) to the Board, and the
Board is bound by the Minister’s decision.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Financial year

 19. The financial year of the Board begins on 1 April of each year
and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

                                         31.12.2021
16  National Parks Board Act 1996        2020 Ed.

    PART 6

    TRANSFER OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND
                EMPLOYEES TO BOARD

Transfer to Board of property, assets and liabilities

 20.—(1) As from 1 July 1996, all movable property vested in the
Government immediately before that date for the purposes of the
Parks and Recreation Department, and all assets, rights or interests
vested in, and all outstanding debts, liabilities and obligations
incurred by, the Government in connection therewith are
transferred to and vest in the Board without further assurance.

 (2) If any question arises as to whether any particular movable
property vested in the Government, or whether any particular asset,
right, interest, liability or obligation of the Government has been
transferred to or vested in the Board under subsection (1), a certificate
under the hand of the Minister for Finance is conclusive evidence that
the property, asset, right, interest, liability or obligation was or was
not so transferred or vested.

Transfer of employees

 21.—(1) As from 1 July 1996, such persons employed immediately
before that date in the Parks and Recreation Department as the
Minister may determine are transferred to the service of the Board on
terms no less favourable than those enjoyed by them immediately
prior to their transfer.

 (2) The provisions relating to the transfer of employees set out in
the Third Schedule have effect.

Existing agreements and pending proceedings

 22. All deeds, bonds, agreements, instruments and arrangements
subsisting immediately before 1 July 1996 affecting any movable
property transferred under section 20 or any person transferred to the
service of the Board under section 21 continue in full force and effect
on and after that date and are enforceable by or against the Board
instead of the Government or any person acting on its behalf as if the
Board had been named therein or had been a party thereto.
2020 Ed.  National Parks Board Act 1996  17

          PART 7

TRANSFER OF AVA VETERINARY UNDERTAKINGS

                                         [10/2019]

Interpretation of this Part
 23. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority” or “AVA” means the
         Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority established by section 3
         of the Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority Act (Cap. 5,
         2012 Revised Edition);
      “asset”, in relation to the transferor, means property of any kind
         (whether tangible or intangible, whether arising from,
         accruing under, created or evidenced by or the subject of,
         an instrument or otherwise and whether actual or contingent)
         of the transferor on the eve of the transfer date and includes,
         without limitation, any —

              (a) legal or equitable interest in real or personal property;

              (b) chose in action;

              (c) security;

              (d) money;

              (e) intellectual property;

              (f) infrastructure, plant and equipment;

              (g) records and information (including data) in any form;
                   and

              (h) right;
      “AVA veterinary undertaking” means the departments of the

         transferor as follows:

              (a) the Community Animal Management Group;

              (b) the Corporate Development Group 2;

              (c) the Industry and Biosecurity Management Group;

                                         31.12.2021
18  National Parks Board Act 1996            2020 Ed.

    (d) the office of the Director-General, Agri-Food and
         Veterinary Services;

    (e) the Plant Science and Health Group;

    (f) the Professional and Scientific Services Group;

    (g) the Wildlife Management Group;

    “liability”, in relation to the transferor, means any liability, duty
       or obligation (whether actual or contingent, liquidated or
       unliquidated, and whether owed alone or jointly, or jointly
       and severally, with any other person) of the transferor on the
       eve of the transfer date;

    “records”, in relation to the transferor, means registers, papers,
       documents, minutes, receipts, books of account and other
       records, however compiled, recorded or stored, of that
       transferor existing on the eve of the transfer date;

    “right”, in relation to the transferor, means any right, power,
       privilege or immunity of the transferor on the eve of the
       transfer date;

    “transferor” means the Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority;

    “transferring employee” means an employee of the transferor
       who, on the eve of the transfer date, is deployed in the AVA
       veterinary undertaking.

                                             [10/2019]

Transfer of undertaking to Board

 24.—(1) On the transfer date, all assets and liabilities of the
transferor that relate to the functions of the AVA veterinary
undertaking are transferred to the Board.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (2) When any assets or liabilities are transferred under
subsection (1), the following provisions have effect:

       (a) the assets of the transferor that are the subject of the
            transfer vest in the Board by virtue of this section and
            without the need for any further conveyance, transfer,
            assignment or assurance;
2020 Ed.  National Parks Board Act 1996  19

(b) the liabilities of the transferor that are the subject of the
     transfer become by virtue of this section the liabilities of
     the Board;

          (c) all legal or other proceedings relating to those assets or
              liabilities that are started before the transfer date by or
              against the transferor or a predecessor of the transferor and
              pending immediately before that date are taken to be
              proceedings pending by or against the Board;

(d) any legal or other proceedings relating to those assets or
     liabilities which could have been started immediately
     before the transfer date by or against the transferor or a
     predecessor of the transferor may be started by or against
     the Board;

          (e) a judgment or order of a court or other tribunal obtained
              before the transfer date by or against the transferor or a
              predecessor of the transferor relating to those assets or
              liabilities may be enforced by or against the Board;

          (f) any document relating to legal or other proceedings
              relating to those assets or liabilities that has been served
              on or by the transferor or a predecessor of the transferor
              before the transfer date is taken, where appropriate, to have
              been served on or by the Board;

(g) any act, matter or thing done or omitted to be done before
     the transfer date in relation to those assets or liabilities by,
     to or in respect of the transferor or a predecessor of the
     transferor is (to the extent to which that act, matter or thing
     has any force or effect) taken to have been done or omitted
     by, to or in respect of the Board;

(h) a reference in any written law, in any instrument made
     under any Act, in any contract, agreement, arrangement or
     undertaking, or in any document of any kind to the
     transferor or a predecessor of the transferor, to the extent to
     which the reference relates to those assets or liabilities, is
     taken to be, or includes, a reference to the Board;

                                         31.12.2021
20  National Parks Board Act 1996  2020 Ed.

      (i) a reference in any written law, in any instrument made
           under any Act, in any contract, agreement, arrangement or
           undertaking, or in any document of any kind to an officer
           of the transferor, as regards anything falling to be done or
           capable of being done on or after the transfer date and to
           the extent to which the reference relates to those assets or
           liabilities, is taken to be, or includes, a reference to an
           officer of the Board whom the Board appoints for that
           purpose.

                                                                                                         [10/2019]

(3) In particular —

    (a) all security deposits deposited with the transferor in
         relation to any asset or liability transferred under
         subsection (1) and not forfeited before the transfer date;
         and

    (b) the benefits of all indemnities, guarantees or warranties
         given to the transferor in relation to any asset or liability
         transferred under subsection (1) and not discharged before
         that date,

are, without further assurance, transferred and deemed deposited with
or given to the Board.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (4) The operation of this section does not —

    (a) constitute a breach of, or default under, an Act or other law,
         or otherwise a civil wrong or criminal wrong;

    (b) constitute a breach of duty of confidence (whether arising
         by contract, in equity, by custom, or in any other way);

    (c) constitute a breach of any contractual provision
        prohibiting, restricting or regulating the assignment or
        transfer of assets or liabilities or the disclosure of any
        information;

    (d) terminate an agreement or obligation, or fulfil any
         condition that allows a person to terminate any
         agreement or obligation, or give rise to any right or
         remedy in respect of any agreement or obligation;
2020 Ed.  National Parks Board Act 1996  21

          (e) cause any contract or other instrument to be void or
              otherwise unenforceable;

          (f) frustrate any contract;

(g) release a surety or other obligor or obligee wholly or in part
     from an obligation; or

       (h) constitute an event of breach of, or default under, any
            contract or other instrument.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (5) No attornment to the Board by a lessee from the transferor is
required for the purpose of this section.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

Transferring secondments and employees to Board

 25.—(1) On the transfer date, every transferring employee —

       (a) stops being an employee of the transferor; and

       (b) is each transferred to the service, and becomes an
            employee, of the Board on terms no less favourable than
            those enjoyed by the employee on the eve of the transfer
            date.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (2) The transfer of a transferring employee to the Board —

       (a) does not interrupt continuity of service;

       (b) does not constitute a retrenchment or redundancy; and

       (c) does not entitle any employee so transferred to any
            payment or other benefit merely because he or she stops
            being employed by the transferor.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (3) A certificate purporting to be signed by the Minister certifying
that an individual named in the certificate was, with effect from the
transfer date, employed by virtue of this section by the Board, is
admissible in evidence in any proceedings as evidence of the matters
stated in it.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

                                         31.12.2021
22  National Parks Board Act 1996                     2020 Ed.

(4) Nothing in this section prevents —

    (a) any of the terms and conditions of employment of an
         individual transferred under this section from being altered
         by or under any law, award or agreement with effect from
         any time after the transfer date; and

    (b) an individual transferred under this section from resigning
         from the Board at any time after the transfer date, in
         accordance with the terms and conditions of his or her
         employment then applicable.

                                                                                                     [10/2019]

 (5) To avoid doubt, section 18A of the Employment Act 1968 does
not apply to the transfer under this Part of any transferring employee
to the Board.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (6) On the transfer date, every public officer or employee of any
other public authority whose services are made available (or is
seconded) to any department in the AVA veterinary undertaking
pursuant to an agreement or arrangement that —

    (a) is between the Government or that other public authority
         and the Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority; and

    (b) is in force on the eve of the transfer date,

continues on secondment to the Board.

                                                      [10/2019]

General preservation of employment terms

 26.—(1) The service with the transferor of an employee transferred
under section 25 (called in this section a transferred employee) must
be regarded for all purposes as having been continuous with the
service of the employee with the Board immediately before the
transfer date.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (2) On the transfer date —

       (a) a transferred employee retains all accrued rights as if
            employment with the Board were a continuation of
            employment with the transferor;
2020 Ed.  National Parks Board Act 1996  23

(b) the liabilities of the transferor relating to the transferred
     employee’s accrued rights to leave and superannuation
     become the liabilities of the Board; and

       (c) a reference to the transferor in the contract of employment
            that had effect in relation to the transferred employee
            immediately before the transfer date is taken to be, or
            includes, a reference to the Board.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (3) For any conduct of a transferred employee when he or she was
employed by the transferor which would have rendered the employee
liable to be reprimanded, reduced in rank, retired, dismissed or
punished by the transferor, the Board may —

(a) start any disciplinary proceedings against the employee;

(b) carry on and complete any disciplinary proceedings started
     by the transferor against the transferred employee if those
     proceedings are pending on the eve of the transfer date; and

       (c) reprimand, reduce in rank, retire, dismiss or otherwise
            punish a transferred employee, as if the employee were not
            transferred.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (4) Where, on the eve of the transfer date, any matter about the
conduct of a transferred employee during his or her employment with
the transferor —

(a) was in the course of being heard or investigated by a
     committee of the transferor acting under due authority; or

(b) had been heard or investigated by a committee of the
     transferor acting under due authority but no order, ruling or
     direction had been made,

that committee must complete the hearing or investigation and make
such order, ruling or direction as it could have made under the
authority vested in it before that date, and that order, ruling or
direction is to be regarded as an order, ruling or direction of the
Board.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

                                         31.12.2021
24  National Parks Board Act 1996   2020 Ed.

 (5) Until such time as conditions of employment are drawn up by
the Board for a transferred employee, the transferred employee is to
be regarded as being employed by the Board on the same conditions
of his or her employment with the transferor on the eve of the transfer
date.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (6) Any condition of employment relating to the length of service
with the Board must recognise the length of service of the employees
so transferred while in the employment of the transferor (including
any previous service of the employee taken to be service with the
transferor) to be service with the Board.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (7) Nothing in section 25(6) —

    (a) breaks the continuity of service of the public officer or
         employee of another public authority whose secondment
         continues with the Board because of that provision; or

    (b) affects any rights, powers or immunities that such a public
         officer or an employee of a public authority has, or the
         extent to which such a public officer or an employee (as the
         case may be) is subject to obligations or liabilities in
         relation to discipline, by virtue of holding the office or
         position to which the officer or employee is seconded.

                                                                                                     [10/2019]

Transfer of records

 27. On the transfer date, every record, or part of any record, of the
transferor that relates to —

    (a) any asset or liability transferred to the Board under
         section 24; or

    (b) any transferring employee,

becomes the record of the Board.

                                      [26A

                                    [10/2019]
2020 Ed.  National Parks Board Act 1996  25

Confirmation of undertaking transferred

28.—(1) If any dispute arises —

(a) as to whether an asset or a liability or a record is transferred
     under section 24 or 27; or

(b) as to whether any, or any part of any, contract or document
     relates to an asset or a liability, or a record, transferred
     under section 24 or 27,

the Minister for Finance may determine the matter and is to provide
the concerned parties with written notice of that determination.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (2) The determination of the Minister for Finance under
subsection (1) is final and binding on the transferor and the Board.

                                                                             [26B

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

                                    PART 8

                                  GENERAL

Symbol of Board

 29.—(1) The Board has the exclusive right to the use of such
symbols or representations as it may select or devise (called in this
section the Board’s symbols) and thereafter display or exhibit in
connection with its activities or affairs.

 (2) Any person who, without the permission of the Board, uses a
symbol or representation identical with any of the Board’s symbols,
or which so resembles any of the Board’s symbols as to or be likely to
deceive or cause confusion, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                                                               [27

                                         31.12.2021
26  National Parks Board Act 1996                         2020 Ed.

Exclusion of liability for information supplied by Board

 30. Where the Board provides a service to the public whereby
information is supplied to the public on payment of a prescribed fee,
neither the Board nor any of its employees involved in the supply of
such information shall be liable for any loss or damage suffered by
members of the public by reason of any error or omission of whatever
nature appearing therein or however caused if made in good faith and
in the ordinary course of the discharge of the duties of those
employees.

                                                                               [28

All moneys recovered to be paid to Board

 31.—(1) All moneys recovered or sums collected under this Act or
any other Act administered by the Board, other than composition
sums, are to be paid into and form part of the general funds of the
Board.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (2) All composition sums collected under any Act administered by
the Board are to be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                               [29

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

Power to make regulations

 32.—(1) The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Board may, with the
approval of the Minister, make regulations for or with respect to all or
any of the following matters:

       (a) regulating the proceedings of the Board or of the
            committees of the Board;

       (b) the manner of appointment, conduct and discipline and the
            terms and conditions of service of the employees of the
            Board;

       (c) the establishment of funds for the payment of gratuities and
            other benefits to employees of the Board;
2020 Ed.  National Parks Board Act 1996  27

(d) any other matter which by this Act is required or permitted
     to be prescribed or is necessary or convenient to be
     prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to any provision
     of this Act.
                                                                       [40

                             FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                                            Section 5

               CONSTITUTION AND PROCEEDINGS OF BOARD

 1. The Board consists of —

        (a) a Chairperson; and

        (b) not less than 6 but not more than 10 other members as the Minister may
             determine.

 2.—(1) The Chairperson and members of the Board are appointed by the
Minister.

 (2) The Minister may appoint one member to be the Deputy Chairperson who
may, subject to such directions as may be given by the Chairperson, exercise all or
any of the powers exercisable by the Chairperson under this Act.

 (3) The Minister may appoint the Chief Executive to be a member of the Board.

 3. A member holds office on such conditions and for such term as the Minister
may determine and is eligible for re-appointment.

 4. The Minister may appoint any member of the Board to be a temporary
Chairperson or temporary Deputy Chairperson during the incapacity from illness
or otherwise of the Chairperson or the Deputy Chairperson, as the case may be.

 5. The Minister may, at any time, revoke the appointment of the Chairperson or
any member without giving any reason.

 6. Any member may resign from his or her appointment at any time by giving
written notice to the Minister.

 7. The Minister may appoint a person to be a temporary member of the Board
during the incapacity from illness or otherwise of any member.

 8. The Chairperson may, in writing, authorise any member to exercise any
power or perform any function conferred on the Chairperson by or under this Act.

 9. The office of a member is vacated if the member —

        (a) has been absent, without leave of the Board, from 3 consecutive
             meetings of the Board; or

                                         31.12.2021
28  National Parks Board Act 1996                             2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

    (b) becomes in any manner disqualified from membership of the Board
         under paragraph 11.

 10. If a member resigns, dies or has his or her appointment revoked or otherwise
vacates his or her office before the expiry of the term for which he or she has been
appointed, the Minister may appoint a person to fill the vacancy for the remainder
of the term of which the vacating member was appointed.

 11. A person must not be appointed or continue to hold office as a member if he
or she —

    (a) is an undischarged bankrupt or has made any arrangement with his or
         her creditors;

    (b) has been sentenced to imprisonment for a term of at least 6 months and
         has not received a free pardon; or

    (c) has a mental disorder and is incapable of managing himself or herself
        or his or her affairs.

 12. There are to be paid to the Chairperson and other members out of the funds
of the Board such salaries, fees and allowances as the Minister may determine.

 13.—(1) The Board is to meet for the despatch of business at such times and
places as the Chairperson may appoint.

(2) At every meeting of the Board, 5 members form a quorum.

 (3) A decision at a meeting of the Board is adopted by a simple majority of the
members present and voting except that in the case of an equality of votes the
Chairperson or member presiding has a casting vote in addition to his or her
original vote.

 (4) The Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the Deputy Chairperson presides at
meetings of the Board.

 (5) Where both the Chairperson and the Deputy Chairperson are absent at a
meeting of the Board, such member as the members present may elect presides at
the meeting of the Board.

 (6) Where at least 4 members of the Board request the Chairperson by written
notice signed by them to convene a meeting of the Board for any purpose specified
in the notice, the Chairperson must, within 7 days from the receipt of the notice,
convene a meeting for that purpose.

14. The Board may act despite any vacancy in its membership.

 15. Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, the Board may make rules to regulate its own procedure generally, and
in particular, regarding the holding and proceedings of meetings, the notice to be
2020 Ed.  National Parks Board Act 1996  29

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

given of the meetings, the keeping of minutes and the custody, production and
inspection of the minutes.

 16. The validity of any proceedings of the Board is not affected by any defect in
the appointment of any member.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

                           SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                                            Section 7

                                  POWERS OF BOARD

 1. To manage the national parks, nature reserves and public parks.

 2. To regulate the planting and maintenance of plants in public parks by
prescribing guidelines and requirements for the design and maintenance thereof.

 3. To lay out, construct, plant, improve, equip, maintain, supervise and control
the national parks, nature reserves and public parks and carry out the following
activities:

        (a) erect any pavilion, recreation room, outhouse or other building;

        (b) provide entertainment or any amenity;

        (c) set apart any part thereof for the purpose of any game or recreation and
             exclude the public from such part while it is in actual use for that
             purpose;

        (d) provide any apparatus for games and recreation and facilities for
             boating and charge for the use thereof;

        (e) place or authorise any person to place chairs or seats and charge or
             authorise any person to charge for the use thereof;

         (f) provide and maintain refreshment stalls, food stalls and restaurants and
             manage them or let them to any person on such conditions as the Board
             may determine;

        (g) authorise any person to erect, maintain and operate any facility and
             charge or authorise any person to charge for the use thereof.

 4. To plant plants in public parks.

 5. To enter into contracts for the supply of goods, services or materials or for the
execution of works or other contracts as may be necessary for the discharge of the
duties and functions of the Board under this Act or any other written law which the
Board is charged with the responsibility to administer.

                                         31.12.2021
30  National Parks Board Act 1996                  2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

 6. To receive fees, donations, grants, gifts of movable or immovable property
from any source or raise funds by any lawful means.

 7. To regulate and control public access to the national parks, nature reserves
and public parks.

8. To promote or undertake publicity in any form.

 9. To make provision for the specialised training of any employee of the Board
and in that connection offer scholarships for such training and expenditure
incidental thereto.

 10. To make awards of recognition, grants, scholarships or contributions as the
Board considers fit for the purposes of this Act.

 11. To develop, conduct and certify training programmes for any subject matter
relating to any function of the Board.

 12. To establish, manage and administer any accreditation or certification
scheme or a register, for any purpose relating to any function of the Board,
including specifying, by notification in the Gazette, accreditation marks and
certification marks of the Board and controlling the use of those accreditation
marks or certification marks.

 13. To offer consultancy services, inform, advise and make recommendations or
proposals to the Government or any person on any matter relating to the
designation, conservation, development and management of parks and other areas
reserved for the propagation of plants and animals, or any other function of the
Board.

 14. To act in combination or association with any person engaged, concerned or
interested in the promotion of the functions of the Board, and pay for or contribute
to the cost and expenses involved in such combination or association.

 15. With the approval of the Minister, to join in the formation of a company,
association, trust or partnership or enter into a joint venture with any person.

16. With the approval of the Minister, to raise loans for the purposes of this Act.

 17. To collect, analyse, compile, publish or disseminate information relating to
such subject matter as may be necessary for the discharge of the functions, objects
or duties of the Board.

 18. To provide technical, consultancy or advisory services to any Government
agency or to any other person or body in Singapore or elsewhere on any matter
related to or connected with the functions, objects or duties of the Board.

 19. To charge fees or commissions for services rendered by the Board or for any
use of any of its facilities.
2020 Ed.  National Parks Board Act 1996                            31

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

20. To carry out promotional activities or publicity in any form.

 21. To organise courses and other programmes that the Board thinks necessary
or desirable for the discharge of its functions, objects or duties.

 22. To apply for, obtain and hold, whether on its own behalf or jointly with any
other person, any intellectual property rights.

 23. To enter into agreements or arrangements for the commercial exploitation of
those intellectual property rights, whether by assignment, licensing or otherwise.

 24. To participate in international, regional and bilateral negotiations on matters
that relate to animal health and welfare, plant health, wildlife trade control and
biodiversity, and to any matters connected with the landscape industry,
animal-related services industry and veterinary science industry.

 25. To engage in research, technology development studies or technical
cooperation projects.

                                                                                                 [9/2017; 10/2019]

                            THIRD SCHEDULE

                                                                                                           Section 21

         PROVISIONS RELATING TO TRANSFER OF EMPLOYEES

 1. The terms and conditions to be drawn up by the Board must take into account
the salaries and terms and conditions of service, including any accrued rights to
leave, enjoyed by the persons transferred to the service of the Board under
section 21 while in the employment of the Government and any term or condition
relating to the length of service with the Board must provide for the recognition of
service under the Government by the persons so transferred to be service by them
under the Board.

 2. Nothing in the terms and conditions to be drawn up by the Board is to
adversely affect the conditions that would have been applicable to persons
transferred to the service of the Board as regards any pension, gratuity or
allowance payable under the Pensions Act 1956.

 3. In every case where a person has been transferred to the service of the Board
under section 21, the Government is liable to pay to the Board such portion of any
gratuity, pension or allowance payable to that person on his or her retirement as the
same bears to the proportion which the aggregate amount of his or her pensionable
emoluments during his or her service with the Government bears to the aggregate
amount of his or her pensionable emoluments during his or her service under both
the Government and the Board.

                                                                   31.12.2021
32  National Parks Board Act 1996  2020 Ed.

    THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

 4. Where any person in the service of the Board whose case does not come
within the scope of any pension or other schemes established under this Schedule
retires or dies in the service of the Board or is discharged from that service, the
Board may grant to him or her or to such other person or persons wholly or partly
dependent on him or her, as the Board thinks fit, such allowance or gratuity as the
Board may determine.

 5. Despite the provisions of the Pensions Act 1956, no person who is transferred
to the service of the Board under section 21 is entitled to claim any benefit under
that Act on the ground that he or she has been retired from the service of the
Government on account of abolition or re-organisation of office in consequence of
his or her transfer to the service of the Board.
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                NATIONAL PARKS BOARD ACT 1996

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                             PART 1
                NATURE RESERVES ACT
      (CHAPTER 205, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance 15 of 1951 — Nature Reserves Ordinance, 1951

Bill                  : G.N. No. S 7/1951

First Reading         : 16 January 1951

Second Reading        : 16 February 1951

Notice of Amendments  : 16 February 1951

Third Reading         : 16 February 1951

Commencement          : 6 March 1951

2. Ordinance 8 of 1955 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Miscellaneous
                                   Amendments) Ordinance, 1955

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 45 of the Schedule to the
   above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 45/1954

First Reading         : 14 December 1954

Second and Third Readings : 28 January 1955

Commencement          : 4 February 1955 (section 2 read with
                            item 45 of the Schedule)

3. Ordinance 7 of 1956 — Nature Reserves (Amendment) Ordinance, 1956

Bill                  : 39/1956

First Reading         : 8 February 1956

                                                           31.12.2021
                      ii

Second and Third Readings : 7 March 1956

Commencement          : 29 March 1956

4. 1955 Revised Edition — Nature Reserves Ordinance (Chapter 235)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

5. G.N. No. S 352/1957 — Legislative Assembly Resolution

Passed                : 4 December 1957

6. G.N. No. S 169/1958 — Legislative Assembly Resolution

Passed                : 16 July 1958

7. Ordinance 31 of 1958 — Legislative Assembly (Presentation of
                                    Subsidiary Legislation) Ordinance, 1958

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above
   Ordinance)

Bill                  : 158/1958

First Reading         : 16 July 1958

Second Reading        : 13 August 1958

Notice of Amendments  : 10 September 1958

Third Reading         : 10 September 1958

Commencement          : 25 September 1958 (section 2 read
                            with the Schedule)

8. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 178/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                           Laws) (No. 4) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

9. G.N. No. S 68/1966 — Parliamentary Resolution

Passed                : 21 April 1966

10. G.N. No. S 347/1968 — Parliamentary Resolution

Passed                : 3 December 1968

11. G.N. No. S 21/1972 — Parliamentary Resolution

Passed                : 30 July 1971

12. 1970 Revised Edition — Nature Reserves Act (Chapter 295)

Operation             : 31 August 1971

13. Act 14 of 1973 — Nature Reserves (Amendment) Act, 1973

Bill                  : 6/1973
               iii

First Reading  : 16 February 1973

Second and Third Readings : 7 March 1973

Commencement   : 28 April 1973

14. G.N. No. S 408/1973 — Parliamentary Resolution

Passed         : 30 November 1973

15. G.N. No. S 9/1986 — Metrication (Nature Reserves Act) Order 1986

Commencement   : 10 January 1986

16. 1985 Revised Edition — Nature Reserves Act (Chapter 205)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

17. Act 7 of 1988 — Nature Reserves (Amendment) Act 1988

Bill           : 4/1988

First Reading  : 4 March 1988

Second and Third Readings : 30 March 1988

Commencement   : 13 May 1988

                                   PART 2
                       NATIONAL PARKS ACT
           (CHAPTER 198A, 1991 REVISED EDITION)

18. Act 10 of 1990 — National Parks Act 1990

Bill           : 12/1990

First Reading  : 13 March 1990

Second and Third Readings : 29 March 1990

Commencement   : 6 June 1990

19. 1991 Revised Edition — National Parks Act (Chapter 198A)

Operation      : 1 March 1991

20. G.N. No. S 263/1995 — National Parks Act (Amendment of First
                                    Schedule) Order 1995

Commencement   : 16 June 1995
               iv

                                            PART 3
                       NATIONAL PARKS BOARD ACT 1996

                               (2020 REVISED EDITION)

21. Act 22 of 1996 — National Parks Act 1996

Bill           : 13/1996

First Reading  : 2 May 1996

Second and Third Readings : 21 May 1996

Commencement   : 1 July 1996

22. 1997 Revised Edition — National Parks Act (Chapter 198A)

Operation      : 30 May 1997

23. G.N. No. S 669/2001 — National Parks Act (Amendment of Fifth
                                    Schedule) Order 2001

Commencement   : 1 January 2002

24. Act 5 of 2002 — Statutory Corporations (Capital Contribution) Act 2002
     (Amendments made by section 3 read with item (28) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 7/2002

First Reading  : 3 May 2002

Second and Third Readings : 24 May 2002

Commencement   : 15 July 2002 (section 3 read with
                     item (28) of the Schedule)

25. G.N. No. S 534/2003 — National Parks Act (Amendment of Fifth
                                    Schedule) Order 2003

Commencement   : 26 November 2003

26. Act 45 of 2004 — Trustees (Amendment) Act 2004
     (Amendments made by section 25(4) read with item (35) of the Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill           : 43/2004

First Reading  : 21 September 2004

Second and Third Readings : 19 October 2004

Commencement   : 15 December 2004 (section 25(4) read
                     with item (35) of the Schedule)
                      v

27. Act 4 of 2005 — Parks and Trees Act 2005
     (Amendments made by section 65 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 55/2004

First Reading         : 19 October 2004

Second and Third Readings : 25 January 2005

Commencement          : 1 August 2005 (section 65)

Note: The National Parks Act was renamed as the National Parks Board Act
        by this Act.

28. Act 21 of 2008 — Mental Health (Care and Treatment) Act 2008
     (Amendments made by section 33 read with item 1(34) of the
     Second Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 11/2008

First Reading         : 21 July 2008

Second and Third Readings : 15 September 2008

Commencement          : 1 March 2010 (section 33 read with
                            item 1(34) of the Second Schedule)

29. 2012 Revised Edition — National Parks Board Act (Chapter 198A)

Operation             : 31 July 2012

30. Act 9 of 2017 — Parks and Trees (Amendment) Act 2017
     (Amendments made by section 24 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 4/2017

First Reading         : 9 January 2017

Second and Third Readings : 7 February 2017

Commencement          : 20 November 2017 (section 24)

31. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 85 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2017

First Reading         : 6 November 2017

Second Reading        : 8 January 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 8 January 2018

Third Reading         : 8 January 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 85)
                                     vi

32. Act 10 of 2019 — National Parks Board (Amendment) Act 2019

       Bill                          : 4/2019

       First Reading                 : 15 January 2019

       Second and Third Readings : 12 February 2019

       Commencement                  : 29 March 2019 (sections 2(d), 5 and 6)
                                           1 April 2019 (except sections 2(d), 5,
                                           6 and 12(c) and (d))

                                  Abbreviations

C.P.                  Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.              Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S            Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.                  Legislative Assembly

L.N.                  Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

                      Legislation)

M. Act                Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.                 Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.          Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
         COMPARATIVE TABLE
NATIONAL PARKS BOARD ACT 1996

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2012 Ed.
—                          12 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
12                         13
13                         14
14                         15
15                         15A
22                         22—(1)
[Omitted as spent]
27                            (2)
28                         26A
29                         26B
30                         27
31                         28
—                          29
—                          30 [Repealed by Act 4 of 2005]
—                          31 [Repealed by Act 4 of 2005]
—                          32 [Repealed by Act 4 of 2005]
—                          33 [Repealed by Act 4 of 2005]
—                          34 [Repealed by Act 4 of 2005]
—                          35 [Repealed by Act 4 of 2005]
—                          36 [Repealed by Act 4 of 2005]
—                          37 [Repealed by Act 4 of 2005]
—                          38 [Repealed by Act 4 of 2005]
32                         39 [Repealed by Act 4 of 2005]
[Omitted as spent]         40
                           41—(1)

                               31.12.2021
                 2020 Ed.  ii
[Omitted as spent]
—                                             2012 Ed.
                                (2)
THIRD SCHEDULE              THIRD SCHEDULE [Repealed by
                            Act 5 of 2018]
                            FOURTH SCHEDULE
