THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
              FINANCE COMPANIES ACT 1967

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
                                                          2020 Ed.

Finance Companies Act 1967

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                        PART 2

                   LICENSING OF FINANCE COMPANIES

 3. Licensing of finance companies
 4. Use of words “finance company”
 5. Examination of persons suspected of transacting financing

         business
 6. Application for licence
 7. Minimum capital requirements
 7A. Capital ratio
 8. Restriction on opening of branches of finance company
 9. Mergers, etc., of finance company
10. Control of takeovers of finance companies incorporated in

         Singapore
11. Arrangements affecting control of finance company

         incorporated in Singapore
12. Control of substantial shareholding in finance companies

         incorporated in Singapore
13. Power of Authority to require finance company that is

         incorporated in Singapore to obtain information as to beneficial
         interests in shares of finance company
14. Amendment of constitution of finance company
15. Revocation of licence
16. Effect of revocation of licence
17. Publication of list of finance companies

                                          1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                      2

          PART 3

          RESERVE FUNDS, DIVIDENDS, BALANCE SHEETS
                              AND INFORMATION

Section   Maintenance of reserve fund by finance companies
          Maintenance of adequate provision for bad and doubtful debts
   18.    Restriction on payment of dividends by finance companies
   18A.   Publication and exhibition of audited balance sheet
   19.    Information and statistics to be provided by finance companies
   20.    Monthly statements of advances, loans and credit facilities
   21.    Disclosure of interest by directors
   21A.
   21B.

                                        PART 4

                          REGULATION OF BUSINESS

22. Acknowledgment of indebtedness
23. Dealings by finance companies and credit facilities and limits
24. Dealing by finance company in its own shares, etc.
25. Restrictions on trade by finance companies
26. Restrictions on investments by finance companies
27. Restrictions on holding immovable property by finance

         companies
28. Control over finance companies in the acquisition of shares in

         companies
29. Power of Authority to secure compliance with sections 23, 26,

         27 and 31
30. Notices to finance companies
31. Orders by Authority

                                        PART 5
                          MINIMUM LIQUID ASSETS
32. Minimum holdings of liquid assets by finance companies

          PART 6

          INSPECTION AND CONTROL OF FINANCE COMPANIES

33.       Inspection and investigation of finance companies and
          production of books, etc.
34.       Information of insolvency, etc.
34A.      Interpretation of sections 34A to 39

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
3        Finance Companies Act 1967                                      2020 Ed.

Section  Action by Authority if finance company unable to meet
   35.   obligations, etc.
         Effect of assumption of control under section 35
   36.   Duration of control
   37.   Responsibilities of officers, member, etc., of finance company
   38.   Remuneration and expenses of Authority and others in certain
   39.   cases

                                          PART 6A

                     VOLUNTARY TRANSFER OF BUSINESS

   39A. Interpretation of this Part
   39B. Voluntary transfer of business
   39C. Approval of transfer

                                            PART 7
SUBMISSION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND DUTIES OF AUDITORS

   40. Directors to submit copy of financial statements
   41. Appointment and duties of auditors

                                           PART 8

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   42. Authority to administer Act
   43. Prohibition against transacting of financing business on public

            holidays
   44. Priority of specified liabilities
   44A. Priority of specified liabilities inter se
   45. [Repealed]
   46. Memorandum and articles of association of finance company
   47. Disqualification or removal of director or executive officer
   48. Penalty for offences not otherwise provided for
   48A. Composition of offences
   48B. Recovery of fees, expenses, etc.
   49. Offences by directors or managers
   50. Falsification of books, documents, etc.
   51. Holding out as finance company
   52. Consent of Public Prosecutor
   52A. Jurisdiction of District Court
   53. Exemptions

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                4

Section   Winding up provisions
          Redemption of securities held by finance company
   54.    Operation of Act not to affect Companies Act 1967
   55.    Regulations
   56.
   57.

An Act to license and control finance companies and for matters
  connected therewith.

                                                            [10 January 1968]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Finance Companies Act 1967.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “agreement” means an agreement whether formal or informal
         and whether express or implied;

      “auditor” means any person approved by the Authority as a
         finance company auditor for the purposes of this Act;

      “Authority” means the Monetary Authority of Singapore
         established under section 3 of the Monetary Authority of
         Singapore Act 1970;

      “capital funds”, in relation to a finance company, means the
         paid‑up capital and published reserves of that company,
         deduction having been made in respect of any debit balance
         appearing in the profit and loss account of the company;

      “chief executive”, in relation to a finance company, means any
         person, by whatever name described, who —

              (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
                   arrangement with, the finance company; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
5  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

   (b) is principally responsible for the management and
        conduct of the business of the finance company;

   “collective investment scheme” has the meaning given by
      section 2(1) of the Securities and Futures Act 2001;

   “company” means a company incorporated or registered under
      the Companies Act 1967 or pursuant to any corresponding
      previous written law;

   “credit facilities” means —

   (a) the granting by a finance company of advances, loans
        and other facilities by which a customer of the
        finance company has access to funds or financial
        guarantees; or

   (b) the incurring by a finance company of other liabilities
        on behalf of a customer;

   “deposit” means a loan of money at interest or repayable at a
      premium but does not include a loan to a company or other
      body corporate upon terms involving the issue of debentures
      or other securities;

   “depositor” means a person entitled, or prospectively entitled, to
      repayment of a deposit whether made by the person or not;

   “director” includes any person occupying the position of
      director of a finance company by whatever name called
      and includes a person in accordance with whose directions or
      instructions the directors of a finance company are
      accustomed to act and an alternate or substitute director;

   “executive officer”, in relation to a finance company, means any
      person, by whatever name described, who —

   (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
        arrangement with, the finance company; and

   (b) is concerned with or takes part in the management of
        the finance company on a day-to-day basis;

   “finance company” means any company licensed under this Act
      to carry on financing business, and all branches and offices in

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                6

          Singapore of such a company are deemed to be one finance
          company for the purposes of this Act;

“financing business” means the business of —

          (a) borrowing money from the public, by acceptance of
               deposits and issuing certificates or other documents
               acknowledging or evidencing indebtedness to the
               public and undertaking to repay the money on call or
               after an agreed maturity period; and

          (b) lending money to the public or to a company deemed
               to be related to the finance company by virtue of
               section 6 of the Companies Act 1967 (called in this
               Act the related company) on the basis that the public
               or the related company undertakes to repay the
               money, whether within an agreed period of time or
               not, or by instalments,

          and includes the business of financing hire-purchase
          transactions arising out of hire-purchase agreements, as
          defined in the Hire-Purchase Act 1969, where the money
          used, or to be used, for such business is borrowed from the
          public and such other business as the Authority may prescribe
          for the purposes of this Act;

“licence” means a licence granted under section 6;

“limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by
   section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

“officer”, in relation to a corporation, includes —

          (a) a director, secretary or employee of the corporation;

          (b) a receiver or manager of any part of the undertaking
               of the corporation appointed under a power contained
               in any instrument; and

          (c) the liquidator of the corporation appointed in a
              voluntary winding up;

“partner” and “manager”, in relation to a limited liability
   partnership, have the respective meanings given by
   section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
7  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

   “person” includes a corporation;

   “public company” means a company incorporated in Singapore
      other than a private company;

   “published reserves”, in relation to a finance company, means
      reserves which appear in the accounts of the finance company
      but does not include any reserves which are represented by
      the writing down of the value of assets or by provision for the
      depreciation of fixed assets or which are maintained for any
      specific purposes;

   “securities” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
      Securities and Futures Act 2001;

   “securities-based derivatives contract” has the meaning given by
      section 2(1) of the Securities and Futures Act 2001;

   “share”, in relation to a finance company, means a share in the
      share capital of the finance company and includes an interest
      in such a share;

   “Singapore Government securities” means any debt securities
      issued by the Government under any written law;

   “sub‑fund”, in relation to an umbrella VCC, has the meaning
      given by section 2(1) of the VCC Act;

                                                                               [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

   “umbrella VCC” and “VCC” have the meanings given by
      section 2(1) of the VCC Act;

                                                                               [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

   “unit” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Securities
      and Futures Act 2001;

                                                                                [10/2013; 4/2017; 15/2021]
                                                                               [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

   “VCC Act” means the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018.

                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                8

          PART 2

          LICENSING OF FINANCE COMPANIES

Licensing of finance companies

 3.—(1) No financing business may be transacted in Singapore
except by a public company that is in possession of a valid licence
granted by the Authority authorising it to conduct financing business
in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both.

Use of words “finance company”

 4.—(1) A person or body of persons, whether incorporated or not,
other than a finance company licensed under this Act must not,
without the consent of the Authority, use the words “finance
company” or any of its derivatives in any language, or any other
words indicating that it transacts financing business, in the name,
description or title under which that person or body of persons is
transacting business in Singapore or make or continue to make any
representations to that effect in any bill-head, letter-paper, notice,
advertisement or in any other manner.

 (2) Nothing in this section prohibits an association of finance
companies formed for the protection of common interests from using
the words “finance company” or any of its derivatives in any
language as part of its name or description of its activities.

Examination of persons suspected of transacting financing
business

 5.—(1) Whenever the Authority has reason to believe that a person
is conducting financing business without a licence, the Authority may
call for the books, accounts and records of that person in order to
ascertain whether or not that person has violated or is violating any
provisions of this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
9  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

 (2) Any person wilfully refusing to submit such books, accounts
and records shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (3) Upon the conviction of any person under subsection (2), the
court has power to order the production of any books, accounts and
records to the Authority.

 (4) Any person failing to comply with any order under
subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $500 for every day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

Application for licence

 6.—(1) Any public company proposing to conduct financing
business in Singapore must, before commencing any such business,
apply in writing to the Authority for a licence under this Act.

 (2) In considering any application by a public company for a
licence, the Authority may require to be satisfied as to —

       (a) the financial condition of the company;

       (b) the character of the management of the company;

       (c) the adequacy of the capital structure and earning prospects
            of the company;

       (d) the objects of the company as disclosed in its memorandum
            of association;

       (e) the convenience and needs of the community to be served;
            and

        (f) whether the public interest will be served by the granting of
            a licence.

 (3) The Authority may grant a licence with or without conditions,
or refuse to grant a licence.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                10

 (4) The Authority may at any time vary or revoke any existing
conditions of a licence or impose additional conditions.

 (5) Where a licence is granted subject to conditions, the finance
company must comply with those conditions and any finance
company that fails to comply with any of the conditions of its
licence shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $20,000 and, in the case of a continuing
offence, to a further fine of $2,000 for every day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (6) Any person who knowingly or recklessly provides any
document or information which is false or misleading in a material
particular in connection with an application for a licence falling
within subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (7) Every finance company must pay the annual licence fee
(including fees in respect of each of its branches) as the Authority
may determine by written notice and in such manner as the Authority
may determine.

 (8) Any applicant who is aggrieved by the refusal of the Authority
to grant a licence under subsection (3) may, within 30 days of the
decision of the Authority, appeal in writing to the Minister whose
decision is final and must be given effect to by the Authority.

Minimum capital requirements

 7.—(1) Subject to this Act, a company must not be granted or hold a
licence unless —

       (a) in the case of a finance company which holds a licence to
            carry on financing business on 18 January 1995 — its
            capital funds are, subject to this section, at least
            $50 million; or

       (b) in the case of a finance company which is granted a licence
            to carry on financing business after 18 January 1995 — its
            issued and paid-up capital is at least $50 million and its
            capital funds are not less than that amount.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
11  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

 (2) Despite subsection (1)(a), the Authority may, at any time, after
8 years from 18 January 1995, by order require the issued and paid‑up
capital of a finance company to which that subsection applies to be at
least $50 million within the time specified in that order.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), a finance company to which
subsection (1)(a) applies which has capital funds of less than
$50 million on 18 January 1995 is exempt from the requirement of
that provision for 8 years from 18 January 1995 and must not during
that period allow its capital funds to be less than its capital funds on
that date.

 (4) If 20% or more of the issued and paid-up capital of a finance
company is acquired by one or more persons who, alone or acting
together with any associate or associates, by virtue of such
acquisition becomes a substantial shareholder of the finance
company on or after 18 January 1995, the finance company —

    (a) must have at least $50 million in issued and paid‑up
         capital; and

    (b) ceases to be eligible for the exemption under
         subsection (3),

unless all the new substantial shareholders are finance companies
each with capital funds of at least $50 million at the time of the
acquisition.

 (5) A finance company must not reduce its paid-up capital during
the currency of its licence without the approval of the Authority.

 (6) The Authority may restrict or suspend the operations of a
finance company which fails to comply with subsection (2), (3), (4)
or (5).

 (7) In this section, “substantial shareholder” has the meaning given
by section 81 of the Companies Act 1967.

Capital ratio

 7A.—(1) The Authority may require every finance company to
maintain capital funds in Singapore in proportion to its total assets or
to every category of assets at such ratio or ratios as may from time to
time be determined by the Authority by written notice.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                12

 (2) A finance company must maintain a capital adequacy ratio of at
least 12% or such other percentage as may be determined by the
Authority from time to time, as calculated in accordance with such
form, content and manner as may be determined by the Authority by
written notice.

 (3) The Authority may suspend or restrict the operations of a
finance company which fails to comply with subsection (2) or any
requirement of the Authority under subsection (1).

Restriction on opening of branches of finance company

 8.—(1) A finance company must not open any new branch, agency
or office, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, without submitting a
written application to the Authority.

 (2) In considering the application, the Authority may require to be
satisfied by an inspection under section 33 or otherwise, as to —

       (a) the financial condition of the company;

       (b) the general character of the management of the company;

       (c) the adequacy of the capital structure and earning prospects
            of the company;

       (d) the convenience and needs of the community to be served;
            and

       (e) whether the public interest will be served by the opening or
            (as the case may be) change of location of the place of
            business.

 (3) Upon being so satisfied as to the matters referred to in
subsection (2), the Authority may —

       (a) grant the application; or

       (b) without giving any reason, refuse to grant the application,

and the decision of the Authority is final.

 (4) Any finance company which fails to comply with subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000 for every day during which the default
continues.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
13  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

Mergers, etc., of finance company

 9.—(1) A finance company carrying on business in Singapore must
not be merged or consolidated with or acquire a majority interest in
any other finance company without the prior approval of the
Authority.

 (2) In considering such an application, the Authority has power to
call for any information that it may require.

(3) The Authority may approve or refuse the application.

Control of takeovers of finance companies incorporated in
Singapore

 10.—(1) This section and sections 11 and 12 apply to and in relation
to all natural persons whether resident in Singapore or not and
whether citizens of Singapore or not, and to all bodies corporate or
unincorporate, whether incorporated or carrying on business in
Singapore or not.

 (2) Without affecting section 9, a person must not enter into an
agreement to acquire shares of a finance company that is incorporated
in Singapore by virtue of which the person would, if the agreement is
carried out, obtain effective control of that finance company without
first notifying the Authority of the person’s intention to enter into the
agreement and obtaining the approval of the Authority to the person
entering into the agreement.

 (3) For the purposes of this section —

       (a) a person is to be regarded as entering into an agreement by
            virtue of which the person would obtain effective control
            of a finance company if the person alone or acting together
            with any associate or associates of that person would be in
            a position to control at least 20% of the voting power in the
            finance company or would hold interests in at least 20% of
            the issued shares of the finance company;

       (b) a reference to an agreement by which a person would
            obtain effective control of a finance company that is
            incorporated in Singapore includes a reference to an
            agreement by which the person would acquire any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                14

          interest in shares in the finance company where, upon the
          acquisition of those interests and of any other interests in
          other shares of the finance company that the person has
          offered to acquire, the person would have effective control
          of the finance company;

          (c) a reference to a person offering to acquire interests in
              shares includes —

          (i) a reference to a person making or publishing a
              statement, however expressed, that expressly or
              impliedly invites a holder of interests in shares to
              offer to dispose of interests in shares; and

          (ii) a reference to a person taking part in or proposing to
               take part in negotiations with a view to the
               acquisition of shares;

(d) a person holds an interest in a share if the person has any
     legal or equitable interest in that share and, without
     limiting the generality of the foregoing, an interest in
     shares has the meaning given to that expression in
     section 7(6) to (10) of the Companies Act 1967;

          (e) a reference to the voting power in a finance company is a
              reference to the total number of votes that might be cast in
              the general meeting of the finance company;

          (f) the following persons are associates of a person:

          (i) the person’s spouse or a parent or remoter lineal
              ancestor, son, daughter or remoter issue, brother or
              sister of the person;

          (ii) any partner of the person;

          (iii) any corporation of which the person is an officer;

          (iv) where the person is a corporation, any officer of the
               corporation;

          (v) any employee or employer of the person;

          (vi) any officer of any corporation of which the person is
               an officer;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
15  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

    (vii) any employee of a natural person of whom the
          person is an employee;

    (viii) any corporation whose directors are accustomed or
           under an obligation, whether formal or informal, to
           act in accordance with the directions, instructions or
           wishes of the person or, where the person is a
           corporation, of the directors of the person;

    (ix) any corporation in accordance with the directions,
         instructions or wishes of which, or of the directors of
         which, the person is accustomed or under an
         obligation, whether formal or informal, to act;

    (x) any corporation in which the person who is in a
         position to control at least 20% of the voting power
         in the corporation; and

    (xi) where the person is a corporation, a person who is in
         a position to control at least 20% of the voting power
         in the corporation.

 (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both.

Arrangements affecting control of finance company
incorporated in Singapore

 11.—(1) A person must not enter into any arrangement in relation
to any finance company that is incorporated in Singapore by virtue of
which the person would, if the arrangement is carried out, obtain
control of the finance company without first notifying the Authority
of the person’s intention to enter into the arrangement and obtaining
the approval of the Authority to the person entering into the
arrangement.

 (2) For the purposes of this section —

       (a) a person is to be regarded as entering into an arrangement
            by virtue of which the person would obtain control of a
            finance company if the person alone or acting together with

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                16

          an associate or associates would be in a position to
          determine the policy of the finance company;

(b) the reference to entering into any arrangement is a
     reference to any formal or informal scheme, arrangement
     or understanding, whether expressly or by implication and,
     in particular, includes a reference —

          (i) creating a trust whether express or implied; and

          (ii) entering into a transaction or agreement,

(b) and references to an arrangement are to be construed
     accordingly; and

          (c) the reference to associates of a person has the same
              reference as under section 10.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both.

Control of substantial shareholding in finance companies
incorporated in Singapore

 12.—(1) A person must not enter into any agreement to acquire
shares by virtue of which the person would, if the agreement is carried
out, acquire a substantial shareholding in a finance company that is
incorporated in Singapore without first notifying the Authority of the
person’s intention to enter into the agreement and obtaining the
approval of the Authority to the person entering into the agreement.

 (2) For the purposes of this section —

       (a) a reference to an agreement by which a person would
            acquire a substantial shareholding in a finance company
            includes a reference to an agreement by virtue of which the
            person would acquire any interests in shares in the finance
            company where, upon the acquisition by the person of
            those interests or of those interests and of any interest in
            other shares in the finance company, being interests that
            the person has offered to acquire, the person would acquire
            a substantial shareholding in the finance company;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
17  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

    (b) a reference to a person offering to acquire interests in
         shares and to a person having an interest in shares is to be
         construed in the same way as under section 10; and

    (c) a substantial shareholding has the meaning given by
        section 81 of the Companies Act 1967.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Power of Authority to require finance company that is
incorporated in Singapore to obtain information as to
beneficial interests in shares of finance company

 13.—(1) The Authority may by written notice direct a finance
company that is incorporated in Singapore to obtain from any
shareholder of the finance company and to transmit to the Authority
information —

       (a) as to whether that shareholder holds any voting shares in
            the finance company as beneficial owner or as trustee; and

       (b) if that shareholder holds them as trustee, to indicate, as far
            as it can, the person for whom that shareholder holds them
            (either by name or by other particulars sufficient to enable
            those persons to be identified) and the nature of their
            interest,

and the finance company must comply with that direction within the
time specified in the notice.

 (2) In this section, “voting shares” has the meaning given by the
Companies Act 1967.

 (3) A finance company which fails to comply with a direction under
this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

Amendment of constitution of finance company

 14.—(1) Every finance company that intends to alter its
memorandum of association or articles of association must, before

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                18

proposing any resolution in this regard, provide to the Authority for
its approval particulars in writing (verified by a statutory declaration
made by the secretary of the finance company) of the proposed
alteration.

(2) The Authority may thereupon —

(a) approve the proposed alteration without modification;

(b) approve the proposed alteration with modification; or

          (c) refuse to approve the proposed alteration.

 (3) If the Authority approves the proposed alteration with
modification, the finance company must adopt the proposed
alteration as so modified or not proceed with the proposed alteration.

 (4) If the Authority refuses to approve the proposed alteration it
may request the finance company to withdraw the proposed alteration
and the finance company must comply with the Authority’s request.

 (5) Any finance company which fails to comply with the
requirements of subsection (1) or with any request by the
Authority made under subsection (4) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000 for
every day during which the default continues after conviction.

Revocation of licence

 15.—(1) The Authority —

       (a) must, by order, revoke the licence of a finance company if
            the company ceases to carry on the business for which it
            has been licensed in Singapore or goes into liquidation or is
            wound up or otherwise dissolved;

       (b) may, by order, revoke the licence of a finance company if,
            in its opinion, the finance company —

               (i) has provided information or documents to the
                   Authority in connection with its application for a
                   licence which is or are false or misleading in a
                   material particular;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
19  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

    (ii) is carrying on its business in a manner likely to be
         detrimental to the interests of its depositors;

    (iii) has insufficient assets to cover its liabilities to its
          depositors;

    (iv) carries on business while its paid-up capital
         (unimpaired by losses or otherwise) is less than
         $500,000; or

    (v) is contravening or has contravened the provisions of
         this Act;

    (vi) is contravening or has contravened any provision of
         the Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’ Protection
         Schemes Act 2011 or any Rules issued by the deposit
         insurance and policy owners’ protection fund agency
         under the Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’
         Protection Schemes Act 2011; and

    (c) may, by order, revoke the licence of a finance company —

    (i) if the finance company or any of its directors or
        officers holding a managerial or executive position
        in that finance company has been convicted of any
        offence under this Act; or

              (ii) if, upon the Authority exercising any power under
                   section 35(2) or the Minister exercising any power
                   under Division 2, 4, 5 or 6 of Part 8 of the Financial
                   Services and Markets Act 2022 in relation to the
                   finance company, the Authority considers that it is in
                   the public interest to revoke the licence.

                                                                                                [10/2013; 31/2017]

                                                                               [Act 18 of 2022 wef 10/05/2024]

 (2) Before revoking any licence, the Authority must give the
finance company written notice of its intention to do so, specifying a
date, at least 21 days after the date of the notice, upon which the
revocation will take effect and calling upon the finance company to
show cause to the Authority why the licence should not be revoked.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                20

 (3) Where the Authority has revoked a licence under subsection (1),
the Authority must forthwith inform the finance company by written
notice of the revocation.

Effect of revocation of licence

 16.—(1) Where an order of revocation becomes effective under
section 15 —

       (a) notice of the revocation must be published in the Gazette;
            and

       (b) the finance company must, from the date of the notice,
            cease to transact any financing business in Singapore
            except as may be approved by the Authority for the
            purpose of winding up its financing business.

 (2) Subsection (1)(b) does not affect the enforcement by any person
of any right or claim against the finance company or by the finance
company of any right or claim against any person.

Publication of list of finance companies

 17.—(1) The Authority must cause to be published in the Gazette in
the month of April in each year a list of all finance companies to
which licences have been issued under this Act.

 (2) If any licence is issued or revoked during the interval between
the publication of 2 such lists, notice thereof must also be caused to be
published in the Gazette.

                                    PART 3
      RESERVE FUNDS, DIVIDENDS, BALANCE SHEETS

                           AND INFORMATION
Maintenance of reserve fund by finance companies

 18.—(1) Every finance company must —
       (a) maintain a reserve fund;
       (b) transfer to that reserve fund out of the net profits of each
            year, after due provision has been made for taxation —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
21  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

    (i) so long as the amount of the reserve fund is less than
        50% of the paid‑up capital, a sum of at least 50% of
        those net profits;

    (ii) so long as the amount of the reserve fund is at least
         50% but less than 100% of the paid‑up capital, a sum
         of at least 25% of those net profits; and

    (iii) so long as the amount of the reserve fund is 100% or
          more of the paid‑up capital, a sum of at least 5% of
          those net profits.

 (2) Any finance company which fails to comply with subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine of $2,000 for every day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

Maintenance of adequate provision for bad and doubtful debts

 18A. Every finance company must make provision for bad and
doubtful debts and, before any profit or loss is declared, ensure that
the provision is adequate.

Restriction on payment of dividends by finance companies

 19. A finance company must not pay any dividend on its shares
until all its capitalised expenditure (including preliminary expenses,
organisation expenses, share selling commission, brokerage, amount
of losses incurred and any item of expenditure not represented by
tangible assets) has been completely written off.

Publication and exhibition of audited balance sheet

 20.—(1) Every finance company must exhibit in a conspicuous
position in each of its offices and branches in Singapore —

       (a) a copy of its latest audited annual balance sheet and profit
            and loss account, together with any notes thereon, and a
            copy of the report of the auditors; and

       (b) the full and correct names of all persons who are currently
            directors of the finance company.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                22

 (2) Every finance company must, within 6 months after the close of
each financial year or within such period as the Authority may
approve, publish in at least 4 local daily newspapers, one each
published in the Malay, Chinese, Tamil and English languages, a copy
of its latest audited annual balance sheet and profit and loss account,
containing at least the information that the Authority may require by
written notice.

 (3) The Authority may by written notice require a finance company
to publish, in addition to its balance sheet and profit and loss account
under subsection (2), any additional information relating to the
accounts of that finance company for any financial year that the
Authority thinks fit.

 (4) A copy of the documents referred to in subsections (1) and (2)
must be sent to the Authority by the finance company, prior to its first
publication in any newspaper under those subsections, together with a
copy of the directors’ report.

 (5) The annual balance sheet and profit and loss account of the
finance company mentioned in subsections (1) and (2) and the half
year interim profit and loss account of the finance company must be
in such form as the Authority may approve.

 (6) The Authority may require any finance company to submit such
further or additional information as it may consider necessary either
by way of explanation, amplification or otherwise with regard to the
balance sheet and profit and loss account sent by that finance
company under subsection (4) and that information must be
submitted within such period and in such manner as the Authority
may require.

 (7) Any finance company which fails to comply with any of the
provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 and, in the case of
a continuing offence, to a further fine of $1,000 for every day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

Information and statistics to be provided by finance companies

 21.—(1) Every finance company must provide to the Authority at
such time and in such manner as the Authority may prescribe, all such

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
23  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

information and data as the Authority may reasonably require for the
proper discharge of the Authority’s functions under the provisions of
this Act.

 (2) Nothing in this Act authorises the Authority to enquire
specifically into the affairs of an individual depositor of a finance
company and any information relating to the affairs of that individual
depositor obtained by the Authority in the course of an inspection or
investigation made under this Act is to be secret between the
Authority and that finance company.

 (3) Every finance company which fails or neglects to provide any
information required by the Authority under subsection (1) within the
time specified by the Authority shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 for every day
during which the default continues after conviction.

Monthly statements of advances, loans and credit facilities

 21A.—(1) Every finance company must send to the Authority, not
later than 15 days after the last day of each month, a statement in the
form determined by the Authority showing the particulars of all
advances, loans and credit facilities granted by the finance company
as at the end of that month to —

       (a) any of the directors of the finance company;

       (b) any firm or limited liability partnership in which the
            finance company or any of its directors is a partner,
            manager or agent;

       (c) any individual or firm or limited liability partnership of
            whom or of which any of the directors of the finance
            company is a guarantor;

       (d) any corporation that is related to the finance company;

       (e) any of the finance company’s officers, employees or other
            persons receiving remuneration from the finance company
            (other than persons receiving remuneration in respect of
            their professional services);

        (f) any private or public company or VCC in which the
            finance company or any of its directors, officers,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                24

            employees or other persons who receive remuneration
            from the finance company has an interest as a director,
            manager, agent or guarantor; or

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

       (g) any individual in whom, and any firm or limited liability
            partnership or company or VCC in which, any of the
            directors of the finance company has, directly or indirectly,
            any interest that is required to be declared under
            section 21B, other than those advances, loans and credit
            facilities, the particulars of which have been supplied
            under paragraphs (a) to (f).

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

 (2) Where it appears to the Authority, on examination of the
particulars supplied by a finance company under subsection (1), that
any advance, loan or credit facility has been or may be granted to the
detriment of the interests of the depositors of the finance company,
the Authority may as it thinks fit by written notice —

(a) prohibit that finance company from granting any further
     advance, loan or credit facility to the borrowers which in
     the Authority’s opinion may be detrimental to the interest
     of the depositors;

(b) impose restrictions on that finance company in relation to
     the grant of any advance, loan or credit facility; or

          (c) direct that finance company to secure repayment of any
              advance, loan or credit facility.

(3) In this section —

(a) “director” includes the wife, husband, mother, father, son
     or daughter of a director; and

(b) whether a corporation is related to a finance company is to
     be construed in accordance with section 6 of the
     Companies Act 1967.

Disclosure of interest by directors

 21B.—(1) Subject to this section, every director of a finance
company who is in any way, directly or indirectly, interested in an

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
25  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

advance, loan or credit facility or proposed advance, loan or credit
facility from that finance company must, as soon as practicable,
declare the nature of his or her interest to the board of directors of that
finance company and the secretary of the company must cause the
declaration to be circulated forthwith to all the directors.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply in any case where the interest of
the director of a finance company consists only of being a member or
creditor of a company which is interested in an advance, loan or credit
facility or proposed advance, loan or credit facility from that finance
company if the interest of the director may properly be regarded as
not being a material interest.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), a general notice given to the
board of directors of a finance company by a director to the effect that
he or she is an officer or member of a specified company or a member
of a specified firm or partner or manager or an officer or member of a
specified VCC, and he or she is to be regarded as having an interest in
any advance, loan or credit facility which may, after the date of the
notice, be made to that company, firm, limited liability partnership or
VCC is deemed to be a sufficient declaration of interest in relation to
any advance, loan or credit facility so made if —

    (a) it specifies the nature and extent of his or her interest in the
         particular company, firm, limited liability partnership or
         VCC;

                                                                              [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

    (b) his or her interest is not different in nature or greater in
         extent than the nature and extent so specified in the notice
         at the time any advance, loan or credit facility is made; and

       (c) it is given at a meeting of the directors or the director takes
            reasonable steps to ensure that it is brought up and read at
            the next meeting of the directors after it is given.

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

 (4) Every director of a finance company who holds any office or
possesses any property whereby, directly or indirectly, duties or
interests might be created in conflict with his or her duties or interests
as director must declare at a meeting of the directors of that finance
company the fact and the nature, character and extent of such conflict.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                26

 (5) The declaration referred to in subsection (4) must be made at the
first meeting of the directors held —

(a) after he or she becomes a director of the finance company;
     or

(b) if already a director, after he or she commences to hold the
     office or to possess the property.

 (6) The secretary of a finance company must cause to be brought up
and read any declaration made under subsection (1) or (4) at the next
meeting of the directors of that finance company after it is made, and
must record any declaration so made in the minutes of the meeting at
which it was made or at which it was brought up and read.

 (7) Any director who contravenes subsection (1) or (4) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both.

                                    PART 4

                      REGULATION OF BUSINESS

Acknowledgment of indebtedness

 22. Where a finance company has accepted money from any person
as a deposit, the company must within 2 months after the acceptance
of the money issue to that person a document which acknowledges or
evidences or constitutes an acknowledgment of the indebtedness of
the company in respect of that deposit.

Dealings by finance companies and credit facilities and limits

 23.—(1) A finance company must not —

       (a) accept any deposit which is repayable on demand by
            cheque, draft or order drawn by a depositor on the finance
            company;

       (b) deal in any foreign currency, gold or any other precious
            metal;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
27  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

    (c) acquire securities, securities-based derivatives contracts or
        units in a collective investment scheme which are
        denominated in any foreign currency;

    (d) grant or permit to be outstanding to any one person or to
         any group of persons under the control or influence of any
         one person, any credit facilities if the aggregate amount of
         such credit facilities exceeds 25% of its capital funds or
         such other percentage not exceeding 100% of its capital
         funds as the Authority may approve;

    (e) grant substantial loans which in the aggregate exceed 50%
        of its total credit facilities or such other percentage as the
        Authority may from time to time determine; or

    (f) grant unsecured advances, unsecured loans or unsecured
        credit facilities —

    (i) to any person or body of persons, whether
        incorporated or not, which in the aggregate and
        outstanding at any one time exceeds $5,000; and

              (ii) which in the aggregate and outstanding at any one
                   time exceeds 10% of the capital funds of the finance
                   company.

                                                                                                             [4/2017]

 (2) Despite the provisions of subsection (1)(b) and (c), a finance
company with capital funds of at least $100 million may apply to the
Authority for exemption from those provisions and the Authority
may approve the application subject to —

    (a) the condition that the aggregate amount of foreign
         currency exposure of the finance company must not at
         any time exceed 10% of its capital funds; and

    (b) any other condition which the Authority may think fit to
         impose.

(3) Subsection (1)(d) and (e) does not apply to —

    (a) transactions with the Government;

    (b) transactions with banks; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                28

          (c) any other type of transaction which the Authority may
              from time to time approve.

(4) Subsection (1)(f) does not apply to the purchase of —

(a) any Singapore Government securities; or

       (b) any bonds issued by such statutory corporation as the
            Authority may, by written notification, determine.

                                                                                                           [15/2021]

 (5) All the directors of a finance company are liable jointly and
severally to indemnify a finance company against any loss arising
from the making of any unsecured advance, loan or credit facility
to —

(a) any of its directors, whether those credit facilities are
     obtained by its directors jointly or severally;

(b) a firm or limited liability partnership in which that finance
     company or any of its directors has an interest as a partner,
     manager or agent;

          (c) any individual of whom, or firm or limited liability
              partnership of which, any of that finance company’s
              directors is a guarantor;

(d) a company in which any of that finance company’s
     directors, whether legally or beneficially, owns more
     than 50% of the issued capital or in which any of that
     finance company’s directors controls the composition of
     the board of directors, but excluding any public company
     the securities of which are listed on the Singapore
     Exchange Securities Trading Limited or any other
     approved exchange which the Authority may approve
     under the Securities and Futures Act 2001, and the
     subsidiaries of such public company; or

          (e) a corporation that is deemed to be related to the finance
              company as described in section 6 of the Companies
              Act 1967.

                                                                                                            [4/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
29  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

(6) In this section —

    (a) “aggregate amount of foreign currency exposure” means
         the aggregate value of investments in securities, securities-
         based derivatives contracts or units in a collective
         investment scheme, denominated in foreign currencies
         which are listed on exchanges recognised by the Authority
         and holdings of foreign currencies;

    (b) the reference to “director” in subsection (5) includes the
         wife, husband, father, mother, son or daughter of a director;

    (c) “substantial loan” means any credit facility granted by a
        finance company to a single person or to any group of
        persons under the control or influence of a single person
        which in the aggregate exceeds 15% of the finance
        company’s capital funds;

       (d) “unsecured advance”, “unsecured loan” or “unsecured
            credit facility” means any advance, loan or credit facility
            given without security, or in respect of any advance, loan
            or credit facility given with security, any part thereof which
            at any time exceeds the market value of the assets
            constituting that security, or where the Authority is
            satisfied that there is no established market value, on the
            basis of a valuation approved by it.

                                                                                                             [4/2017]

 (7) Any finance company which contravenes any of the provisions
of this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000.

Dealing by finance company in its own shares, etc.

 24.—(1) Except as is otherwise expressly provided by this Act, a
finance company must not give, directly or indirectly and whether by
means of a loan guarantee or the provision of security or otherwise,
any financial assistance for the purpose of or in connection with a
purchase or subscription made or to be made by any person of, or for,
any shares in the finance company or, where such company is a
subsidiary, in its holding company, or in any way purchase, deal in or
lend money on its own shares.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                30

(2) Nothing in subsection (1) prohibits —

(a) the provision by a finance company, in accordance with
     any scheme for the time being in force, of money to
     purchase or subscribe for fully‑paid shares in the finance
     company or its holding company, being a purchase or
     subscription by trustees of or for shares to be held by or for
     the benefit of employees of the company, including any
     director holding a salaried employment or office in the
     company; or

(b) the giving of financial assistance by a finance company to
     persons, other than directors, bona fide in the employment
     of that company or of a subsidiary of that company with a
     view to enabling those persons to purchase fully‑paid
     shares in the finance company to be held by themselves by
     way of beneficial ownership.

 (3) If there is any contravention of this section, the finance
company and every officer of that company who is in default shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months.

 (4) Nothing in this section operates to prevent the finance company
from recovering the amount of any loan made in contravention of this
section or any amount for which it becomes liable on account of any
financial assistance given in contravention of this section.

Restrictions on trade by finance companies

 25.—(1) A finance company must not engage, whether on its own
account or on a commission basis, and whether alone or with others,
in the wholesale or retail trade, including the import or export trade,
except for the purpose of carrying on its financing business.

 (2) Except as is otherwise provided in this Act, a finance company
must not carry on any kind of business other than financing business.

Restrictions on investments by finance companies

 26.—(1) A finance company must not acquire or hold any part of
the share capital of, or otherwise have a direct interest in, any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
31  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

financial, commercial, agricultural, industrial or other undertaking
exceeding in aggregate 25% of the capital funds of that finance
company except such shareholding as the finance company may
acquire in the course of realising debts due to it, which shareholding
must, however, be disposed of at the earliest suitable moment.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), the percentage holding or interest
mentioned in that subsection may upon the application of a finance
company to the Authority, and with the consent of the Authority, be
increased to at most 50% of the capital funds of that finance company.

Restrictions on holding immovable property by finance
companies

 27.—(1) A finance company must not purchase or acquire any
immovable property, or any right, title or interest therein exceeding in
the aggregate at any one time 25% of the finance company’s capital
funds, except as may be reasonably necessary for the purpose of
conducting its business or of housing or providing amenities for its
staff.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not prevent a finance company —

       (a) from letting part of any building which is used for the
            purpose of conducting its business; or

       (b) from securing a debt on any immovable property and in the
            event of default in payment of the debt, from holding that
            immovable property for realisation by sale or auction at the
            earliest suitable moment.

 (3) This section does not apply to such property as may from time to
time be approved by the Authority.

 (4) The Registrar of Titles in issuing any certificate of title or
registering any assurance in the Land Titles Registry or any purchaser
is exonerated from enquiring as to any matter or fact relating to the
title of a finance company to, or to the power of a finance company in
dealing with, any immovable property, or any right, title and interest
therein, which has been purchased or acquired in contravention of the
prohibition contained in this section and is protected from the effect
of notice of any such matter or fact.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                32

Control over finance companies in the acquisition of shares in
companies

 28.—(1) A finance company must not enter into an agreement to
acquire the share capital of any company by virtue of which the
finance company would, if the agreement is carried out, acquire or
hold, directly or indirectly, an interest of 20% or more of the share
capital of that company (or in the case of an umbrella VCC, either
20% or more of the share capital in the umbrella VCC that is not in
respect of any of its sub‑funds, or 20% or more of the share capital in
the umbrella VCC in respect of any one of its sub‑funds), without first
notifying the Authority of its intention to enter into the agreement and
obtaining the approval of the Authority to its entering into the
agreement.

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

 (2) The Authority may approve the entering into the agreement
with or without conditions or may disapprove it without giving any
reasons.

 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply to an agreement by virtue of
which the finance company would acquire an interest of 20% or more
of the share capital in a company (or in the case of an umbrella VCC,
either 20% or more of the share capital in the umbrella VCC that is
not in respect of any of its sub‑funds, or 20% or more of the share
capital in the umbrella VCC in respect of any one of its sub‑funds) by
way of enforcement of security to satisfy debts due to it by the
company if, upon making the acquisition, the finance company
obtains the approval of the Authority to retain the shareholdings as an
investment.

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

 (4) If the Authority does not grant approval under subsection (3),
the finance company must dispose of the shareholdings at the earliest
opportunity.

 (5) In this section, “company” means a company whether
incorporated in Singapore or elsewhere, and includes a VCC.

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

 (6) A finance company which contravenes subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
33  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

Power of Authority to secure compliance with sections 23, 26,
27 and 31

 29.—(1) Any finance company, if at any time called upon in writing
by the Authority to do so, must satisfy the Authority, by producing
such evidence or information as the Authority may require, that the
finance company is not in contravention of any of the provisions of
section 23, 26, 27 or 31.

 (2) For the purpose of securing compliance with the sections
mentioned in subsection (1), the Authority may from time to time by
written notice require any finance company to aggregate its assets,
liabilities or profits (as the case may be) with the assets, liabilities or
profits of all or any of the finance company’s related companies, as
described in section 6 of the Companies Act 1967, and the finance
company must comply with that requirement within the time
specified in the notice.

 (3) A finance company which fails to comply with any requirement
of the Authority under this section shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 for every
day during which the default continues after conviction.

Notices to finance companies

 30.—(1) The Authority may, if it appears to the Authority to be
necessary or expedient in the public interest or the interest of the
financial system, by written notice to finance companies give
directions or impose requirements on or relating to the activities or
operations of and standards to be maintained by finance companies.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), any notice under that
subsection may be given in respect of —

       (a) the revaluation of the assets of finance companies;

       (b) the maintenance of credit files of borrowers and
            classification of loans, advances and credit facilities of a
            finance company;

       (c) the restrictions on the granting of Singapore dollar credit
            facilities in whatever form or by whatever means to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                34

          residents of Singapore where such facilities are to be used
          outside Singapore, or to non‑residents;

(d) the appointment of the directors, chief executive and
     deputy chief executive of a finance company;

          (e) the code of conduct governing the manner and method by
              which a finance company solicits business and deals with
              its customers, the procedures for the reporting of
              transactions between a finance company and its
              employees, and conflicts of interest involving the finance
              company and its employees or involving the finance
              company and its customers;

          (f) the maximum aggregate permissible percentage holdings
              by any class, category or description of persons of interests
              in shares of a finance company;

(g) the preparation by finance companies of profit and loss
     accounts and balance sheets and the form and content
     thereof;

(h) the conditions under which finance companies can engage
     in the financing of trade and inventory;

          (i) the forms, returns and submission of statistics for the
              purposes of this Act; and

        (j) the provision for and writing off of bad debts by a finance
            company.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (3) Every finance company must comply with any direction or
requirement imposed by any notice under this section.

 (4) It is not necessary to publish any written notice issued under this
Act in the Gazette.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

Orders by Authority

 31.—(1) The Authority may, by order, prescribe —

       (a) the maximum rates of interest that finance companies are
            to pay on different types or classes of deposits;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
35  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

    (b) the maximum amount or amounts, expressed as a
         percentage or percentages, of total assets that finance
         companies may hold in one or more types or classes of
         loans, or advances;

    (c) the minimum down payments and maximum maturity
        periods for different types or classes of loans, or advances
        granted by finance companies;

    (d) the maximum rates of interest or commission and other
         charges and the methods of computing such interest or
         commission and other charges that finance companies may
         impose on different types or classes of loans, or advances
         granted by them;

    (e) the maximum amount of loans or advances which finance
        companies may grant to any person or class of persons; and

    (f) the reserves to be maintained with the Authority.

 (2) Any order made under subsection (1) is to apply uniformly to all
finance companies, or to any class or classes of finance companies,
and must, together with its effective date, be published in the Gazette.

 (3) Where a finance company has failed to maintain the reserves
required by an order made under subsection (1)(f), the Authority may
by written notice direct that finance company to make good the
deficiency within the period specified in the notice.

 (4) If the defaulting finance company fails to make good the
deficiency within the period specified in the notice mentioned in
subsection (3), it is lawful, despite any other written law, for the
Authority to serve a written notice upon any bank with which the
defaulting finance company has a credit balance, whether in current
or deposit account, directing that bank to transfer to the Authority up
to the amount specified in the notice as being equivalent to the
amount of the deficiency in the minimum cash balances of the
defaulting finance company required under subsection (1)(f) and the
bank must comply immediately with the requirements of that notice.

 (5) The Authority may, despite any notice given under
subsection (3) or (4), impose on any finance company that fails to
maintain the reserves required by an order made under

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                36

subsection (1)(f) a penalty interest charge of $100 per day or such
larger amount as the Authority may determine for every day during
which the finance company continues to fail to maintain such
reserves.

                                    PART 5

                      MINIMUM LIQUID ASSETS

Minimum holdings of liquid assets by finance companies

 32.—(1) Every finance company must maintain a minimum
holding of liquid assets, as defined in subsection (4).

 (2) The minimum amount of liquid assets to be maintained by every
finance company is to be determined from time to time by the
Authority and must be expressed in the form of a percentage or
percentages which those assets bear to the liabilities of each finance
company on account of deposits and other liabilities, either jointly or
separately.

 (3) The Authority must prescribe the method of computing the
amount of liquid assets to be held by finance companies.

 (4) In this section, “liquid assets” means —

       (a) notes and coins that are legal tender in Singapore;

       (b) Singapore Government securities;

       (c) Singapore Government securities held under overnight
            repurchase agreements with banks in Singapore and
            approved primary and registered dealers in Singapore
            Government securities;

       (d) bills of exchange denominated in Singapore dollars
            accepted or endorsed by at least 2 banks in Singapore,
            which arise from genuine trade transactions and are
            payable within 3 months; and

       (e) such other assets as the Authority may from time to time
            specify by a written notice.

                                                                                                           [15/2021]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
37  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

 (5) Any finance company which fails to comply with any
requirement of this section shall be liable, on being called upon to
do so by the Authority (in addition to any other penalty that may be
imposed under this Act), to pay a penalty interest charge of $100 per
day or such larger amount as the Authority may determine for every
day during which the default continues and must not while the default
continues accept any deposits or enter into new commitments without
the approval of the Authority.

                                    PART 6

  INSPECTION AND CONTROL OF FINANCE COMPANIES

Inspection and investigation of finance companies and
production of books, etc.

 33.—(1) The Authority may, from time to time, inspect or cause to
be inspected under conditions of secrecy, the books, accounts and
transactions of any finance company and of any branch, agency or
office outside Singapore opened by a finance company incorporated
in Singapore.

 (2) The Authority may at any time make an investigation, under
conditions of secrecy, of the books, accounts and transactions of a
finance company, if the Authority has reason to believe that the
finance company —

       (a) is carrying on its business in a manner detrimental to the
            interests of its depositors and other creditors;

       (b) has insufficient assets to cover its liabilities to the public;
            or

       (c) is contravening the provisions of this Act.

 (3) The Authority may appoint any auditor, other than the auditor
appointed by the finance company under section 205 of the
Companies Act 1967, to exercise the powers of the Authority
under subsections (1) and (2).

 (4) For the purpose of an inspection or investigation under this
section, a finance company must afford the Authority access to its

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                38

books, accounts and documents and must give any information and
facilities that may be required to conduct the investigation.

 (5) No books, accounts and documents mentioned in subsection (4)
are to be required to be produced at any time and at any place that
would interfere with the proper conduct of the normal daily business
of that finance company.

 (6) If any book, account or document or information is not
produced in accordance with subsection (4), the finance company
concerned shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 and to a further fine of
$1,000 for every day during which the default continues after
conviction.

Information of insolvency, etc.

 34.—(1) Any finance company which is or is likely to become
insolvent, which is or is likely to become unable to meet its
obligations, or which has suspended or is about to suspend payments,
must immediately inform the Authority of that fact.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (2) Any finance company which contravenes subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $20,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $2,000 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

Interpretation of sections 34A to 39

 34A. In this section and sections 35 to 39, unless the context
otherwise requires —

      “business” includes affairs and property;

      “office holder”, in relation to a finance company, means any
         person acting as the liquidator, the provisional liquidator, the
         receiver or the receiver and manager of the finance company,
         or acting in an equivalent capacity in relation to the finance
         company;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
39  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

    “relevant business” means any business of a finance
       company —

    (a) which the Authority has assumed control of under
         section 35; or

    (b) in relation to which a statutory adviser or a statutory
         manager has been appointed under section 35;

    “statutory adviser” means a statutory adviser appointed under
       section 35;

    “statutory manager” means a statutory manager appointed under
       section 35.

                                                                                                       [10/2013]

Action by Authority if finance company unable to meet
obligations, etc.

 35.—(1) The Authority may exercise any one or more of the
powers specified in subsection (2) as appears to it to be necessary,
where —

       (a) a finance company informs the Authority that it is or is
            likely to become insolvent, or that it is or is likely to
            become unable to meet its obligations, or that it has
            suspended or is about to suspend payments;

       (b) a finance company becomes unable to meet its obligations,
            or is insolvent, or suspends payments;

       (c) the Authority is of the opinion that a finance company —

               (i) is carrying on its business in a manner likely to be
                   detrimental to the interests of its depositors or
                   creditors;

              (ii) is or is likely to become insolvent, or is or is likely to
                   become unable to meet its obligations, or is about to
                   suspend payments;

             (iii) has contravened any of the provisions of this Act; or

             (iv) has failed to comply with any condition attached to
                   its licence; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                40

      (d) the Authority considers it in the public interest to do so.

                                                                                                         [10/2013]

(2) Subject to subsection (1), the Authority may —

(a) require the finance company immediately to take any
     action or to do or not to do any act or thing whatsoever in
     relation to its business as the Authority may consider
     necessary;

(b) appoint one or more persons as statutory adviser, on such
     terms and conditions as the Authority may specify, to
     advise the finance company on the proper management of
     such of the business of the finance company as the
     Authority may determine; or

       (c) assume control of and manage such of the business of the
            finance company as the Authority may determine, or
            appoint one or more persons as statutory manager to do so
            on such terms and conditions as the Authority may specify.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (3) Where the Authority appoints 2 or more persons as the statutory
manager of a finance company, the Authority must specify, in the
terms and conditions of the appointment, which of the duties,
functions and powers of the statutory manager —

(a) may be discharged or exercised by such persons jointly and
     severally;

(b) must be discharged or exercised by such persons jointly;
     and

       (c) must be discharged or exercised by a specified person or
            such persons.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (4) Where the Authority has exercised any power under
subsection (2), it may, at any time and without affecting its power
under section 15(1)(c)(ii), do one or more of the following:

(a) vary or revoke any requirement of, any appointment made
     by or any action taken by the Authority in the exercise of
     such power, on such terms and conditions as it may
     specify;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
41  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

    (b) further exercise any of the powers under subsection (2);

       (c) add to, vary or revoke any term or condition specified by
            the Authority under this section.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (5) No liability shall be incurred by a statutory manager or a
statutory adviser for anything done (including any statement made) or
omitted to be done with reasonable care and in good faith in the
course of or in connection with —

    (a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
         Act;

    (b) the performance or purported performance of any function
         or duty under this Act; or

       (c) the compliance or purported compliance with this Act.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (6) Any finance company that fails to comply with a requirement
imposed by the Authority under subsection (2)(a) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $2,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

Effect of assumption of control under section 35

 36.—(1) Upon assuming control of the relevant business of a
finance company, the Authority or statutory manager (as the case may
be) must take custody or control of the relevant business.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (2) During the period when the Authority or statutory manager is in
control of the relevant business of a finance company, the Authority
or statutory manager —

       (a) must manage the relevant business of the finance company
            in the name of and on behalf of the finance company; and

       (b) is deemed to be an agent of the finance company.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                42

 (3) In managing the relevant business of a finance company, the
Authority or statutory manager —

(a) must take into consideration the interests of the depositors
     of the finance company; and

       (b) has all the duties, powers and functions of the members of
            the board of directors of the finance company (collectively
            and individually) under this Act, the Companies Act 1967
            and the constitution of the finance company, including
            powers of delegation, in relation to the relevant business of
            the finance company; but nothing in this paragraph
            requires the Authority or statutory manager to call any
            meeting of the finance company under the Companies
            Act 1967 or the constitution of the finance company.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (4) Despite any written law or rule of law, upon the assumption of
control of the relevant business of a finance company by the
Authority or statutory manager, any appointment of a person as the
chief executive or a director of the finance company, which was in
force immediately before the assumption of control, is deemed to be
revoked, unless the Authority gives its approval, by written notice to
the person and the finance company, for the person to remain in the
appointment.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (5) Despite any written law or rule of law, during the period when
the Authority or statutory manager is in control of the relevant
business of a finance company, except with the approval of the
Authority, a person must not be appointed as the chief executive or a
director of the finance company.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (6) Where the Authority has given its approval under subsection (4)
or (5) to a person to remain in the appointment of, or to be appointed
as, the chief executive or a director of a finance company, the
Authority may at any time, by written notice to the person and the
finance company, revoke that approval, and the appointment is
deemed to be revoked on the date specified in the notice.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
43  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

 (7) Despite any written law or rule of law, if any person, whose
appointment as the chief executive or a director of a finance company
is revoked under subsection (4) or (6), acts or purports to act after the
revocation as the chief executive or a director of the finance company
during the period when the Authority or statutory manager is in
control of the relevant business of the finance company —

    (a) the act or purported act of the person is invalid and of no
         effect; and

    (b) the person shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                              [10/2013]

 (8) Despite any written law or rule of law, if any person who is
appointed as the chief executive or a director of a finance company in
contravention of subsection (5) acts or purports to act as the chief
executive or a director of the finance company during the period
when the Authority or statutory manager is in control of the relevant
business of the finance company —

    (a) the act or purported act of the person is invalid and of no
         effect; and

    (b) the person shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                              [10/2013]

 (9) During the period when the Authority or statutory manager is in
control of the relevant business of a finance company —

    (a) if there is any conflict or inconsistency between —

    (i) a direction or decision given by the Authority or
        statutory manager (including a direction or decision
        to a person or body of persons referred to in
        sub‑paragraph (ii)); and

    (ii) a direction or decision given by any chief executive,
         director, member, executive officer, employee, agent
         or office holder, or the board of directors, of the
         finance company,

    (a) the direction or decision mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i)
         prevails over the direction or decision mentioned in
         sub‑paragraph (ii) to the extent of the conflict or
         inconsistency; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                44

       (b) a person must not exercise any voting or other right
            attached to any share in the finance company in any
            manner that may defeat or interfere with any duty, function
            or power of the Authority or statutory manager, and any
            such act or purported act is invalid and of no effect.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (10) Any person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (7) or
(8) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $2,000
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (11) In this section, “constitution”, in relation to a finance company,
means the memorandum of association and articles of association of
the finance company.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

Duration of control

 37.—(1) The Authority must cease to be in control of the relevant
business of a finance company when the Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) the reasons for the Authority’s assumption of control of the
            relevant business have ceased to exist; or

       (b) it is no longer necessary for the protection of the depositors
            of the finance company.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (2) A statutory manager is deemed to have assumed control of the
relevant business of a finance company on the date of the statutory
manager’s appointment as a statutory manager.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (3) The appointment of a statutory manager in relation to the
relevant business of a finance company may be revoked by the
Authority at any time —

       (a) if the Authority is satisfied that —

               (i) the reasons for the appointment have ceased to exist;
                   or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
45  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

    (ii) it is no longer necessary for the protection of the
         depositors of the finance company; or

    (b) on any other ground,

and upon such revocation, the statutory manager ceases to be in
control of the relevant business of the finance company.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (4) The Authority must, as soon as practicable, publish in the
Gazette the date, and any other particulars that the Authority thinks
fit, of —

    (a) the Authority’s assumption of control of the relevant
         business of a finance company;

    (b) the cessation of the Authority’s control of the relevant
         business of a finance company;

    (c) the appointment of a statutory manager in relation to the
        relevant business of a finance company; and

    (d) the revocation of a statutory manager’s appointment in
         relation to the relevant business of a finance company.

                                                                                                     [10/2013]

Responsibilities of officers, member, etc., of finance company

 38.—(1) During the period when the Authority or statutory
manager is in control of the relevant business of a finance
company —

       (a) the General Division of the High Court may, on an
            application by the Authority or statutory manager, direct
            any person who has ceased to be or who is still any chief
            executive, director, member, executive officer, employee,
            agent, banker, auditor or office holder of, or trustee for, the
            finance company to pay, deliver, convey, surrender or
            transfer to the Authority or statutory manager, within such
            period as the General Division of the High Court may
            specify, any property, book, accounts, record or other
            documents, whether in electronic, print or other form, of
            the finance company which is comprised in, forms part of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                46

          or relates to the relevant business of the finance company,
          and which is in the person’s possession or control; and

      (b) any person who has ceased to be or who is still any chief
           executive, director, member, executive officer, employee,
           agent, banker, auditor or office holder of, or trustee for, the
           finance company must give to the Authority or statutory
           manager such information as the Authority or statutory
           manager may require for the discharge of the Authority’s
           or statutory manager’s duties or functions, or the exercise
           of the Authority’s or statutory manager’s powers, in
           relation to the finance company, within such time and in
           such manner as may be specified by the Authority or
           statutory manager.

                                                                                             [10/2013; 40/2019]

(2) Any person who —

(a) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
     subsection (1)(b); or

(b) in purported compliance with subsection (1)(b), knowingly
     or recklessly provides any information or document that is
     false or misleading in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $2,000 for every day or part of a day during which
the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

Remuneration and expenses of Authority and others in certain
cases

 39. The Authority may at any time fix the remuneration and
expenses to be paid by a finance company —

       (a) to a statutory manager or statutory adviser appointed in
            relation to the finance company, whether or not the
            appointment has been revoked; and

       (b) where the Authority has assumed control of the relevant
            business of the finance company, to the Authority and any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
47  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

    person authorised or appointed by the Authority under
    section 42 in relation to the Authority’s assumption of
    control of the relevant business, whether or not the
    Authority has ceased to be in control of the relevant
    business.

                                                                                             [10/2013]

                                   PART 6A

              VOLUNTARY TRANSFER OF BUSINESS

Interpretation of this Part

 39A. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “business” includes affairs, property, right, obligation and
         liability;

      “Court” means the General Division of the High Court;

      “debenture” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
         Companies Act 1967;

      “property” includes property, right and power of every
         description;

      “Registrar of Companies” means the Registrar of Companies
         appointed under the Companies Act 1967 and includes any
         Deputy or Assistant Registrar of Companies appointed under
         that Act;

      “transferee” means a finance company, or a company which has
         applied or will be applying for a licence to carry on financing
         business in Singapore, to which the whole or any part of a
         transferor’s business is, is to be or is proposed to be
         transferred under this Part;

      “transferor” means a finance company the whole or any part of
         the business of which is, is to be, or is proposed to be
         transferred under this Part.

                                                                                                [10/2013; 40/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                48

Voluntary transfer of business

 39B.—(1) A transferor may transfer the whole or any part of its
business (including any business that is not financing business) to a
transferee, if —

(a) the Authority has consented to the transfer;

(b) the transfer involves the whole or any part of the financing
     business of the transferor; and

          (c) the Court has approved the transfer.

                                                                    [10/2013]

 (2) Subsection (1) does not affect the right of a finance company to
transfer the whole or any part of its business under any law.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (3) The Authority may consent to a transfer under subsection (1)(a)
if the Authority is satisfied that —

(a) the transferee is a fit and proper person; and

       (b) the transferee will conduct the business of the transferor
            prudently and comply with the provisions of this Act.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (4) The Authority may at any time appoint one or more persons to
perform an independent assessment of, and provide a report on, the
proposed transfer of a transferor’s business (or any part thereof)
under this Part.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (5) The remuneration and expenses of any person appointed under
subsection (4) must be paid by the transferor and the transferee jointly
and severally.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (6) The Authority must serve a copy of any report provided under
subsection (4) on the transferor and the transferee.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (7) The Authority may require a person to provide, within the
period and in the manner specified by the Authority, any information
or document that the Authority may reasonably require for the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
49  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

discharge of its duties or functions, or the exercise of its powers,
under this Part.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (8) Any person who —

    (a) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with any
         requirement under subsection (7); or

    (b) in purported compliance with any requirement under
         subsection (7), knowingly or recklessly provides any
         information or document that is false or misleading in a
         material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $2,000 for every day or part of a day during which
the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (9) Where a person claims, before providing the Authority with any
information or document that the person is required to provide under
subsection (7), that the information or document might tend to
incriminate the person, the information or document is not admissible
in evidence against the person in criminal proceedings other than
proceedings under subsection (8).

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

Approval of transfer

 39C.—(1) A transferor must apply to the Court for its approval of
the transfer of the whole or any part of the business of the transferor to
the transferee under this Part.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (2) Before making an application under subsection (1) —

       (a) the transferor must lodge with the Authority a report
            setting out such details of the transfer and provide such
            supporting documents as the Authority may specify;

       (b) the transferor must obtain the consent of the Authority
            under section 39B(1)(a);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                50

          (c) the transferor and the transferee must, if they intend to
              serve on their respective customers a summary of the
              transfer, obtain the Authority’s approval of the summary;

(d) the transferor must, at least 15 days before the application
     is made but not earlier than one month after the report
     mentioned in paragraph (a) is lodged with the Authority,
     publish in the Gazette and in such newspaper or
     newspapers as the Authority may determine a notice of
     the transferor’s intention to make the application and
     containing such other particulars as may be prescribed;

          (e) the transferor and the transferee must keep at their
              respective offices in Singapore, for inspection by any
              person who may be affected by the transfer, a copy of the
              report mentioned in paragraph (a) for a period of 15 days
              after the publication of the notice mentioned in
              paragraph (d) in the Gazette; and

        (f) unless the Court directs otherwise, the transferor and the
            transferee must serve on their respective customers
            affected by the transfer, at least 15 days before the
            application is made, a copy of the report mentioned in
            paragraph (a) or a summary of the transfer approved by the
            Authority under paragraph (c).

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (3) The Authority and any person who, in the opinion of the Court,
is likely to be affected by the transfer —

(a) have the right to appear before and be heard by the Court in
     any proceedings relating to the transfer; and

       (b) may make any application to the Court in relation to the
            transfer.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (4) The Court must not approve the transfer if the Authority has not
consented under section 39B(1)(a) to the transfer.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (5) The Court may, after considering the views (if any) of the
Authority on the transfer —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
51  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

    (a) approve the transfer without modification or subject to any
         modification agreed to by the transferor and the transferee;
         or

    (b) refuse to approve the transfer.

                                                              [10/2013]

 (6) If the transferee is not granted a licence by the Authority, the
Court may approve the transfer on terms that the transfer takes effect
only in the event of the transferee being granted a licence by the
Authority.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (7) The Court may by the order approving the transfer or by any
subsequent order provide for all or any of the following matters:

    (a) the transfer to the transferee of the whole or any part of the
         business of the transferor;

    (b) the allotment or appropriation by the transferee of any
         share, debenture, policy or other interest in the transferee
         which under the transfer is to be allotted or appropriated by
         the transferee to or for any person;

    (c) the continuation by (or against) the transferee of any legal
        proceedings pending by (or against) the transferor;

    (d) the dissolution, without winding up, of the transferor;

    (e) the provisions to be made for persons who are affected by
        the transfer;

      (f) such incidental, consequential and supplementary matters
           as are, in the opinion of the Court, necessary to secure that
           the transfer is fully effective.

                                                                                                         [10/2013]

(8) Any order under subsection (7) may —

    (a) provide for the transfer of any business, whether or not the
         transferor otherwise has the capacity to effect the transfer
         in question;

    (b) make provision in relation to any property which is held by
         the transferor as trustee; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                52

       (c) make provision as to any future or contingent right or
            liability of the transferor, including provision as to the
            construction of any instrument under which any such right
            or liability may arise.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (9) Subject to subsection (10), where an order made under
subsection (7) provides for the transfer to the transferee of the
whole or any part of the transferor’s business, then by virtue of the
order the business (or part of the business) of the transferor specified
in the order is transferred to and vests in the transferee, free in the case
of any particular property (if the order so directs) from any charge
which by virtue of the transfer is to cease to have effect.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (10) No order under subsection (7) has any effect or operation in
transferring or otherwise vesting land in Singapore until the
appropriate entries are made with respect to the transfer or vesting
of that land by the appropriate authority.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (11) If any business specified in an order under subsection (7) is
governed by the law of any foreign country or territory, the Court may
order the transferor to take all necessary steps for securing that the
transfer of the business to the transferee is fully effective under the
law of that country or territory.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (12) Where an order is made under this section, the transferor and
the transferee must each lodge within 7 days after the order is
made —

(a) a copy of the order with the Registrar of Companies and
     with the Authority; and

       (b) where the order relates to land in Singapore, an office copy
            of the order with the appropriate authority concerned with
            the registration or recording of dealings in that land.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (13) A transferor or transferee which contravenes subsection (12),
and every officer of the transferor or transferee (as the case may be)
who fails to take all reasonable steps to secure compliance by the
transferor or transferee (as the case may be) with that subsection,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
53  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

shall each be guilty of an offence and shall each be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $200 for every day
or part of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

                                    PART 7

SUBMISSION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND DUTIES OF
                                 AUDITORS

                                                                                                           [35/2014]

Directors to submit copy of financial statements

 40. The directors of a finance company must submit to the
Authority a copy of the financial statements made under
section 201(1) and (2) of the Companies Act 1967.

                                                                                                           [35/2014]

Appointment and duties of auditors

 41.—(1) Despite the provisions of the Companies Act 1967, every
finance company must appoint annually an auditor approved by the
Authority.

 (2) An auditor must not be approved by the Authority as an auditor
for finance companies unless the auditor is able to comply with such
conditions in relation to the discharge of the auditor’s duties as may
be determined by the Authority.

 (3) The Authority may appoint an auditor —

       (a) if the finance company fails to appoint an auditor; or

       (b) if the Authority considers it desirable that another auditor
            should act with the auditor appointed under subsection (1),

and may at any time fix the remuneration to be paid by the finance
company to that auditor.

 (4) The duties of an auditor appointed under subsections (1) and (3)
are to carry out, for the year in respect of which the auditor is
appointed, an audit of the financial statements of the finance company

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                54

and to make a report in accordance with section 207 of the Companies
Act 1967.

                                                                                                           [35/2014]

 (5) The Authority may impose all or any of the following duties on
an auditor in addition to those provided under subsection (4):

(a) a duty to submit any additional information in relation to
     the auditor’s audit that the Authority considers necessary;

(b) a duty to enlarge or extend the scope of the auditor’s audit
     of the business and affairs of the finance company;

          (c) a duty to carry out any other examination or establish any
              other procedure in any particular case; and

(d) a duty to submit a report on any of the matters referred to in
     paragraphs (b) and (c),

and the finance company must remunerate the auditor in respect of
the discharge by the auditor of all or any of these additional duties.

 (6) The auditor’s report made under subsection (4) must be attached
to the financial statements and a copy of the report together with any
reports submitted under subsection (5) must be transmitted in writing
to the Authority.

                                                                                                           [35/2014]

 (7) If an auditor, in the course of the performance of the auditor’s
duties as an auditor of a finance company, is satisfied that —

(a) there has been a serious breach or non-observance of the
     provisions of this Act or that otherwise a criminal offence
     involving fraud or dishonesty has been committed;

(b) losses have been incurred which reduce the capital funds of
     the finance company by 50%;

          (c) serious irregularities have occurred, including
              irregularities that jeopardise the security of the creditors; or

(d) the auditor is unable to confirm that the claims of creditors
     are still covered by the assets,

the auditor must immediately report the matter to the Authority.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
55  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

                             PART 8

    MISCELLANEOUS

Authority to administer Act

 42.—(1) The Authority is charged with the general administration
of this Act and the exercise of the functions imposed on it by this Act.

 (2) The Authority may authorise or appoint any person to assist it in
the exercise of its functions and duties under this Act, either generally
or in a particular case.

 (3) The members of the Authority are deemed to be public servants
within the meaning of the Penal Code 1871.

Prohibition against transacting of financing business on public
holidays

 43. A finance company must not transact any business without the
approval of the Authority on any day that is a public holiday under the
provisions of the Holidays Act 1998, or on any day declared by the
Authority to be a bank holiday under section 60 of the Banking
Act 1970.

Priority of specified liabilities

 44.—(1) Where a finance company becomes unable to meet its
obligations or becomes insolvent or suspends payment, the assets of
the finance company are to be available to meet the liabilities in
Singapore of the finance company specified in section 44A.

 (2) The liabilities in Singapore specified in section 44A have
priority over all unsecured liabilities of the finance company other
than the preferential debts specified in section 203(1) of the
Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018.

                                                                                                           [40/2018]

Priority of specified liabilities inter se

 44A.—(1) Despite any written law or rule of law relating to the
winding up of companies, in the event of a winding up of a finance
company, the following liabilities in Singapore of the finance
company, among themselves, rank in the following order of priority:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                56

(a) firstly, any premium contributions due and payable by the
     finance company under the Deposit Insurance and Policy
     Owners’ Protection Schemes Act 2011;

(b) secondly, liabilities incurred by the finance company under
     the Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’ Protection
     Schemes Act 2011 in respect of insured deposits, up to the
     amount of compensation paid or payable out of the DI
     Fund by the Agency under the Deposit Insurance and
     Policy Owners’ Protection Schemes Act 2011 in respect of
     such insured deposits;

      (c) thirdly, any sum claimed by the trustee of a resolution fund
           within the meaning of section 107 of the Financial Services
           and Markets Act 2022 from the finance company under
           section 112, 113, 114 or 115 of that Act.

                                                                                                         [31/2017]

                                                                             [Act 18 of 2022 wef 10/05/2024]

(2) The liabilities in each class specified in subsection (1) —

(a) rank in the order specified but as between liabilities of the
     same class, such liabilities rank equally between
     themselves; and

(b) must be paid in full unless the assets of the finance
     company are insufficient to meet them in which case they
     are to abate in equal proportions between themselves.

 (3) In this section, “Agency” and “DI Fund” have the same
respective meanings as in section 2(1) of the Deposit Insurance and
Policy Owners’ Protection Schemes Act 2011.

45. [Repealed by Act 10 of 2013]

Memorandum and articles of association of finance company

 46.—(1) Every company must, before it is granted a licence by the
Authority to carry on financing business under this Act, include in its
memorandum or articles of association the restrictions, limitations
and prohibitions contained in sections 23 to 27.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
57  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

(2) Every company that —

    (a) has carried on financing business in Singapore before
         10 January 1968; and

    (b) is licensed under this Act,

but whose memorandum or articles of association do not include all
or any of the restrictions, limitations or prohibitions contained in
sections 23 to 27, is deemed to have included in its memorandum or
articles of association all or any of such restrictions, limitations or
prohibitions as are not so included.

 (3) To the extent that any such restriction, limitation or prohibition
so deemed to have been included in those memorandum or articles of
association under subsection (2) is inconsistent with any provision
already included in the memorandum or articles of association, that
restriction, limitation or prohibition prevails over such provision.

Disqualification or removal of director or executive officer

 47.—(1) Despite any other written law, a finance company must
not, without the prior written consent of the Authority, permit a
person to act as its director or executive officer, if the person —

       (a) has been convicted, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, of
            an offence committed before, on or after 18 April 2013,
            being an offence —

               (i) involving fraud or dishonesty;

              (ii) the conviction for which involved a finding that he or
                   she had acted fraudulently or dishonestly; or

             (iii) that is specified in the Third Schedule to the
                   Registration of Criminals Act 1949;

       (b) is an undischarged bankrupt, whether in Singapore or
            elsewhere;

       (c) has had an enforcement order against him or her in respect
            of a judgment debt returned unsatisfied in whole or in part;

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2021]

       (d) has, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, entered into a
            compromise or scheme of arrangement with his or her

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                58

          creditors, being a compromise or scheme of arrangement
          that is still in operation;

          (e) has had a prohibition order made against him or her that
              remains in force; or

                                                                              [Act 18 of 2022 wef 31/07/2024]

          (f) has been a director of, or directly concerned in the
              management of, a regulated financial institution, whether
              in Singapore or elsewhere —

          (i) which is being or has been wound up by a court; or

              (ii) the approval, authorisation, designation, recognition,
                   registration or licence of which has been withdrawn,
                   cancelled or revoked by the Authority or, in the case
                   of a regulated financial institution in a foreign
                   country or territory, by the regulatory authority in
                   that foreign country or territory.

                                                                                                 [10/2013; 4/2017]

 (2) Despite any other written law, where the Authority is satisfied
that a director or an executive officer of a finance company —

(a) has wilfully contravened or wilfully caused the finance
     company to contravene any provision of this Act;

(b) has, without reasonable excuse, failed to secure the
     compliance of the finance company with this Act, the
     Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970 or any of the
     written laws set out in the Schedule to that Act; or

          (c) has failed to discharge any of the duties of his or her office,

the Authority may, if it thinks it necessary in the public interest or for
the protection of the depositors or creditors of the finance company,
by written notice to the finance company, direct the finance company
to remove the director or executive officer (as the case may be) from
his or her office or employment within such period as may be
specified by the Authority in the notice, and the finance company
must comply with the notice.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (3) Without affecting any other matter that the Authority may
consider relevant, the Authority must, when determining whether a

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
59  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

director or an executive officer of a finance company has failed to
discharge the duties of his or her office for the purposes of
subsection (2)(c), have regard to any criteria prescribed.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (4) Before directing a finance company to remove a person from his
or her office or employment under subsection (2), the Authority
must —

    (a) give the finance company and the person written notice of
         its intention to do so; and

       (b) in the notice referred to in paragraph (a), call upon the
            finance company and the person to show cause, within the
            time specified in the notice, why the person should not be
            removed.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (5) If the finance company and the person mentioned in
subsection (4) —

    (a) fail to show cause within the time specified under
         subsection (4)(b) or within any extended period of time
         that the Authority allows; or

    (b) fail to show sufficient cause,

the Authority may direct the finance company to remove the person
under subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (6) Any finance company which, or any director or executive
officer of a finance company who, is aggrieved by a direction of the
Authority under subsection (2) may, within 30 days after receiving
the direction, appeal in writing to the Minister, whose decision is
final.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (7) Any finance company which contravenes subsection (1) or fails
to comply with a notice issued under subsection (2) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                60

 (8) No criminal or civil liability is incurred by a finance company,
or any person acting on behalf of the finance company, in respect of
anything done (including any statement made) or omitted to be done
with reasonable care and in good faith in the discharge or purported
discharge of the obligations of the finance company under this
section.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (9) In this section, unless the context otherwise requires —

“prohibition order” means —

          (a) a prohibition order made under section 68(1) of the
               Financial Advisers Act 2001 as in force immediately
               before the date of commencement of
               section 200(1)(b) and (2) to (7) of the Financial
               Services and Markets Act 2022;

          (b) a prohibition order made under section 68(1) of the
               Financial Advisers Act 2001 as in force immediately
               before the date of commencement of
               section 200(1)(b) and (2) to (7) of the Financial
               Services and Markets Act 2022, and as continued by
               section 217(2) of the Financial Services and Markets
               Act 2022;

          (c) an order made under section 74(1) of the Insurance
              Act 1966 as in force immediately before the date of
              commencement of section 204(1) to (4) of the
              Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

          (d) an order made under section 74(1) of the Insurance
               Act 1966 as in force immediately before the date of
               commencement of section 204(1) to (4) of the
               Financial Services and Markets Act 2022, and as
               continued by section 218(2) of the Financial Services
               and Markets Act 2022;

          (e) a prohibition order made under section 101A(1) of
              the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force
              immediately before the date of commencement of
              section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and
              (18) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
61  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

    (f) a prohibition order made under section 101A(1) of
        the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force
        immediately before the date of commencement of
        section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and
        (18) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022,
        and as continued by section 220(3) of the Financial
        Services and Markets Act 2022;

    (g) a prohibition order made under section 123ZZC(1) of
         the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force
         immediately before the date of commencement of
         section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and
         (18) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

    (h) a prohibition order made under section 123ZZC(1) of
         the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force
         immediately before the date of commencement of
         section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and
         (18) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022,
         and as continued by section 220(5) of the Financial
         Services and Markets Act 2022; or

            (i) a prohibition order made under section 7(1) of the
                 Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

                                                                           [Act 18 of 2022 wef 31/07/2024]

    “regulated financial institution” means a person who carries on a
       business, the conduct of which is regulated or authorised by
       the Authority or, if it is carried on in Singapore, would be
       regulated or authorised by the Authority;

    “regulatory authority”, in relation to a foreign country or
       territory, means an authority of the foreign country or
       territory exercising any function that corresponds to a
       regulatory function of the Authority under this Act, the
       Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970 or any of the
       written laws set out in the Schedule to that Act.

                                                              [10/2013]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                62

Penalty for offences not otherwise provided for

 48. Any finance company which, or person who, contravenes or
fails to comply with any provisions of this Act or any order made
under this Act for which no penalty is expressly provided shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both.

Composition of offences

 48A.—(1) The Authority may compound any offence under this
Act which is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting
from a person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence
a sum of money not exceeding one half of the amount of the
maximum fine prescribed for that offence.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (2) The Authority may compound any offence under this Act
(including an offence under a provision which has been repealed)
which —

       (a) was compoundable under this section at the time the
            offence was committed; but

       (b) has ceased to be so compoundable,

by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum of money not exceeding one half of
the amount of the maximum fine prescribed for that offence at the
time it was committed.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (3) On payment of the sum of money referred to in subsection (1) or
(2), no further proceedings are to be taken against that person in
respect of the offence.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (4) The Authority may make regulations to prescribe the offences
which may be compounded.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

 (5) All sums collected by the Authority under subsection (1) or (2)
must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [10/2013]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
63  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

Recovery of fees, expenses, etc.

 48B. There is recoverable as a civil debt due to the Authority from
the finance company concerned —

    (a) the amount of any fees payable under section 6(7); and

    (b) any remuneration and expenses payable by the finance
         company to —

    (i) a statutory adviser appointed under section 35(2);

    (ii) a statutory manager appointed under section 35(2);

    (iii) the Authority or any person authorised or appointed
          by the Authority under section 42 in relation to the
          Authority’s assumption of control of any business of
          the finance company under section 35; and

    (iv) any person appointed to perform any independent
         assessment under Part 6A.

                                                                                            [10/2013]

Offences by directors or managers

 49.—(1) Any person who, being a director, managing director or
manager of a finance company —

       (a) fails to comply, or to take all reasonable steps to secure
            compliance by the finance company, with the provisions of
            this Act or any order made under this Act or any other law
            relating to finance companies in force in Singapore; or

       (b) fails to ensure or to take all reasonable steps to ensure the
            accuracy and correctness of any statement or information
            submitted under this Act or any other law relating to
            finance companies in force in Singapore,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both.

 (2) In any proceedings against a person under subsection (1), it is a
defence to prove that the person had reasonable grounds to believe
and did believe that a competent and reliable person was charged with
the duty of securing compliance with the provisions of this Act or any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                64

order made under this Act or any other written law relating to finance
companies in Singapore or with the duty of securing that those
statements were accurate and correct and that the person was in a
position to discharge that duty.

 (3) A person shall not be sentenced to imprisonment for any offence
under subsection (1) unless in the opinion of the court the offence was
committed wilfully.

Falsification of books, documents, etc.

 50. Any director, manager, trustee, auditor, employee or agent of
any finance company who —

       (a) wilfully makes or causes to be made a false entry in any
            book of record or in any report, slip, document or statement
            of the business, affairs, transactions, conditions, assets or
            accounts of that finance company;

       (b) wilfully omits to make an entry in any book of record or in
            any report, slip, document or statement of the business,
            affairs, transactions, conditions, assets or accounts of that
            finance company, or wilfully causes any such entry to be
            omitted; or

       (c) wilfully alters, abstracts, conceals or destroys an entry in
            any book of record or in any report, slip, document or
            statement of the business, affairs, transactions, conditions,
            assets or accounts of that finance company, or wilfully
            causes any such entry to be altered, abstracted, concealed
            or destroyed,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both.

Holding out as finance company

 51. Where any public or private company or firm or limited liability
partnership or VCC holds itself out to be a licensed finance company
when it is not licensed under this Act, such company or firm or
limited liability partnership or VCC shall be guilty of an offence and
every director, manager or every officer of that company and the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
65  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

proprietor or every partner or officer of that firm and every partner or
manager of the limited liability partnership and every director,
manager or officer of that VCC shall, unless the person proves that
such holding out by the company or firm or limited liability
partnership or VCC was made without the person’s knowledge or
consent, be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $15,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

Consent of Public Prosecutor

 52. No prosecution in respect of any offence under this Act may be
instituted except by, or with the consent of, the Public Prosecutor
acting upon a complaint made by the Authority.

Jurisdiction of District Court

 52A. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any
offence under this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or
punishment in respect of the offence.

Exemptions

 53.—(1) This Act does not apply to —

       (a) any bank or merchant bank licensed under the Banking
            Act 1970; or

       (b) any business of pawnbroking carried on by a person
            licensed under the Pawnbrokers Act 2015.

                                                                                                   [2/2015; 1/2020]

 (2) Every co-operative society registered as a credit society under
the Co-operative Societies Act 1979 to provide financial services is,
to the extent that such services amount to financing business, exempt
from section 3 in respect of such services.

 (3) Despite the provisions of this Act, the Authority may exempt
any finance company from all or any of the provisions of this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Finance Companies Act 1967                                66

Winding up provisions

 54.—(1) Without affecting the provisions of the Insolvency,
Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 and Part 8 of the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2022 —

(a) a company (whether or not it is being wound up
     voluntarily) may be wound up under an order of the
     court on the application of the Authority; and

(b) the court may order the winding up of a company if —

          (i) the company has held a licence under this Act and
              that licence has expired or has been revoked; or

              (ii) the company has carried on financing business in
                   Singapore in contravention of the provisions of this
                   Act.

                                                                                                [10/2013; 40/2018]

                                                                               [Act 18 of 2022 wef 10/05/2024]

 (2) In the winding up of a company that has been carrying on
financing business, the depositors are deemed to be holders of
debentures issued to them by the company and secured by a floating
charge over all the property and undertaking of the company.

Redemption of securities held by finance company

 55.—(1) As soon as practicable after the making of an order for the
winding up of a finance company, the liquidator of the company
must —

       (a) publish in the Gazette a notice requiring every debtor of the
            finance company to redeem any property that the debtor
            has deposited with the company as security for any loan
            that the debtor has obtained from the finance company; and

       (b) send by registered post such notice to every debtor whose
            security is held by the finance company and whose name is
            mentioned in the statement of affairs made out under
            section 141 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
            Dissolution Act 2018.

                                                                                                           [40/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
67  Finance Companies Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

 (2) The notice must specify the latest date up to which any security
may be redeemed, which date must be at least 3 months from the date
of the notice.

 (3) After the latest date for redeeming any security held by the
finance company specified in the notice, the liquidator may proceed
to realise any security held by the finance company forthwith, despite
any agreement setting out any other period of redemption previously
entered into between the finance company and the debtor.

Operation of Act not to affect Companies Act 1967

 56. Nothing in this Act affects the operation of the Companies
Act 1967, and any company that is liable to be incorporated under that
Act continues to be so liable as if this Act had not been passed but in
case of conflict between that Act and this Act the provisions of this
Act prevail unless otherwise provided in this Act.

Regulations

 57.—(1) The Authority may, from time to time, make regulations
for, or in respect of, every purpose which is considered by it necessary
for carrying out the provisions of this Act and for the prescribing of
any matter which is authorised or required under this Act to be so
prescribed.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may by such
regulations —

       (a) prescribe fees to be charged under this Act; and

       (b) regulate advertisements of finance companies.

 (3) Such regulations may provide that a contravention of any
provision of the regulations shall be an offence and shall be
punishable with a fine not exceeding $5,000 or with imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 12 months or with both as may be specified
in the regulations.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
                 LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
           FINANCE COMPANIES ACT 1967

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 43 of 1967 — Finance Companies Act, 1967

Bill           : 37/1967

First Reading  : 5 December 1967

Second and Third Readings : 21 December 1967

Commencement   : 10 January 1968

2. Act 21 of 1969 — Finance Companies (Amendment) Act, 1969

Bill           : 16/1969

First Reading  : 15 October 1969

Second and Third Readings : 23 December 1969

Commencement   : 5 January 1970

3. 1970 Revised Edition — Finance Companies Act (Chapter 191)

Operation      : 1 July 1971

4. Act 33 of 1984 — Finance Companies (Amendment) Act 1984

Bill           : 28/1984

First Reading  : 24 August 1984

Second and Third Readings : 19 October 1984

Commencement   : 16 November 1984

5. G.N. No. S 303/1984 — Finance Companies (Amendment) Act
                                   (Commencement) Notification 1984

Commencement   : 30 November 1984

6. G.N. No. S 308/1984 — The Finance Companies (Amendment) Act 1984

Commencement   : 30 November 1984

7. 1985 Revised Edition — Finance Companies Act (Chapter 108)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

8. G.N. No. S 337/1987 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Rectification)
                                   Order 1987

Operation      : 30 March 1987

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
                      ii

9. Act 27 of 1994 — Finance Companies (Amendment) Act 1994

Bill                  : 28/1994

First Reading         : 31 October 1994

Second and Third Readings : 5 December 1994

Commencement          : 18 January 1995

10. 1995 Revised Edition — Finance Companies Act (Chapter 108)

Operation             : 15 March 1995

11. Act 9 of 1995 — Futures Trading (Amendment) Act 1995
     (Amendments made by section 38 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 3/1995

First Reading         : 23 January 1995

Second and Third Readings : 1 March 1995

Commencement          : 1 April 1995 (section 38)

12. Act 37 of 1998 — Post Office Savings Bank of Singapore (Transfer of
                             Undertakings and Dissolution) Act 1998

     (Amendments made by section 19 read with item (5) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 34/1998

First Reading         : 31 July 1998

Second Reading        : 12 October 1998

Notice of Amendments  : 12 October 1998

Third Reading         : 12 October 1998

Commencement          : 16 November 1998 (section 19 read
                            with item (5) of the Schedule)

13. Act 25 of 1999 — Drug Trafficking (Confiscation of Benefits)
                             (Amendment) Act 1999

     (Amendments made by section 31 read with item (4) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 16/1999

First Reading         : 4 May 1999

Second and Third Readings : 6 July 1999

Commencement          : 13 September 1999 (section 31 read
                            with item (4) of the Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
               iii

14. 2000 Revised Edition — Finance Companies Act (Chapter 108)

Operation      : 30 December 2000

15. Act 42 of 2001 — Securities and Futures Act 2001
     (Amendments made by section 343(1) read with item (8) of the
     Fourth Schedule to the above Act)

Bill           : 33/2001

First Reading  : 25 September 2001

Second and Third Readings : 5 October 2001

Commencement   : 1 October 2002 (section 343(1) read
                     with item (8) of the Fourth Schedule)

16. Act 9 of 2003 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2003
     (Amendments made by section 16 read with item (1) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 7/2003

First Reading  : 20 March 2003

Second and Third Readings : 24 April 2003

Commencement   : 16 May 2003 (section 16 read with
                     item (1) of the Schedule)

17. Act 24 of 2003 — Monetary Authority of Singapore (Amendment)
                             Act 2003

     (Amendments made by section 13 read with item (3) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 21/2003

First Reading  : 16 October 2003

Second and Third Readings : 10 November 2003

Commencement   : 1 January 2004 (section 13 read with
                     item (3) of the Schedule)

18. Act 5 of 2005 — Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005
     (Amendments made by section 60(1) read with item (7) of the Sixth Schedule
     to the above Act)

Bill           : 64/2004

First Reading  : 19 October 2004

Second and Third Readings : 25 January 2005

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
                      iv

Commencement          : 11 April 2005 (section 60(1) read with
                            item (7) of the Sixth Schedule)

19. Act 31 of 2005 — Deposit Insurance Act 2005
     (Amendments made by section 66 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 21/2005

First Reading         : 15 August 2005

Second and Third Readings : 19 September 2005

Commencement          : 18 October 2005 (section 66)

20. Act 42 of 2005 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2005
     (Amendments made by section 5 read with item (12) of the First Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 30/2005

First Reading         : 17 October 2005

Second and Third Readings : 21 November 2005

Commencement          : 1 April 2006 (section 5 read with
                            item (12) of the First Schedule)

21. Act 23 of 2008 — Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act 2008
     (Amendments made by section 58(2) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 19/2008

First Reading         : 25 August 2008

Second Reading        : 16 September 2008

Notice of Amendments  : 16 September 2008

Third Reading         : 16 September 2008

Commencement          : 20 October 2008 (section 58(2))

22. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 41 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 11/2010

First Reading         : 26 April 2010

Second Reading        : 18 May 2010

Third Reading         : 19 May 2010

Commencement          : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                            item 41 of the Sixth Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
               v

23. Act 15 of 2011 — Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’ Protection
                            Schemes Act 2011

     (Amendments made by section 93(2) of the above Act)

Bill           : 10/2011

First Reading  : 10 March 2011

Second and Third Readings : 11 April 2011

Commencement   : 1 May 2011 (section 93(2))

24. 2011 Revised Edition — Finance Companies Act (Chapter 108)

Operation      : 15 July 2011

25. Act 10 of 2013 — Financial Institutions (Miscellaneous Amendments)
                             Act 2013

     (Amendments made by section 5 of the above Act)

Bill           : 4/2013

First Reading  : 4 February 2013

Second and Third Readings : 15 March 2013

Commencement   : 18 April 2013 (section 5)

26. Act 2 of 2015 — Pawnbrokers Act 2015
     (Amendments made by section 86 read with item 3 of the Fourth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill           : 42/2014

First Reading  : 4 November 2014

Second and Third Readings : 19 January 2015

Commencement   : 1 April 2015 (section 86 read with
                     item 3 of the Fourth Schedule)

27. Act 35 of 2014 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2014
     (Amendments made by section 6 of the above Act)

Bill           : 24/2014

First Reading  : 8 September 2014

Second and Third Readings : 7 October 2014

Commencement   : 1 July 2015 (section 6)

28. Act 4 of 2017 — Securities and Futures (Amendment) Act 2017
     (Amendments made by section 201 of the above Act)

Bill           : 35/2016

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
                      vi

First Reading         : 7 November 2016

Second and Third Readings : 9 January 2017

Commencement          : 8 October 2018 (section 201)

29. Act 31 of 2017 — Monetary Authority of Singapore (Amendment)
                             Act 2017

     (Amendments made by section 40 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 25/2017

First Reading         : 8 May 2017

Second and Third Readings : 4 July 2017

Commencement          : 29 October 2018 (section 40)

30. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 477 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2018

First Reading         : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement          : 30 July 2020 (section 477)

31. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 57 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 57 of the Schedule)

32. Act 1 of 2020 — Banking (Amendment) Act 2020
     (Amendments made by section 50 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 35/2019

First Reading         : 4 November 2019

Second and Third Readings : 6 January 2020

Commencement          : 1 July 2021 (section 50)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
                          vii

33. Act 15 of 2021 — Significant Infrastructure Government Loan Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 28 of the above Act)

Bill                      : 6/2021

First Reading             : 5 April 2021

Second and Third Readings : 10 May 2021

Commencement              : 3 August 2021 (section 28)

34. 2020 Revised Edition — Finance Companies Act 1967

Operation                 : 31 December 2021

35. G.N. No. S 26/2022 — Variable Capital Companies (Consequential
                                   Amendments to Other Acts) Order 2022

Commencement              : 13 January 2022

36. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021

Date of First Reading     : 26 July 2021
                                (Bill No. 18/2021)

Date of Second and Third  : 14 September 2021
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 April 2022

37. Act 18 of 2022 — Financial Services and Markets Act 2022

Bill                      : 4/2022

First Reading             : 14 February 2022

Second and Third Readings : 5 April 2022

Commencement              : 10 May 2024 (Section 199(1), (2) and
                                (4))
                                31 July 2024 (Section 199(3))

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
.                                viii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
              COMPARATIVE TABLE
        FINANCE COMPANIES ACT 1967

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

        2020 Ed.                    2011 Ed.
                  48—(1)
48
—                    (2) [Deleted by Act 10 of 2013]
53—(2)            53—(1A)

   (3)               (2)

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 31/7/2024
