THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
            MERCANTILE LAW AMENDMENT
                               ACT 1856

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                   2020 Ed.

         Mercantile Law Amendment
                    Act 1856

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
     1.
         Written guarantee not to be invalid by reason that consideration
     2.  does not appear in writing
         Surety who discharges liability to be entitled to assignment of all
     3.  securities held by creditor, and to stand in place of creditor
         Short title

An Act to amend the laws affecting Trade and Commerce.

                                                         [12 November 1993]

Written guarantee not to be invalid by reason that
consideration does not appear in writing

 1. No special promise to be made by any person to answer for the
debt, default, or miscarriage of another person, being in writing, and
signed by the party to be charged therewith, or some other person by
him thereunto lawfully authorised, shall be deemed invalid to support
an action, suit, or other proceeding to charge the person by whom
such promise shall have been made, by reason only that the
consideration for such promise does not appear in writing, or by
necessary inference from a written document.

         1

                                                  31.12.2021
   Mercantile Law Amendment

2  Act 1856                  2020 Ed.

Surety who discharges liability to be entitled to assignment of
all securities held by creditor, and to stand in place of creditor

 2. Every person who, being surety for the debt or duty of another, or
being liable with another for any debt or duty, shall pay such debt or
perform such duty, shall be entitled to have assigned to him, or to a
trustee for him, every judgment, specialty, or other security which
shall be held by the creditor in respect of such debt or duty, whether
such judgment, specialty, or other security shall or shall not be
deemed at law to have been satisfied by the payment of the debt or
performance of the duty, and such person shall be entitled to stand in
the place of the creditor, and to use all the remedies, and, if need be,
and upon a proper indemnity, to use the name of the creditor, in any
action or other proceeding, at law or in equity, in order to obtain from
the principal debtor, or any co-surety, co-contractor, or co-debtor, as
the case may be, indemnification for the advances made and loss
sustained by the person who shall have so paid such debt or
performed such duty, and such payment or performance so made by
such surety shall not be pleadable in bar of any such action or other
proceeding by him:

 Provided that no co-surety, co-contractor, or co-debtor shall be
entitled to recover from any other co-surety, co-contractor, or
co-debtor, by the means aforesaid, more than the just proportion to
which, as between those parties themselves, such last-mentioned
person shall be justly liable.

Short title

 3. This Act may be cited as the Mercantile Law Amendment
Act 1856.
                           LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

                    MERCANTILE LAW AMENDMENT
                                     ACT 1856

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. 19 & 20 Vict., c. 97 — The Mercantile Law Amendment Act, 1856

       Commencement                : 29 July 1856

       Application                 : 12 November 1993 (sections 3 and 5)

       Note: This Act (subject to the exceptions in the First Schedule to the
               Application of English Law Act 1993) was declared by the
               Application of English Law Act 1993 to apply or continue to apply
               in Singapore on 12 November 1993.

2. 1994 Revised Edition — Mercantile Law Amendment Act (Chapter 388)

       Operation                   : 20 May 1994

                                Abbreviations

C.P.                Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.            Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S          Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.                Legislative Assembly

L.N.                Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

                    Legislation)

M. Act              Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.               Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.        Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number

                                                                   31.12.2021
