Western Australia
Jurisdiction of Courts (Cross-vesting) Act 1987

Western Australia
Jurisdiction of Courts (Cross-vesting) Act 1987
Contents
1.	Short title and commencement	2
2.	Purpose	2
3.	Terms used	2
3A.	Corporations Act of the Commonwealth	3
4.	Vesting of additional jurisdiction in certain courts	3
5.	Transfer of proceedings	4
6.	Special federal matters	11
6A.	Special federal matters: Commonwealth authorities or officers acting under the laws of States	14
7.	Institution and hearing of appeals	16
8.	Orders by Supreme Court	18
9.	Exercise of jurisdiction pursuant to crossvesting laws	19
10.	Transfer of matters arising under Division 1 or 1A of Part V of the Trade Practices Act	19
11.	Conduct of proceedings	19
12.	Orders as to costs	20
13.	Limitation on appeals	21
14.	Enforcement and effect of judgments	21
15.	Construction of Act to be subject to legislative power of State	21
16.	Suspension or cessation of operation of Act	22
	Notes
	Compilation table	24
	Other notes	25
	Defined terms


Western Australia
Jurisdiction of Courts (Crossvesting) Act 1987
An Act relating to the crossvesting of certain jurisdiction.
Preamble
Whereas inconvenience and expense have occasionally been caused to litigants by jurisdictional limitations in federal, State and Territory courts, and whereas it is desirable —
	(a)	to establish a system of crossvesting of jurisdiction between those courts, without detracting from the existing jurisdiction of any court;
	(b)	to structure the system in such a way as to ensure as far as practicable that proceedings concerning matters which, apart from this Act and any law of the Commonwealth or another State relating to crossvesting of jurisdiction, would be entirely or substantially within the jurisdiction (other than any accrued jurisdiction) of the Federal Court or the Family Court or the jurisdiction of a Supreme Court of a State or Territory are instituted and determined in that court, whilst providing for the determination by one court of federal and State matters in appropriate cases; and
	(c)	if a proceeding is instituted in a court that is not the appropriate court, to provide a system under which the proceeding will be transferred to the appropriate court:
	[Preamble amended: No. 19 of 2010 s. 50.]
Be it therefore enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council and the Legislative Assembly of Western Australia, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows: —
1.	Short title and commencement
	(1)	This Act may be cited as the Jurisdiction of Courts (Crossvesting) Act 1987.
	(2)	This Act shall come into operation on a day to be fixed by proclamation.
2.	Purpose
		The purpose of this Act is to make provision for the crossvesting of certain jurisdiction.
3.	Terms used
	(1)	In this Act —
	Family Court means the Family Court of Australia;
	Federal Court means the Federal Court of Australia;
	Full Court, in relation to a Supreme Court of a State, includes any court of the State to which appeals lie from a single judge of that Supreme Court;
	judgment means a judgment, decree or order, whether final or interlocutory;
	party, in relation to a proceeding, includes a person who intervenes in the proceeding;
	proceeding does not include a criminal proceeding;
	special federal matter has the same meaning as in the Commonwealth Act;
	State includes the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory;
	State Family Court, in relation to a State, means a court of that State to which section 41 of the Family Law Act 1975 of the Commonwealth applies by virtue of a proclamation made under section 41(2) of that Act;
	State matter means a matter —
	(a)	in which the Supreme Court has jurisdiction otherwise than by reason of a law of the Commonwealth or of another State; or
	(b)	removed to the Supreme Court under section 8;
	Territory does not include the Northern Territory or the Australian Capital Territory;
	the Commonwealth Act means the Jurisdiction of Courts (Crossvesting) Act 1987 of the Commonwealth.
	(2)	A reference in this Act, other than a reference in section 4(3), (6) or (7), 5(3) or (4) or 7(4), to the Supreme Court of a State includes, if there is a State Family Court of that State, a reference to that State Family Court.
	(3)	In this Act, a reference to a Commonwealth Act is a reference to that Act, if amended, as amended and in force for the time being.
	[Section 3 amended: No. 3 of 1994 s. 4, 6 and 8.]
3A.	Corporations Act of the Commonwealth
		This Act does not apply to the jurisdiction of courts with which Part 9.6A Division 1 of the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth deals.
	[Section 3A inserted: No. 8 of 2001 s. 29.]
4.	Vesting of additional jurisdiction in certain courts
	[(1), (2)	deleted]
	(3)	The Supreme Court of another State or of a Territory has and may exercise original and appellate jurisdiction with respect to State matters.
	(4)	The State Family Court of another State has and may exercise original and appellate jurisdiction with respect to State matters.
	(5)	Subsection (3) or (4) does not —
	(a)	invest a Supreme Court with; or
	(b)	confer on any such court,
		jurisdiction with respect to criminal matters.
	(6)	If a proceeding is transferred from the Supreme Court to the State Family Court, the State Family Court has, by virtue of this subsection, jurisdiction with respect to so many of the matters for determination in the proceeding as that court would not have apart from this subsection.
	(7)	If a proceeding is transferred from the State Family Court to the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court has, by virtue of this subsection, jurisdiction with respect to so many of the matters for determination in the proceeding as that court would not have apart from this subsection.
	[Section 4 amended: No. 32 of 2001 s. 23.]
5.	Transfer of proceedings
	(1)	Where —
	(a)	a proceeding (in this subsection referred to as the relevant proceeding) is pending in the Supreme Court; and
	(b)	it appears to the Supreme Court that, having regard to —
	(i)	whether, in the opinion of the Supreme Court, apart from any law of the Commonwealth or another State relating to crossvesting of jurisdiction and apart from any accrued jurisdiction of the Federal Court or the Family Court, the relevant proceeding or a substantial part of the relevant proceeding would have been incapable of being instituted in the Supreme Court and capable of being instituted in the Federal Court or the Family Court;
	(ii)	the extent to which, in the opinion of the Supreme Court, the matters for determination in the relevant proceeding are matters arising under or involving questions as to the application, interpretation or validity of a law of the Commonwealth and not within the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court apart from this Act and any law of the Commonwealth or another State relating to crossvesting of jurisdiction; and
	(iii)	the interests of justice,
		it is more appropriate that the relevant proceeding be determined by the Federal Court or the Family Court, as the case may be,
		the Supreme Court shall transfer the relevant proceeding to the Federal Court or the Family Court, as the case may be.
	(2)	Where —
	(a)	a proceeding (in this subsection referred to as the relevant proceeding) is pending in the Supreme Court (in this subsection referred to as the first court); and
	(b)	it appears to the first court that —
	(i)	the relevant proceeding arises out of, or is related to, another proceeding pending in the Supreme Court of another State or of a Territory and it is more appropriate that the relevant proceeding be determined by that other Supreme Court;
	(ii)	having regard to —
	(A)	whether, in the opinion of the first court, apart from this Act and any law of the Commonwealth or another State relating to crossvesting of jurisdiction, the relevant proceeding or a substantial part of the relevant proceeding would have been incapable of being instituted in the first court and capable of being instituted in the Supreme Court of another State or Territory;
	(B)	the extent to which, in the opinion of the first court, the matters for determination in the relevant proceeding are matters arising under or involving questions as to the application, interpretation or validity of a law of the State or Territory referred to in subsubparagraph (A) and not within the jurisdiction of the first court apart from this Act and any law of the Commonwealth or another State relating to crossvesting of jurisdiction; and
	(C)	the interests of justice,
		it is more appropriate that the relevant proceeding be determined by that other Supreme Court; or
	(iii)	it is otherwise in the interests of justice that the relevant proceeding be determined by the Supreme Court of another State or of a Territory,
		the first court shall transfer the relevant proceeding to that other Supreme Court.
	(3)	Where —
	(a)	a proceeding (in this subsection referred to as the relevant proceeding) is pending in the Supreme Court of another State or of a Territory (in this subsection referred to as the first court); and
	(b)	it appears to the first court that —
	(i)	the relevant proceeding arises out of, or is related to, another proceeding pending in the Supreme Court of Western Australia and it is more appropriate that the relevant proceeding be determined by the Supreme Court of Western Australia;
	(ii)	having regard to —
	(A)	whether, in the opinion of the first court, apart from this Act and any law of the Commonwealth or another State relating to crossvesting of jurisdiction, the relevant proceeding or a substantial part of the relevant proceeding would have been incapable of being instituted in the first court and capable of being instituted in the Supreme Court of Western Australia;
	(B)	the extent to which, in the opinion of the first court, the matters for determination in the relevant proceeding are matters arising under or involving questions as to the application, interpretation or validity of a law of the State and not within the jurisdiction of the first court apart from this Act and any law of the Commonwealth or another State relating to crossvesting of jurisdiction; and
	(C)	the interests of justice,
		it is more appropriate that the relevant proceeding be determined by the Supreme Court of Western Australia; or
	(iii)	it is otherwise in the interests of justice that the relevant proceeding be determined by the Supreme Court of Western Australia,
		the first court shall transfer the relevant proceeding to the Supreme Court of Western Australia.
	(4)	Where —
	(a)	a proceeding (in this subsection referred to as the relevant proceeding) is pending in the Supreme Court or the State Family Court (in this subsection referred to as the first court); and
	(b)	it appears to the first court that —
	(i)	the relevant proceeding arises out of, or is related to, another proceeding pending in the other of the courts referred to in paragraph (a) and it is more appropriate that the relevant proceeding be determined by that other court;
	(ii)	having regard to —
	(A)	whether, in the opinion of the first court, apart from this Act and any law of the Commonwealth or another State relating to crossvesting of jurisdiction, the relevant proceeding or a substantial part of the relevant proceeding would have been incapable of being instituted in the first court and capable of being instituted in that other court; and
	(B)	the interests of justice,
		it is more appropriate that the relevant proceeding be determined by that other court; or
	(iii)	it is otherwise in the interests of justice that the relevant proceeding be determined by that other court,
		the first court shall transfer the relevant proceeding to that other court.
	(5)	Where —
	(a)	a proceeding (in this subsection referred to as the relevant proceeding) is pending in the Federal Court or the Family Court (in this subsection referred to as the first court); and
	(b)	it appears to the first court that —
	(i)	the relevant proceeding arises out of or is related to, another proceeding pending in the Supreme Court and it is more appropriate that the relevant proceeding be determined by the Supreme Court;
	(ii)	having regard to —
	(A)	whether, in the opinion of the first court, the relevant proceeding or a substantial part of it would have been incapable of being instituted in that court, apart from any law of the Commonwealth or another State relating to crossvesting of jurisdiction;
	(B)	whether, in the opinion of the first court, the relevant proceeding or a substantial part of it would have been capable of being instituted in the Supreme Court, apart from any law of the Commonwealth or another State relating to crossvesting of jurisdiction;
	(C)	the extent to which, in the opinion of the first court, the matters for determination in the relevant proceeding are matters arising under or involving questions as to the application, interpretation or validity of a law of the State and not within the jurisdiction of the first court apart from any law of the Commonwealth or another State relating to crossvesting of jurisdiction; and
	(D)	the interests of justice,
		it is more appropriate that the relevant proceeding be determined by the Supreme Court; or
	(iii)	it is otherwise in the interests of justice that the relevant proceeding be determined by the Supreme Court,
		the first court shall transfer the relevant proceeding to the Supreme Court.
	[(6)	deleted]
	(7)	Where —
	(a)	a court (in this subsection referred to as the first court) transfers a proceeding to another court under a law or laws relating to crossvesting of jurisdiction; and
	(b)	it appears to the first court that —
	(i)	there is another proceeding pending in the first court that arises out of, or is related to, the firstmentioned proceeding; and
	(ii)	it is in the interests of justice that the other proceeding be determined by the other court,
		the first court shall transfer the other proceeding to the other court.
	(8)	A court may transfer a proceeding under this section on the application of a party to the proceeding, of its own motion or on the application of the AttorneyGeneral of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory.
	(9)	A person who is entitled to practise as a legal practitioner, in a court has, if a proceeding (in this subsection referred to as the transferred proceeding) in that court is transferred to another court under a law or laws relating to crossvesting of jurisdiction, the same entitlement to practise in relation to —
	(a)	the transferred proceeding; and
	(b)	any other proceeding out of which the transferred proceeding arises or to which the transferred proceeding is related, being another proceeding that is to be determined together with the transferred proceeding,
		in the other court that the person would have if the other court were a federal court exercising federal jurisdiction.
	(10)	Nothing in this section confers on a court jurisdiction that the court would not otherwise have.
	[Section 5 amended: No. 32 of 2001 s. 24; No. 21 of 2008 s. 670; No. 9 of 2022 s. 424.]
6.	Special federal matters
	(1)	If —
	(a)	a matter for determination in a proceeding that is pending in the Supreme Court is a special federal matter; and
	(b)	the court does not make an order under subsection (3) in respect of the matter,
		the court shall transfer the proceeding in accordance with this section to the Federal Court or a court mentioned in subsection (2)(b).
	(1a)	However, the court is only required to transfer so much of the proceeding as is, in the opinion of the court, within the jurisdiction (including the accrued jurisdiction) of the Federal Court, or the court mentioned in subsection (2)(b), as the case may be.
	(2)	Where a proceeding or part of a proceeding is to be transferred under subsection (1) —
	(a)	if the special federal matter is a matter mentioned in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) of the definition of special federal matter in section 3(1) of the Commonwealth Act, the proceeding shall be transferred to the Federal Court; or
	(b)	if the special federal matter is a matter mentioned in paragraph (ba) of the definition of special federal matter in section 3(1) of the Commonwealth Act, the proceeding shall be transferred to whichever of —
	(i)	the Family Court;
	(ii)	the State Family Court; or
	(iii)	the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory,
		appears to the Supreme Court to be appropriate in the circumstances.
	(3)	The Supreme Court may order that the proceeding be determined by that court if it is satisfied that there are special reasons for doing so in the particular circumstances of the proceeding other than reasons relevant to the convenience of the parties.
	(4)	Before making an order under subsection (3), the court has to be satisfied that —
	(a)	a written notice specifying the nature of the special federal matter has been given to the AttorneyGeneral of the Commonwealth and the AttorneyGeneral of the State; and
	(b)	a reasonable time has elapsed since the giving of the notice for the AttorneyGeneral to consider whether submissions to the court should be made in relation to the proceeding.
	(5)	For the purposes of subsection (4), the court —
	(a)	may adjourn the proceeding for such time as the court thinks necessary and may make such order as to costs in relation to an adjournment as it thinks fit; and
	(b)	may direct a party to the proceeding to give a notice in accordance with that subsection.
	(6)	In considering whether there are special reasons for the purposes of subsection (3), the court shall —
	(a)	have regard to the general rule that special federal matters should be heard by the Federal Court or a court mentioned in subsection (2)(b), whichever is appropriate in the particular case; and
	(b)	take into account any submission made in relation to the proceeding by an AttorneyGeneral mentioned in subsection (4).
	(7)	Nothing in this section prevents the court granting urgent relief of an interlocutory nature if it is in the interests of justice to do so.
	(8)	If the Supreme Court —
	(a)	through inadvertence, determines a proceeding of the kind mentioned in subsection (1) without making an order under subsection (3); or
	(b)	determines a proceeding of the kind mentioned in subsection (1) having, through inadvertence, made an order under subsection (3) without a notice mentioned in subsection (4) being given,
		nothing in this section invalidates the decision of that court.
	(9)	This section does not apply to a proceeding by way of an appeal that is instituted in the Court of Appeal if the court the decision of which is the subject of the appeal had made an order under subsection (3), or under section 6(1) as in force before the commencement of section 5 of the Jurisdiction of Courts (Crossvesting) Amendment Act 1994, in relation to the special federal matter.
	[Section 6 inserted: No. 3 of 1994 s. 5; amended: No. 32 of 2001 s. 25; No. 45 of 2004 s. 37.]
6A.	Special federal matters: Commonwealth authorities or officers acting under the laws of States
	(1)	This section applies to a proceeding (in this section referred to as the federal matter proceeding) if —
	(a)	a matter for determination in the proceeding is covered by paragraph (c) or (e) of the definition of special federal matter in section 3(1) of the Jurisdiction of Courts (Crossvesting) Act 1987 of the Commonwealth;
	(b)	the matter for determination in the proceeding involves or relates to the exercise, or purported or proposed exercise, of functions or powers conferred on a Commonwealth authority, or officer of the Commonwealth, by an enactment (in this subsection referred to as the State enactment) referred to in paragraph (ca) or (cb) of the definition of enactment in section 3(1) of the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 of the Commonwealth; and
	(c)	the matter for determination in the proceeding arises out of, or relates to, another proceeding (in this section referred to as the State matter proceeding) pending in any court of this State —
	(i)	that arises, or a substantial part of which arises, under the State enactment or a corresponding enactment of another State; and
	(ii)	none of the matters for determination in which are covered by paragraph (c) or (e) of the definition of special federal matter in section 3(1) of the Jurisdiction of Courts (Crossvesting) Act 1987 of the Commonwealth,
		regardless of which proceeding was commenced first.
	(2)	If —
	(a)	the federal matter proceeding is pending in the Federal Court or the Family Court; and
	(b)	having regard to the interests of justice, including the desirability of related proceedings being heard in the same jurisdiction, the Federal Court or the Family Court considers it appropriate to transfer the proceeding to the Supreme Court,
		the Federal Court or the Family Court may transfer the proceeding to the Supreme Court, and section 5(5) does not apply to the federal matter proceeding.
	(3)	If —
	(a)	the federal matter proceeding is pending in the Supreme Court; and
	(b)	the State matter proceeding is pending in any court of this State,
		neither section 5(1) nor section 6 applies to require the Supreme Court to transfer the federal matter proceeding to the Federal Court or the Family Court, but the Supreme Court may do so if it considers that to be appropriate, having regard to the interests of justice, including the desirability of related proceedings being heard in the same jurisdiction.
	(4)	Nothing in this section confers on a court jurisdiction that the court would not otherwise have.
	(5)	The fact that references in this section to the interests of justice include the desirability of related proceedings being heard in the same jurisdiction does not of itself mean that references to the interests of justice elsewhere in this Act do not include that matter.
	(6)	In this section —
	Commonwealth authority means an authority or other body (whether incorporated or not) that is established or continued in existence by or under an Act of the Commonwealth;
	officer of the Commonwealth has the same meaning as in section 75(v) of the Constitution of the Commonwealth.
	[Section 6A inserted: No. 32 of 2001 s. 26; amended: No. 8 of 2009 s. 82.]
7.	Institution and hearing of appeals
	(1)	An appeal shall not be instituted from a decision of a single judge of the Federal Court or the Family Court to the Court of Appeal.
	(2)	An appeal shall not be instituted from the Federal Court or the Family Court to the other of those courts.
	(3)	Where it appears that the only matters for determination in a proceeding by way of an appeal from a decision of a single judge of the Supreme Court are matters other than matters arising under an Act specified in the Schedule to the Commonwealth Act, that proceeding shall be instituted only in, and shall be determined only by, the Court of Appeal.
	(4)	An appeal shall not be instituted from a decision of a court of summary jurisdiction to the Supreme Court if an appeal lies from that decision to the State Family Court.
	(5)	Subject to subsections (7) and (8), where it appears that a matter for determination in a proceeding by way of an appeal from a decision of a single judge of the Supreme Court (not being a proceeding to which subsection (6) applies) is a matter arising under an Act specified in the Schedule referred to in subsection (3), that proceeding shall be instituted only in, and shall be determined only by —
	(a)	the Full Court of the Federal Court or of the Family Court, as the case requires; or
	(b)	with special leave of the High Court, the High Court.
	(6)	A proceeding by way of an appeal from a decision of a judge of a State Family Court, being a proceeding involving the determination of —
	(a)	a matter arising under an Act specified in the Schedule referred to in subsection (3); and
	(b)	another matter,
		may be dealt with as if no matter for determination in the proceeding were a matter arising under an Act specified in that Schedule.
	(7)	Where —
	(a)	the Court of Appeal commences to hear a proceeding by way of an appeal; and
	(b)	before the Court determines the proceeding, it appears to the Court that the proceeding is a proceeding to which subsection (5) applies,
		the Court shall, unless the interests of justice require that the Court proceed to determine the proceeding, transfer the proceeding to the Full Court of the Federal Court or of the Family Court, as the case requires.
	(8)	Where the Court of Appeal —
	(a)	determines a proceeding to which subsection (5) applies as mentioned in subsection (7); or
	(b)	through inadvertence, determines a proceeding to which subsection (5) applies,
		nothing in this section invalidates the decision of that Court.
	[Section 7 amended: No. 3 of 1994 s. 6(b); No. 45 of 2004 s. 37.]
8.	Orders by Supreme Court
	(1)	Where —
	(a)	a proceeding (in this subsection referred to as the relevant proceeding) is pending in —
	(i)	a court, other than the Supreme Court, of the State; or
	(ii)	a tribunal established by or under an Act;
		and
	(b)	it appears to the Supreme Court that —
	(i)	the relevant proceeding arises out of, or is related to, another proceeding pending in the Federal Court, the Family Court or the Supreme Court of another State or of a Territory and, if an order is made under this subsection in relation to the relevant proceeding, there would be grounds on which that other proceeding could be transferred to the Supreme Court; or
	(ii)	an order should be made under this subsection in relation to the relevant proceeding so that consideration can be given to whether the relevant proceeding should be transferred to another court,
		the Supreme Court may, on the application of a party to the relevant proceeding or of its own motion, make an order removing the relevant proceeding to the Supreme Court.
	(2)	Where an order is made under subsection (1) in relation to a proceeding, this Act applies in relation to the proceeding as if it were a proceeding pending in the Supreme Court.
	(3)	Where a proceeding is removed to the Supreme Court in accordance with an order made under subsection (1), the Supreme Court may, if the Supreme Court considers it appropriate to do so, remit the proceeding to the court or tribunal from which the proceeding was removed.
9.	Exercise of jurisdiction pursuant to crossvesting laws
		The Supreme Court or the State Family Court —
	(a)	may exercise jurisdiction (whether original or appellate) conferred on that court by a provision of this Act or of a law of the Commonwealth or a State relating to crossvesting of jurisdiction; and
	(b)	may hear and determine a proceeding transferred to that court under such a provision.
10.	Transfer of matters arising under Division 1 or 1A of Part V of the Trade Practices Act
		Where —
	(a)	a proceeding is pending in the Supreme Court or the Supreme Court of another State or of a Territory;
	(b)	a matter for determination in the proceeding is a matter arising under Division 1 or 1A of Part V of the Trade Practices Act 1974 of the Commonwealth;
	(c)	no matter for determination in the proceeding is a special federal matter;
	(d)	the proceeding is not a proceeding by way of an appeal from a judgment of a court; and
	(e)	a court of the State, other than the Supreme Court, has jurisdiction with respect to all of the matters for determination in the proceeding,
		the court referred to in paragraph (a) may, on the application of a party to the proceeding or of its own motion, transfer the proceeding to the court referred to in paragraph (e).
	[Section 10 amended: No. 32 of 2001 s. 27.]
11.	Conduct of proceedings
	(1)	Where it appears to a court that the court will, or will be likely to, in determining a matter for determination in a proceeding, be exercising jurisdiction conferred by this Act or by a law of the Commonwealth or a State relating to crossvesting of jurisdiction —
	(a)	subject to paragraphs (b) and (c), the court shall, in determining that matter, apply the law in force in the State or Territory in which the court is sitting (including choice of law rules);
	(b)	subject to paragraph (c), if that matter is a right of action arising under a written law of another State or Territory, the court shall, in determining that matter, apply the written and unwritten law of that other State or Territory; and
	(c)	the rules of evidence and procedure to be applied in dealing with that matter shall be such as the court considers appropriate in the circumstances, being rules that are applied in a superior court in Australia or in an external Territory.
	[(2)	deleted]
	(3)	Where a proceeding is transferred or removed to a court (in this subsection referred to as the transferee court) from another court (in this subsection referred to as the transferor court), the transferee court shall deal with the proceeding as if, subject to any order of the transferee court, the steps that had been taken for the purposes of the proceeding in the transferor court (including the making of an order), or similar steps, had been taken in the transferee court.
	[Section 11 amended: No. 32 of 2001 s. 28.]
12.	Orders as to costs
		Where a proceeding is transferred or removed to a court, that court may make an order as to costs that relate to the conduct of the proceeding before the transfer or removal if those costs have not already been dealt with by another court.
13.	Limitation on appeals
		An appeal does not lie from a decision of a court —
	(a)	in relation to the transfer or removal of a proceeding under this Act; or
	(b)	as to which rules of evidence and procedure are to be applied pursuant to section 11(1).
14.	Enforcement and effect of judgments
	[(1)	deleted]
	(2)	A judgment of the Supreme Court that is given, in whole or in part, in the exercise of jurisdiction conferred by a law or laws relating to crossvesting of jurisdiction is enforceable in the State as if the judgment had been given entirely in the exercise of the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court apart from any such law.
	(3)	Where —
	(a)	a provision of a law of the State (not being a law relating to the enforcement of judgments) refers to a thing done by the Supreme Court; and
	(b)	that thing is done by another court in exercise of jurisdiction conferred by this Act,
		the reference in that provision to the Supreme Court shall be read as a reference to that other court.
	[Section 14 amended: No. 32 of 2001 s. 29.]
15.	Construction of Act to be subject to legislative power of State
		This Act shall be read and construed so as not to exceed the legislative power of the State, to the intent that if this Act would, but for this section, have been construed as being in excess of that power, it shall nevertheless be valid to the extent to which it is not in excess of that power.
16.	Suspension or cessation of operation of Act
	(1)	Subject to subsection (2), the Governor may, if a proclamation has not been made under subsection (4), by proclamation declare that the operation of this Act is suspended from a day (being a day not earlier than 3 years after the commencement of this Act) specified in the proclamation and, where such a proclamation is made, this Act ceases to be in force from that day until a proclamation is made under subsection (3) revoking the firstmentioned proclamation.
	(2)	The Governor shall not make a proclamation under subsection (1) having effect from a particular day unless the Governor is satisfied that the Attorney General has given notice of his intention to seek the making of such a proclamation to the Commonwealth and to each other State (other than a State in relation to which a proclamation under subsection (5) has been made) not less than 6 months before that day.
	(3)	Where the Governor has made a proclamation under subsection (1), the Governor may, by proclamation revoke the firstmentioned proclamation.
	(4)	Where the Governor is satisfied that the Acts of the Commonwealth and other States relating to crossvesting of jurisdiction are not effective to invest the Supreme Court of Western Australia with, or confer on that court, jurisdiction of the Federal Court, the Family Court or a Supreme Court of another State or of a Territory, the Governor may, by proclamation declare that this Act shall, on a day specified in the proclamation, cease to be in force and, where such a proclamation is made, this Act ceases to be in force on that day.
	(5)	Where the Governor is satisfied that an Act of the Commonwealth or another State relating to crossvesting of jurisdiction has been repealed, rendered inoperative, suspended or altered in a substantial manner, the Governor may, by proclamation declare that this Act shall, on a day specified in the proclamation, cease to be in force in relation to the Commonwealth or a Territory or in relation to that State and, where such a proclamation is made, this Act ceases to be in force in relation to the Commonwealth or a Territory or that State on that day.
	(6)	Where —
	(a)	the Governor has made a proclamation under subsection (5) in relation to the Commonwealth or a Territory or a State; and
	(b)	the Governor is satisfied that there is in force an Act of the Commonwealth or that State relating to crossvesting of jurisdiction, being an Act in terms substantially corresponding to the terms of this Act,
		the Governor may, by proclamation, declare that this Act again applies in relation to the Commonwealth or the Territory or that State from a day specified in the proclamation and, where such a proclamation is made, this Act applies in relation to the Commonwealth or Territory or that State on and after that day.


Notes
This is a compilation of the Jurisdiction of Courts (Cross-vesting) Act 1987 and includes amendments made by other written laws. For provisions that have come into operation, and for information about any reprints, see the compilation table 1.
Compilation table
Short title
Number and year
Assent
Commencement
Jurisdiction of Courts (Cross-vesting) Act 1987
68 of 1987
22 Nov 1987
s. 1: 22 Nov 1987;
Act other than s. 1: 1 Jul 1988 (see s. 1(2) and Gazette 24 Jun 1988 p. 1995)
Jurisdiction of Courts (Cross-vesting) Amendment Act 1994 2
3 of 1994
11 Apr 1994
s. 1 and 2: 11 Apr 1994;
Act other than s. 1 and 2: 26 Sep 1998 (see s. 2 and Gazette 25 Sep 1998 p. 5295)
Corporations (Ancillary Provisions) Act 2001 s. 29
8 of 2001
28 Jun 2001
Operative immediately before the beginning of 15 Jul 2001 (see s. 2 and Cwlth Gazette 13 Jul 2001 No. S285)
Acts Amendment (Federal Courts and Tribunals) Act 2001 Pt. 6
32 of 2001
21 Dec 2001
21 Dec 2001 (see s. 2(1))
Reprint of the Jurisdiction of Courts (Cross-vesting) Act 1987 as at 8 Feb 2002
(includes amendments listed above)
Acts Amendment (Court of Appeal) Act 2004 s. 37
45 of 2004
9 Nov 2004
1 Feb 2005 (see s. 2 and Gazette 14 Jan 2005 p. 163)
Legal Profession Act 2008 s. 670
21 of 2008
27 May 2008
1 Mar 2009 (see s. 2(b) and Gazette 27 Feb 2009 p. 511)
Statutes (Repeals and Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2009 s. 82
8 of 2009
21 May 2009
22 May 2009 (see s. 2(b))
Reprint 2: The Jurisdiction of Courts (Cross-vesting) Act 1987 as at 24 Jul 2009
(includes amendments listed above)
Standardisation of Formatting Act 2010 s. 50
19 of 2010
28 Jun 2010
11 Sep 2010 (see s. 2(b) and Gazette 10 Sep 2010 p. 4341)
Legal Profession Uniform Law Application Act 2022 s. 424
9 of 2022
14 Apr 2022
1 Jul 2022 (see s. 2(c) and SL 2022/113 cl. 2)
Other notes
1	The Federal Courts (State Jurisdiction) Act 1999 s. 21 had not come into operation when it was deleted by the Acts Amendment (Federal Courts and Tribunals) Act 2001 s. 16.
2	The Jurisdiction of Courts (Cross-vesting) Amendment Act 1994 s. 7 reads as follows:

7.	Application
		Despite the amendments of the principal Act made by this Part, the principal Act as in force immediately before the commencement of section 5 of this Act continues to apply in relation to a proceeding pending in a court to which section 6 of the principal Act applied before that commencement.



Defined terms

[This is a list of terms defined and the provisions where they are defined.  The list is not part of the law.]
	Defined term	Provision(s)
Commonwealth authority	6A(6)
Family Court	3(1)
Federal Court	3(1)
federal matter proceeding	6A(1)
first court	5(2), (3), (4), (5) and (7)
Full Court	3(1)
judgment	3(1)
officer of the Commonwealth	6A(6)
party	3(1)
proceeding	3(1)
relevant proceeding	5(1), (2), (3), (4) and (5), 8(1)
special federal matter	3(1)
State	3(1)
State Family Court	3(1)
State matter	3(1)
State matter proceeding	6A(1)
Territory	3(1)
the Commonwealth Act	3(1)
the State enactment	6A(1)
transferee court	11(3)
transferor court	11(3)
transferred proceeding	5(9)

