THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                 INTERNATIONAL FINANCE
                   CORPORATION ACT 1968

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                2020 Ed.

         International Finance
         Corporation Act 1968

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

     1.  Short title
     2.  Interpretation
     3.  Acceptance of Agreement
     4.  Financial provisions
     5.  Power to raise loans
     6.  Receipts
     7.  Certain provisions of Agreement to have force of law
     8.  Power to make rules
         The Schedule — Provisions of Agreement having the force of

                               law

An Act to implement the International Agreement for the
  establishment and operation of the International Finance
  Corporation and to enable Singapore to become a member
  thereof and for matters connected therewith.

                                                             [15 August 1968]

Short title

 1. This Act is the International Finance Corporation Act 1968.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “Agreement” means the Articles of Agreement opened for
         signature at Washington on 25 May 1955 (as may be
         subsequently amended) providing for the establishment and
         operation of the international body known as the
         International Finance Corporation;

         1

                                                  31.12.2021
   International Finance

2  Corporation Act 1968   2020 Ed.

   “Corporation” means the International Finance Corporation
      established under the Agreement.

Acceptance of Agreement

 3. The President is hereby authorised by instrument under his hand
to empower such person as may be named in the instrument, on behalf
of the Government —

       (a) to sign the Agreement; and

       (b) to deposit with the International Bank for Reconstruction
            and Development an instrument of acceptance stating that
            the Government has accepted without reservation in
            accordance with the laws of Singapore the Agreement
            and the terms and conditions of the Resolution by the
            Board of Governors of the Corporation, dated 8 March
            1968, providing for the admission of Singapore to
            membership, and has taken all steps necessary to enable
            the Government to carry out all its obligations under the
            Agreement and the said Resolution.

Financial provisions

 4. There shall be charged and paid out of the Consolidated Fund all
sums required for the purpose of making payments on behalf of the
Government —

       (a) under section 3 of Article II of the Agreement (which
            provides for the subscription of shares of stock of the
            Corporation); and

       (b) under section 4 of Article V of the Agreement (which
            relates to the cessation of membership of the Corporation).
                      International Finance

2020 Ed.              Corporation Act 1968   3

Power to raise loans

 5. For the purposes of providing any sums required for making any
payments to the Corporation, the Minister with the President’s
concurrence under Article 144(1)(b) of the Constitution may, on
behalf of the Government, raise loans by the creation and issue of
securities bearing such rates of interests and subject to such
conditions as to repayment, redemption or otherwise as he may
think fit, and the principal and interest of those securities and any
expenses incurred in connection with their issue shall be charged on
and paid out of the Consolidated Fund.

Receipts

 6. All sums received by or on behalf of the Government from the
Corporation shall be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

Certain provisions of Agreement to have force of law

 7.—(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written law, the provisions of the Agreement set out in the Schedule
shall have the force of law:

      Provided that nothing in section 9 of Article VI of the
Agreement shall be construed as —

       (a) entitling the Corporation to import into Singapore goods
            free of any duty of customs without any restriction on their
            subsequent sale therein;

       (b) conferring on the Corporation any exemption from taxes or
            duties which form part of the price of goods sold; or

       (c) conferring on the Corporation any exemption from taxes or
            duties which are no more than charges for services
            rendered.

 (2) The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, amend the
Schedule in conformity with any amendments to the provisions of the
Agreement set out therein which may hereafter be duly made and
adopted.

                                             31.12.2021
                     International Finance

4                    Corporation Act 1968   2020 Ed.

Power to make rules

 8.—(1) The Minister may make rules for carrying out or giving
effect to the provisions of this Act.

 (2) Such rules shall be presented to Parliament as soon as possible
after publication.

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                            Section 7

       PROVISIONS OF AGREEMENT HAVING THE FORCE OF LAW
                                        ARTICLE VI

                    STATUS, IMMUNITIES AND PRIVILEGES

Section 2. Status of the Corporation

 The Corporation shall possess full juridical personality and, in particular, the
capacity —

         (i) to contract;
        (ii) to acquire and dispose of immovable and movable property;
       (iii) to institute legal proceedings.

Section 3. Position of the Corporation with Regard to Judicial Process

 Actions may be brought against the Corporation only in a court of competent
jurisdiction in the territories of a member in which the Corporation has an office,
has appointed an agent for the purpose of accepting service or notice of process, or
has issued or guaranteed securities. No actions shall, however, be brought by
members or persons acting for or deriving claims from members. The property and
assets of the Corporation shall, wheresoever located and by whomsoever held, be
immune from all forms of seizure, attachment or execution before the delivery of
final judgment against the Corporation.

Section 4. Immunity of Assets from Seizure

 Property and assets of the Corporation, wherever located and by whomsoever
held, shall be immune from search, requisition, confiscation, expropriation or any
other form of seizure by executive or legislative action.

Section 5. Immunity of Archives

 The archives of the Corporation shall be inviolable.
          International Finance

2020 Ed.  Corporation Act 1968                  5

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

Section 6. Freedom of Assets from Restrictions

 To the extent necessary to carry out the operations provided for in this Agreement
and subject to the provisions of Article III, section 5, and the other provisions of
this Agreement, all property and assets of the Corporation shall be free from
restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature.

Section 7. Privilege for Communications

 The official communications of the Corporation shall be accorded by each
member the same treatment that it accords to the official communications of other
members.

Section 8. Immunities and Privileges of Officers and Employees

 All Governors, Directors, Alternates, officers and employees of the
Corporation —

         (i) shall be immune from legal process with respect to acts performed by
             them in their official capacity;

        (ii) not being local nationals, shall be accorded the same immunities from
             immigration restrictions, alien registration requirements and national
             service obligations and the same facilities as regards exchange
             restrictions as are accorded by members to the representatives,
             officials, and employees of comparable rank of other members;

       (iii) shall be granted the same treatment in respect of travelling facilities as
             is accorded by members to representatives, officials and employees of
             comparable rank of other members.

Section 9. Immunities from Taxation

(a) The Corporation, its assets, property, income and its operations and
     transactions authorised by this Agreement, shall be immune from all
     taxation and from all customs duties. The Corporation shall also be
     immune from liability for the collection or payment of any tax or duty.

(b) No tax shall be levied on or in respect of salaries and emoluments paid
     by the Corporation to Directors, Alternates, officials or employees of
     the Corporation who are not local citizens, local subjects, or other local
     nationals.

(c) No taxation of any kind shall be levied on any obligation or security
     issued by the Corporation (including any dividend or interest thereon)
     by whomsoever held —

                                                31.12.2021
                    International Finance

6                   Corporation Act 1968      2020 Ed.

                    THE SCHEDULE — continued

   (i) which discriminates against such obligation or security solely
       because it is issued by the Corporation; or

   (ii) if the sole jurisdictional basis for such taxation is the place or
        currency in which it is issued, made payable or paid, or the
        location of any office or place of business maintained by the
        Corporation.

   (d) No taxation of any kind shall be levied on any obligation or security
        guaranteed by the Corporation (including any dividend or interest
        thereon) by whomsoever held —

   (i) which discriminates against such obligation or security solely
       because it is guaranteed by the Corporation; or

   (ii) if the sole jurisdictional basis for such taxation is the location
        of any office or place of business maintained by the
        Corporation.

Section 11. Waiver

 The Corporation in its discretion may waive any of the privileges and immunities
conferred under this Article to such extent and upon such conditions as it may
determine.
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

                INTERNATIONAL FINANCE
                 CORPORATION ACT 1968

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 20 of 1968 — International Finance Corporation Act, 1968

Bill                  : 32/1968

First Reading         : 11 July 1968

Second and Third Readings : 31 July 1968

Commencement          : 15 August 1968

2. 1970 Revised Edition — International Finance Corporation Act
                                    (Chapter 70)

Operation             : 1 April 1971

3. 1985 Revised Edition — International Finance Corporation Act
                                    (Chapter 144)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

4. Act 11 of 1991 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1991
   (Amendments made by section 2 read with item (14) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill                  : 4/1991

First Reading         : 3 January 1991

Second Reading        : 14 January 1991

Notice of Amendments  : 14 January 1991

Third Reading         : 14 January 1991

Commencement          : 30 November 1991 (section 2 read
                            with item (14) of the Schedule)

5. 2013 Revised Edition — International Finance Corporation Act
                                    (Chapter 144)

Operation             : 31 December 2013

                                          31.12.2021
                             ii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
