  THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
CRIMINAL LAW (TEMPORARY PROVISIONS) ACT 1955

                                                2020 REVISED EDITION

                     This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
          including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                                Prepared and Published by
                                         THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                             UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                               THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                                                         2020 Ed.

Criminal Law (Temporary
   Provisions) Act 1955

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2
 MISCELLANEOUS OFFENCES RELATING TO PUBLIC SAFETY

3. Supplies
4. Making and possession of subversive documents

                                        PART 3

 ILLEGAL STRIKES AND LOCK-OUTS IN ESSENTIAL SERVICES

 5. Interpretation of this Part
 6. Restrictions on strikes and lock-outs
 7. Illegal strikes and lock-outs
 8. Lock-out or strike consequent on illegal strike or lock-out
 9. Penalty for illegal strikes and lock-outs
10. Penalty for instigation
11. Penalty for giving financial aid to illegal strikes or lock‑outs
12. Protection of persons refusing to take part in illegal strikes or

         lock‑outs

                                        PART 4

                                      GENERAL

13. Dispersal of assemblies
14. Powers of search and boarding vessels
15. Disposal of subversive documents
16. Failure to report offences

                                                      1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Criminal Law (Temporary

2020 Ed.  Provisions) Act 1955                                             2

Section   Attempt to commit offences and assisting offenders
   17.    Offences arrestable and non-bailable
   18.    Offences by companies, etc.
   19.    Penalties
   20.    Jurisdiction of District Courts
   21.    Admission of statements in evidence
   22.    Trials may be in private
   23.    Power to prohibit publication of witnesses’ names, etc.
   24.    Disposal of articles in possession of authorities
   25.    Publicity of orders
   26.    Interpretation of sections 27A, 27B and 27C
   27.    Taking of photographs, finger impressions, body samples, etc.,
   27A.   from person arrested, detained or subject to police supervision
          Further provisions for taking of body samples
   27B.   Retention of photographs, finger impressions, particulars and
   27C.   body samples taken
          Power to amend Schedules
   28.    Effect of this Act
   29.

          PART 5

          DETENTION

30.       Power of Minister to make orders
31.       Orders to be referred to advisory committee and subject to
          confirmation by President
32.       Power to substitute order for police supervision
33.       Obligations on person subject to supervision
34.       [Repealed]
35.       Double penalties for crimes of violence
36.       [Repealed]
37.       [Repealed]
38.       Extension of orders
38A.      Revocation of orders
39.       Constitution of advisory committees
40.       Powers and procedure of advisory committees
41.       Disclosure of information
42.       Manner of detention and powers to order removal
43.       Temporary release of detainees to engage in employment
44.       Power to detain suspected persons
45.       Duty to arrest persons ordered to be detained

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
         Criminal Law (Temporary

3        Provisions) Act 1955                                             2020 Ed.

Section  Power to enter and search
   46.   Officers of Central Narcotics Bureau to exercise powers
   47.   conferred on police officers under sections 44, 45 and 46, etc.
         Powers of Public Prosecutor
   48.   Rules
   49.   First Schedule
         Second Schedule — Reportable Offences
         Third Schedule — Specified Laws
         Fourth Schedule — Activities of a criminal nature

An Act to make temporary provisions for the maintenance of public
  order, the control of supplies by sea to Singapore, and the
  prevention of strikes and lock‑outs in essential services.

                                                            [21 October 1955]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1.—(1) This Act is the Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions)
Act 1955.

                                                                                                         [S 40/2022]

 (2) This Act continues in force for a period of 5 years starting on
21 October 2024.

                                                                               [Act 18 of 2024 wef 21/10/2024]

 (3) The expiry of this Act shall not affect the operation thereof as
respects things previously done or omitted to be done.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the subject or context otherwise requires —

      “authorised officer” means —

              (a) any police officer or officer of customs;

              (b) any person holding a commission in the Singapore
                   Armed Forces; or

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Criminal Law (Temporary

2020 Ed.  Provisions) Act 1955                                     4

          (c) any authority or any person by name or office
              appointed by the Minister to be an authorised
              officer for the purpose of exercising all or any of
              the powers conferred upon an authorised officer by
              this Act;

“document” means any matter expressed or described upon any
   substance by means of letters, figures or marks, or by more
   than one of these means, and includes any banner, emblem or
   other insignia;

“explosive substance” shall be deemed to include any materials
   for making any explosive substance and any bomb, grenade,
   apparatus, machine, implement or material used or intended
   to be used or adapted for causing or aiding in causing any
   explosion in or with any explosive substance and any part of
   such bomb, grenade, apparatus, machine or implement;

“police officer” includes any member of the Special
   Constabulary constituted under Part 8 of the Police Force
   Act 2004;

“subversive document” means any document which contains —

          (a) any subversive matter;

          (b) any propaganda or matter supporting, propagating or
               advocating acts prejudicial to the public safety in
               Singapore or the maintenance of public order therein
               or inciting to violence therein or counselling
               disobedience to the law thereof or to any lawful
               order therein; or

          (c) any reference to or account of any collection of, or
              any request or demand for, any subscription,
              contribution or donation, whether in money or in
              kind, or any request or demand for supplies for the
              benefit, directly or indirectly, or the use of persons
              who intend to or are about to act or have acted in a
              manner prejudicial to the public safety in Singapore
              or to the maintenance of public order therein or who

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
   Criminal Law (Temporary

5  Provisions) Act 1955     2020 Ed.

   incite to violence therein or counsel disobedience to
   the law thereof or any lawful order therein,

   and includes any document indicating a connection,
   association or affiliation with any unlawful society;

   “supplies” includes money, food, drink, clothing, rubber, tin or
      other valuable commodity, any medicine or drug or other
      medical supplies, and any material or instrument or part
      thereof for printing, typewriting or duplicating words or
      objects in visible form.

                                    PART 2

    MISCELLANEOUS OFFENCES RELATING TO PUBLIC
                                   SAFETY

Supplies

 3.—(1) Any person who demands, collects or receives any supplies
from any other person in circumstances which raise a reasonable
presumption that he intends or is about to act or has recently acted in a
manner prejudicial to public safety in Singapore or the maintenance
of public order therein or that the supplies so demanded, collected or
received are intended for the use of any person who that
firstmentioned person knows or has reason to believe intends, or is
about, so to act, or has recently so acted, shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 10 years.

 (2) Any person who is found in possession of any supplies for
which he cannot satisfactorily account in circumstances which raise a
reasonable presumption that the supplies are intended for the use of
any person who that firstmentioned person knows or has reason to
believe intends, or is about, to act, or has recently acted, in a manner
prejudicial to public safety in Singapore or the maintenance of public
order therein, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 7 years.

 (3) Any person who provides, directly or indirectly, any supplies to
any other person in circumstances which raise a reasonable
presumption that the firstmentioned person knows or has reason to

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Criminal Law (Temporary

2020 Ed.  Provisions) Act 1955                                     6

believe that other person intends, or is about, to act, or has recently
acted, in a manner prejudicial to public safety in Singapore or the
maintenance of public order therein, or that the supplies so provided
are intended for the use of any person who intends, or is about, so to
act, or has recently so acted, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
7 years.

 (4) No person shall be convicted of any offence under
subsection (3) if he proves that prior to being charged with or
accused of that offence by a police officer or a person in authority he
voluntarily gave full information of the offence to a police officer.

 (5) In any charge of any offence under any of the provisions of this
section, it shall not be necessary to specify the person or persons from
whom any supplies were demanded, collected or received or to whom
any supplies were provided.

Making and possession of subversive documents

 4.—(1) Any person who, without lawful excuse, makes, causes to
be made, carries or has in his possession or under his control any
subversive document shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 10 years.

 (2) Every document purporting to be a subversive document shall
be deemed to be a subversive document until the contrary is proved.

 (3) Where, in any prosecution under this section, it is proved that a
person made, was carrying or had in his possession or under his
control a subversive document, he shall be deemed to have known the
nature and contents of the document.

 (4) No person shall be convicted of an offence under this section if
he proves to the satisfaction of the court —

       (a) that he was not aware of the nature or contents of the
            subversive document which he made, caused to be made,
            was carrying or had in his possession or under his control;
            and

       (b) that he made, caused to be made, was carrying or had the
            subversive document in his possession or under his control

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
   Criminal Law (Temporary

7  Provisions) Act 1955                                     2020 Ed.

   in such circumstances that at no time did he have
   reasonable cause to believe or suspect that the document
   was a subversive document.

                                    PART 3

     ILLEGAL STRIKES AND LOCK-OUTS IN ESSENTIAL
                                  SERVICES

Interpretation of this Part

 5. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Commissioner” means the Commissioner for Labour, and
         includes any Deputy or Assistant Commissioner for Labour;

      “essential service” means any service, business, trade,
         undertaking, manufacture or calling included in Part 1 of
         the First Schedule;

      “lock-out” means the closing of a place of employment or the
         suspension of work, or the refusal by an employer to continue
         to employ any number of persons employed by him in
         consequence of a trade dispute, done with a view to
         compelling those persons, or to aid another employer in
         compelling persons employed by him, to accept terms or
         conditions of or affecting employment;

      “public health service” means —

              (a) any hospital, clinic, sanatorium or other institution
                   for the care of the sick; and

              (b) any system of public conservancy or sanitation;

      “strike” means the cessation of work by a body of persons
         employed in any essential service acting in combination, or a
         concerted refusal or a refusal under a common understanding
         of a number of persons who are or who have been so
         employed to continue to work or to accept employment;

      “workman” means any person who has entered into or works
         under a contract with an employer, whether the contract be
         for manual labour, clerical work or otherwise, be expressed

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Criminal Law (Temporary

2020 Ed.  Provisions) Act 1955                                     8

          or implied, oral or in writing, and whether it be a contract of
          service or of apprenticeship or a contract personally to
          execute any work, and includes, for the purposes of any
          proceedings under this Part in relation to a trade dispute, a
          workman discharged during that dispute.

Restrictions on strikes and lock-outs

 6.—(1) No workman employed in any of the following essential
services shall go on strike:

       (a) water services;

       (b) gas services;

       (c) electricity services.

 (2) No workman employed in any essential service, not being an
essential service specified in subsection (1), shall go on strike —

       (a) unless at least 14 days before striking he has given to his
            employer notice of intention to strike as provided by this
            section;

       (b) before the date of striking specified in the notice of
            intention to strike; or

       (c) during the pendency of any proceedings.

 (3) No employer shall lock out any workman engaged in any
essential service specified in subsection (1).

 (4) No employer shall lock out any workman engaged in any
essential service, not being an essential service specified in
subsection (1) —

       (a) unless at least 14 days before locking out he has given to
            his workmen notice of intention to lock out as provided by
            this section;

       (b) before the date of locking out specified in the notice of
            intention to lock out; or

       (c) during the pendency of any proceedings.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
   Criminal Law (Temporary

9  Provisions) Act 1955                                     2020 Ed.

   (5) The notice referred to in subsection (2) shall —

   (a) be delivered to the employer or his manager;

   (b) be signed by not less than 7 workmen employed by the
        employer and concerned in the strike, or by
        7 representatives of the trade union of which the
        workmen are members; and

   (c) be in accordance with Form 1 set out in Part 2 of the
       First Schedule.

   (6) The notice referred to in subsection (4) shall —

   (a) be signed by the employer;

   (b) be delivered to a representative of the workmen concerned
        or to an officer of the trade union to which the workmen
        belong; and

   (c) be in accordance with Form 2 set out in Part 2 of the
       First Schedule.

 (7) The employer shall cause a copy of the notice referred to in
subsection (4) to be posted at 3 conspicuous places in the place of
work where the workmen affected thereby are ordinarily employed.

 (8) A copy of every notice which is given under subsection (2) or
(4) shall be delivered to the Commissioner within 3 days after the
notice is given.

 (9) Every notice which is given under subsection (2) or (4) shall
expire at the end of 30 days from the date of the notice.

   (10) In this section, “proceedings” means —

   (a) conciliation proceedings directed by the Commissioner
        under section 21(2) of the Industrial Relations Act 1960 or
        by the Minister under section 23(1) of that Act;

   (b) proceedings before an Industrial Arbitration Court in
        respect of a trade dispute of which that Court has
        cognizance by virtue of section 31 of the Industrial
        Relations Act 1960; or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Criminal Law (Temporary

2020 Ed.  Provisions) Act 1955                                     10

          (c) proceedings before a board of inquiry appointed by the
              Minister under section 74(1) of the Industrial Relations
              Act 1960.

Illegal strikes and lock-outs

 7. A strike or lock-out shall be deemed to be illegal if it is
commenced, declared or continued in contravention of section 6, or
of any provision of any other written law.

Lock-out or strike consequent on illegal strike or lock-out

 8. A lock-out declared in consequence of an illegal strike or a strike
declared in consequence of an illegal lock-out shall not be deemed to
be illegal.

Penalty for illegal strikes and lock-outs

 9.—(1) Any workman who commences, continues or otherwise
acts in furtherance of a strike which is illegal under this Part shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (2) Any employer who commences, continues or otherwise acts in
furtherance of a lock-out which is illegal under this Part shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Penalty for instigation

 10. Any person who —

       (a) instigates or incites others to take part in, or otherwise acts
            in furtherance of, a strike or lock-out which is illegal under
            this Part; or

       (b) instigates or incites others to withhold their labour or
            services knowing or having reason to believe that the
            probable consequences of that action will be to endanger
            human life or the efficient operation of any public health
            service or cause serious bodily injury or expose valuable

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Criminal Law (Temporary

11  Provisions) Act 1955                                     2020 Ed.

    property whether real or personal to destruction or serious
    damage,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Penalty for giving financial aid to illegal strikes or lock‑outs

 11. Any person who knowingly expends or applies any money in
direct furtherance or support of any illegal strike or lock‑out shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Protection of persons refusing to take part in illegal strikes or
lock‑outs

 12. No person refusing to take part or to continue to take part in any
strike or lock‑out which is by this Part declared to be illegal shall be,
by reason of the refusal, subject to expulsion from any trade union or
society, or to any fine or penalty, or to the deprivation of any right or
benefit to which he or his legal personal representatives would
otherwise be entitled, or be liable to be placed in any respect, directly
or indirectly, under any disability or at any disadvantage as compared
with other members of the union or society, anything to the contrary
in the rules of a trade union or society notwithstanding.

                                    PART 4

                                  GENERAL

Dispersal of assemblies

 13.—(1) Whenever the Minister declares that an immediate threat
to public peace exists within Singapore or any part thereof, any police
officer not below the rank of sergeant may command any assembly of
10 or more persons within Singapore to disperse and it shall
thereupon be the duty of those persons to disperse accordingly.

 (2) Any person joining or continuing in any assembly referred to in
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Criminal Law (Temporary

2020 Ed.  Provisions) Act 1955                                     12

conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (3) Any declaration under subsection (1) shall, but without
prejudice to the making of a further declaration, remain in force
for a period not exceeding 48 hours.

 (4) In any prosecution under this section, a certificate signed by the
Minister as to the date and time of the making of a declaration shall be
admissible in evidence and shall not be called in question in any
court.

Powers of search and boarding vessels

 14.—(1) A police officer not below the rank of sergeant may,
without warrant and with or without assistance, enter and search any
premises, stop and search any vehicle or individual, whether in a
public place or not, if he suspects that any evidence of the
commission of an offence is likely to be found on the premises or
individual or in the vehicle, and may seize any evidence so found.

 (2) Without prejudice to the provisions of any other written law, any
police officer may, when on duty and on the authority of a police
officer not below the rank of sergeant —

       (a) stop, board and search any vessel not being or having the
            status of a ship of war; and

       (b) remain on board so long as the vessel remains within the
            waters of Singapore.

 (3) Any police officer searching a vessel under subsection (2) may
seize any evidence found therein of the commission of any offence
under the provisions of any written law for the time being in force.

 (4) Any person resisting or hindering or in any way obstructing any
police officer carrying out a search under this section shall be guilty
of an offence.

Disposal of subversive documents

 15. Any subversive document seized under the provisions of this
Act shall be destroyed or otherwise disposed of in such manner as the
Commissioner of Police may order.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Criminal Law (Temporary

13  Provisions) Act 1955                                     2020 Ed.

Failure to report offences

 16.—(1) Any person who, knowing or having reasonable cause to
believe that another person is guilty of any offence included for the
time being in the Second Schedule, fails to report the same to a police
officer at the earliest possible opportunity shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 5 years.

 (2) Where any person is charged with an offence under
subsection (1), the burden of proving that there was no opportunity
of making a report to a police officer, or that such a report was, in fact,
made by him at the earliest possible opportunity, shall lie on the
accused.

 (3) Subsection (1) shall not apply to communications made by a
client to an advocate and solicitor which are protected from
disclosure under section 128 of the Evidence Act 1893.

Attempt to commit offences and assisting offenders

 17.—(1) Without prejudice to the operation of Chapter 5 and
Chapter 23 of the Penal Code 1871, any person who attempts to
commit, or does any act preparatory to the commission of an offence
under this Act, shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence.

 (2) No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
another person has committed an offence under this Act, shall give
that other person any assistance with intent thereby to prevent, hinder
or interfere with the apprehension, trial or punishment of that person
for that offence.

Offences arrestable and non-bailable

 18. Every offence under this Act, other than an offence under
section 9, shall be arrestable and non-bailable for the purposes of the
Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

Offences by companies, etc.

 19. Where a person committing an offence under this Act is a
company or other body corporate or any association of persons
(whether incorporated or not), every director, manager, secretary,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Criminal Law (Temporary

2020 Ed.  Provisions) Act 1955                                     14

agent or other officer or person concerned with the management
thereof shall, unless he proves that the offence was committed
without his knowledge or consent, be deemed to be guilty of that
offence.

Penalties

 20. If any person contravenes or fails to comply with any of the
provisions of this Act, or any order or rule made under any of those
provisions, or any direction given or requirement imposed under any
of those provisions, or abets such contravention or failure, he shall be
guilty of an offence and, subject to any special provisions in this Act,
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

Jurisdiction of District Courts

 21. Without prejudice to the jurisdiction of the General Division of
the High Court, a District Court shall have jurisdiction to try any
offence under this Act and to impose therefor a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or both.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Admission of statements in evidence

 22.—(1) Where any person is charged with any offence under this
Act, any statement, whether the statement amounts to a confession or
not or is oral or in writing, made at any time, whether before or after
the person is charged and whether in the course of a police
investigation or not, by that person to or in the hearing of any
police officer of or above the rank of sergeant shall, notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in any written law, be admissible at
his trial in evidence and, if that person tenders himself as a witness,
any such statement may be used in cross‑examination and for the
purpose of impeaching his credit.

 (2) No statement referred to in subsection (1) shall be admissible or
so used if the making of the statement appears to the court to have
been caused by any inducement, threat or promise having reference to
the charge against that person, proceeding from a person in authority
and sufficient, in the opinion of the court, to give that person grounds

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Criminal Law (Temporary

15  Provisions) Act 1955                                     2020 Ed.

which would appear to him reasonable for supposing that by making
it he would gain any advantage or avoid any evil of a temporal nature
in reference to the proceedings against him.

Trials may be in private

 23. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any written law, a
court may order that the whole or any part of any trial before it for any
offence under this Act shall be dealt with in private if it is satisfied
that it is expedient in the interests of justice or of public safety or
security to do so.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Power to prohibit publication of witnesses’ names, etc.

 24.—(1) A court may at any time order that no person shall publish
the name, address or photograph of any witness in any case tried or
about to be tried before it for an offence under this Act, or any
evidence or any other thing likely to lead to the identification of any
such witness.

 (2) Any person who acts in contravention of any order made under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence.

Disposal of articles in possession of authorities

 25.—(1) The provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010
relating to the disposal of property the subject of offences shall apply
to any article coming into the possession of an authority which the
authority has reasonable ground for believing to be evidence of the
commission of an offence under this Act, as they apply to property
coming into the possession of the police, and in relation to any such
article, shall have effect as if any reference therein to a police officer
included a reference to an authority.

 (2) For the purposes of this section, “authority” includes any public
officer and any other person whomsoever having functions in
connection with the operation of this Act.

 (3) Nothing in this section shall be taken to prejudice any right to
retain or dispose of property which may exist in the law apart from
this section.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                     Criminal Law (Temporary

2020 Ed.             Provisions) Act 1955                          16

Publicity of orders

 26.—(1) When any order or declaration is made or direction given
under the provisions of this Act, the authority making the order or
declaration or giving the direction shall cause notice of the effect of it
to be given as soon as possible in such manner as he thinks necessary
for bringing it to the notice of all persons who in his opinion ought to
have notice of it.

 (2) Any order or declaration made or direction given under
subsection (1) shall have effect as soon as notice under that
subsection has been given, without publication in the Gazette.

Interpretation of sections 27A, 27B and 27C

 27.—(1) In sections 27A, 27B and 27C —

      “appropriate consent” means —

              (a) for a person 16 years of age and above, the written
                   consent of that person;

              (b) for a person 14 years of age and above but below
                   16 years of age, the written consent of both that
                   person and of his parent or guardian; and

              (c) for a person below 14 years of age, the written
                   consent of his parent or guardian,

         given to a police officer or officer of the Central Narcotics
         Bureau in charge of the case after that officer has informed
         the person concerned, his parent or guardian or both, as the
         case may be, of the purpose for which a body sample is
         required from such person and the manner by which such
         body sample is to be taken from him;

      “authorised analyst” means a person appointed by the
         Commissioner of Police to be an analyst;

      “body sample” means —

              (a) a sample of blood;

              (b) a sample of head hair, including the roots thereof;

              (c) a swab taken from a person’s mouth; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Criminal Law (Temporary

17  Provisions) Act 1955                                     2020 Ed.

    (d) such other sample as may be prescribed under
         subsection (2);

    “DNA” means deoxyribonucleic acid;

    “DNA information” means genetic information derived from the
       forensic DNA analysis of a body sample;

    “finger impression” includes thumb impression and palmar
       impression;

    [Deleted by Act 26 of 2022 wef 12/06/2023]

    “invasive sample” means any body sample that is obtained by
       means of any invasive procedure, but does not include any
       sample described in subsection (3);

                                                                           [Act 26 of 2022 wef 12/06/2023]

    “other particulars”, in relation to a person, means any
       particulars, information or description of that person, other
       than his registrable particulars, that may be relevant or useful
       in the identification of that person;

    “photograph”, in relation to a person, includes the photograph of
       any distinguishing feature or mark on the body of that person;

    “registered medical practitioner” has the meaning given by the
       Medical Registration Act 1997 and includes a dentist
       registered under the Dental Registration Act 1999;

      “registrable particulars” means the particulars of any detention
         or supervision order made under section 30(1), 32 or 38 and
         any name, description, photograph or finger impression of, or
         document relating to, any person so detained or placed under
         supervision, as the case may be.

                                                                                    [32/2004; 22/2007; 12/2018]

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the Minister may prescribe additional
types of body samples that may be taken under section 27A.

                                                                                                           [32/2004]

 (3) The additional types of body samples that may be prescribed
under subsection (2) shall not include samples to be obtained from —

    (a) the genital or anal area of a person’s body;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Criminal Law (Temporary

2020 Ed.  Provisions) Act 1955                                     18

(b) a person’s body orifice other than the mouth; or

          (c) the breasts of a woman.

                                                                   [32/2004]

Taking of photographs, finger impressions, body samples, etc.,
from person arrested, detained or subject to police supervision

 27A.—(1) A police officer or officer of the Central Narcotics
Bureau may exercise all or any of the following powers in respect of
any person referred to in subsection (2):

       (a) take or cause to be taken photographs and finger
            impressions of such person;

       (b) make or cause to be made a record of the registrable
            particulars and any other particulars of such person;

       (c) cause body samples of such person to be taken by a person
            authorised under section 27B(1);

       (d) send any photograph, finger impression, record of
            particulars or body sample so taken or made to the
            Commissioner of Police for identification and report.

                                                                                                           [32/2004]

 (2) The powers referred to in subsection (1) may be exercised in
respect of any of the following persons:

       (a) a person who, on 21 October 2004, is under arrest and
            detained under section 44 or 45;

       (b) a person who, on 21 October 2004, is under detention or
            subject to supervision under section 30(1), 32 or 38;

       (c) a person who, on or after 21 October 2004, is arrested,
            detained or placed under police supervision under any of
            the provisions of this Act.

                                                                                                [32/2004; 12/2018]

 (3) Every person mentioned in subsection (2) shall —

       (a) submit to the taking of his photographs and finger
            impressions under subsection (1);

       (b) provide such registrable particulars and other particulars as
            may be required under subsection (1); and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Criminal Law (Temporary

19  Provisions) Act 1955                                     2020 Ed.

       (c) subject to subsection (5), submit to the taking of his body
            samples by a person authorised under section 27B(1).

                                                                                                           [32/2004]

 (4) Where any person mentioned in subsection (2) fails, without
reasonable excuse, to comply with subsection (3) —

    (a) that person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
         on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to
         imprisonment for a term not exceeding one month or to
         both; and

      (b) a police officer or officer of the Central Narcotics Bureau
           may use such force as is reasonably necessary to take or
           cause to be taken the photographs, finger impressions and
           body samples of that person.

                                                                                                         [32/2004]

(5) No —

    (a) sample of blood; or

    (b) invasive sample, which may be prescribed under
         section 27(2),

shall be taken from any person unless the appropriate consent is given
for the taking of the sample.

                                                                                                           [32/2004]

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2022 wef 12/06/2023]

 (6) All photographs, finger impressions and particulars of a person
taken before 21 October 2004 under section 27 or 37 in force before
that date shall be deemed to have been taken under this section.

                                                                                                           [32/2004]

Further provisions for taking of body samples

 27B.—(1) For the purposes of section 27A(1)(c), a body sample
may only be taken by —

       (a) a registered medical practitioner;

       (b) a police officer or officer of the Central Narcotics Bureau
            who has received training for the purpose; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Criminal Law (Temporary

2020 Ed.  Provisions) Act 1955                                     20

       (c) any other suitably qualified or trained person who is duly
            appointed in writing by the Commissioner of Police as an
            authorised person for the purpose.

                                                                                                           [32/2004]

 (2) Before taking any body sample, the person authorised by
subsection (1) to take the sample must satisfy himself that the taking
of the sample does not endanger the person from whom the sample is
to be taken.

                                                                                                           [32/2004]

 (3) The fact that a body sample has been taken for the purposes of
section 27A shall be recorded by the person who took the sample in
such form or manner as may be required by the Commissioner of
Police.

                                                                                                           [32/2004]

 (4) Every body sample taken for the purposes of section 27A shall
be sent to an authorised analyst for forensic DNA analysis.

                                                                                                           [32/2004]

Retention of photographs, finger impressions, particulars and
body samples taken

 27C.—(1) The Commissioner of Police shall cause to be
maintained —

       (a) a register (whether in a computerised form or otherwise) in
            which shall be stored all photographs, finger impressions,
            registrable particulars and other particulars of a person
            taken or deemed to be taken under section 27A; and

       (b) a DNA database (whether in a computerised form or
            otherwise) in which shall be stored all DNA information
            derived from a body sample taken from a person under
            section 27A.

                                                                                                           [32/2004]

 (2) Any information stored in the register and the DNA database
under subsection (1) may be used for all or any of the following
purposes:

       (a) for comparison with any other information or any other
            DNA information, as the case may be, obtained in the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Criminal Law (Temporary

21  Provisions) Act 1955                                     2020 Ed.

    course of an investigation of an offence conducted by a
    police officer or officer of the Central Narcotics Bureau;

    (b) for comparison with information in the register of
         criminals or identification database maintained under
         section 4 or 29 of the Registration of Criminals Act
         1949 or with DNA information in the DNA database
         maintained under section 31 of that Act, as the case may
         be;

                                                                        [Act 26 of 2022 wef 12/06/2023]

    (c) for comparison with information or DNA information, as
         the case may be, in the register or DNA database,
         respectively, established under —

    (i) section 26D of the Intoxicating Substances Act 1987;
        or

    (ii) section 40D of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973;

    (d) for any proceedings for any offence;

    (e) for administering the register and DNA database for the
        purposes of this Act;

      (ea) for any investigation into a death conducted by a police
            officer, a Coroner or a forensic pathologist (including a
            post-mortem examination) or any inquiry into any death
            held by a Coroner, under the Coroners Act 2010;

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2022 wef 12/06/2023]

      (eb) for identifying a dead person or any part of a person;

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2022 wef 12/06/2023]

      (ec) for identifying a person in order to provide police
            assistance to the person;

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2022 wef 12/06/2023]

        (f) for such other purposes as may be prescribed.

                                                                                                 [32/2004; 2/2006]

 (3) Where any photograph, finger impression, record of particulars
or body sample has been taken under section 27A from an arrested
person and that person is subsequently released, without being —

    (a) convicted of any offence under this Act; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Criminal Law (Temporary

2020 Ed.  Provisions) Act 1955                                     22

(b) placed on detention or supervision under this Act,

the Commissioner of Police shall cause all such photographs, finger
impressions, records of particulars and body samples taken from that
person to be removed from the register and DNA database maintained
under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [32/2004]

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (2)(d) —

(a) any photograph, finger impression, registrable particulars
     or other particulars stored in the register under
     subsection (1)(a);

(b) any DNA information stored in the DNA database under
     subsection (1)(b); and

          (c) any certificate or report purporting to have been compiled
              or made from information stored in the register or DNA
              database maintained under subsection (1),

shall, if produced from proper custody and authenticated by the
signature of the Commissioner of Police or a police officer authorised
by the Commissioner of Police, be admissible in evidence in any
proceedings, without proof of signature; and, until the contrary is
proved, shall be proof of all matters contained therein or appearing
thereon.

                                                                                                 [32/2004; 2/2006]

Power to amend Schedules

 28. The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, add to, vary or
amend any of the Schedules.

Effect of this Act

 29. The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in
derogation of the provisions of any other written law and, in the event
of conflict between any provision of this Act and any provision of any
other written law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Criminal Law (Temporary

23  Provisions) Act 1955                                     2020 Ed.

    PART 5

    DETENTION

Power of Minister to make orders

 30.—(1) Whenever the Minister is satisfied with respect to any
person, whether the person is at large or in custody, that the person
has been associated with activities of a criminal nature, the Minister
may, with the consent of the Public Prosecutor —

    (a) if he is satisfied that it is necessary that the person be
         detained in the interests of public safety, peace and good
         order, by order under his hand direct that the person be
         detained for any period not exceeding 12 months from the
         date of the order; or

       (b) if he is satisfied that it is necessary that the person be
            subject to the supervision of the police, by order direct that
            the person be subject to the supervision of the police for
            any period not exceeding 3 years from the date of the order.

                                                                                                           [12/2018]

 (2) Every decision of the Minister on a matter in subsection (1) is
final.

                                                                                                           [12/2018]

 (3) In this section, “activities of a criminal nature” means any
activity specified in the Fourth Schedule.

                                                                                                           [12/2018]

Orders to be referred to advisory committee and subject to
confirmation by President

 31.—(1) Every order made by the Minister under section 30(1)
shall, together with a written statement of the grounds upon which the
Minister made the order, be referred by the Minister to an advisory
committee constituted as provided in section 39, within 28 days of the
making of the order.

                                                                                                           [12/2018]

 (2) The advisory committee shall submit to the President a written
report on the making of the order and may make therein such
recommendations as it shall think fit.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Criminal Law (Temporary

2020 Ed.  Provisions) Act 1955                                     24

 (3) The President shall consider the report and may cancel or
confirm the order and in confirming the order may make thereto such
variations as he thinks fit.

Power to substitute order for police supervision

 32.—(1) At any time after an order of detention in respect of a
person has been made under section 30(1) or confirmed under
section 31(3) or after the expiry of the validity of the order, the
Minister may by order direct that the person be subject to the
supervision of the police for any period not exceeding 3 years from
the date of the order and thereupon any detention order made or
confirmed in respect of that person shall be deemed to be cancelled
and that person if under detention shall be released.

                                                                                                           [12/2018]

 (2) Section 31 shall apply to any order made by the Minister under
subsection (1) as it applies to an order made by the Minister under
section 30(1).

                                                                                                           [12/2018]

Obligations on person subject to supervision

 33.—(1) The Minister may, by order in writing served on a person
directed to be subject to the supervision of the police under
section 30(1) or 32 (called in this Act a person subject to
supervision), direct the person to comply with all or any of the
obligations prescribed by rules made under section 49 for the
purposes of this section.

                                                                                                           [12/2018]

 (2) The Minister may, from time to time, by order in writing served
on the person subject to supervision —

       (a) cancel any of the obligations imposed on that person by an
            order under subsection (1) or this subsection; or

       (b) direct that person to comply with any obligation prescribed
            by rules made under section 49 for the purposes of this
            section.

                                                                                                           [12/2018]

 (3) A person subject to supervision who contravenes or fails to
comply with any obligation imposed on that person by an order under

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Criminal Law (Temporary

25  Provisions) Act 1955                                     2020 Ed.

subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not less than one year and
not more than 3 years.

                                                                                                           [12/2018]

 (4) A person subject to supervision is not required to comply with
any obligation imposed on that person by an order under
subsection (1) or (2) —

    (a) while that person is imprisoned or otherwise in custody, or
         detained, under any other written law; or

      (b) if, and only to the extent that, the obligation is inconsistent
           with any order or direction made by a court in respect of
           that person, such as an order or a direction to attend any
           court proceeding despite the obligation.

                                                                                                         [12/2018]

34. [Repealed by Act 12 of 2018]

Double penalties for crimes of violence

 35. Any person subject to supervision who is convicted of an
offence, committed after the date of the order directing him to be
subject to supervision, under the provisions of any law specified in
the Third Schedule shall, notwithstanding any other written law to the
contrary, be liable to imprisonment for a term twice as long as the
maximum term for which he would otherwise have been liable on
conviction for that offence, and also to caning.

                                                                                                           [12/2018]

 36. [Repealed by Act 12 of 2018]

 37. [Repealed by Act 32 of 2004]

Extension of orders

 38.—(1) The President may, from time to time, extend the validity
of any order of detention confirmed under section 31(3) for periods
not exceeding 12 months at any one time and may at any time refer
any such order for further consideration by an advisory committee.

 (2) The President may, from time to time, extend the period for
which a person is directed to be under the supervision of the police by

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Criminal Law (Temporary

2020 Ed.  Provisions) Act 1955                                     26

any order confirmed under section 31(3) and may at any time refer
any such order for further consideration by an advisory committee.

Revocation of orders

 38A. The Minister may, at any time, revoke an order made under
section 30(1) or 32, whether or not the order has been confirmed
under section 31(3) or extended under section 38.

                                                                                                           [12/2018]

Constitution of advisory committees

 39. For the purposes of this Act, the Minister may from time to time
appoint one or more advisory committees each consisting of not less
than 2 persons.

Powers and procedure of advisory committees

 40.—(1) Every advisory committee shall for the purposes of this
Act have all the powers of a court for the summoning and
examination of witnesses, the administration of oaths or
affirmations and for compelling the production of documents.

 (2) Every member of an advisory committee shall be deemed to be a
public servant within the meaning of the Penal Code 1871 and shall
have in case of any action or suit brought against him for any act done
or omitted to be done in the execution of his duty under the provisions
of this Act the like protection and privileges as are by law given to a
Judge in the execution of his office.

 (3) Every advisory committee shall have regard to the requirements
of public safety, the protection of individuals and the safeguarding of
sources of information and subject to the provisions of this Act and
any rules made under section 49 may regulate its own procedure.

Disclosure of information

 41. Nothing in this Act or in any rules made under section 49 shall
require the Minister or any other public servant to disclose facts
which he considers it to be against the public interest to disclose.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Criminal Law (Temporary

27  Provisions) Act 1955                                     2020 Ed.

Manner of detention and powers to order removal

 42.—(1) Every person detained in pursuance of an order made
under section 30(1) shall be detained in such place as the Minister
may direct and in accordance with instructions issued by the Minister.

                                                                                                           [12/2018]

 (2) The Minister may by order direct the removal from any place of
detention to another place of detention to be specified in the order of
any person detained in pursuance of an order made under
section 30(1).

                                                                                                           [12/2018]

 (3) On proof to his satisfaction that the presence at any place of any
person detained in pursuance of an order made under section 30(1) is
required in the interests of justice, or for the purpose of any inquiry, or
in the public interest or in the interest of the person detained, the
Minister may order that the person be taken to that place.

                                                                                                           [12/2018]

 (4) Any person in the course of removal under subsection (2) or in
the course of being taken to any place in pursuance of subsection (3)
and when so removed or while at that place shall be kept in such
custody as the Minister may direct and while in that custody shall be
deemed to be in lawful custody.

Temporary release of detainees to engage in employment

 43.—(1) The Minister may, from time to time, on the
recommendation of an advisory committee appointed for the
purposes of this section, direct that a detainee shall be released
from day to day to engage in such employment (including
self‑employment) as the Minister may specify.

 (2) Any direction made under subsection (1) shall have effect for a
period to be fixed by the Minister and may be subject to such
conditions and restrictions as may be imposed by the Minister.

 (3) The Minister may at any time revoke any direction made under
subsection (1).

 (4) The Minister may, subject to such conditions and restrictions as
he thinks fit, grant leave to a detainee in respect of whom a direction

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Criminal Law (Temporary

2020 Ed.  Provisions) Act 1955                                     28

has been made under subsection (1) to spend his leave at such place as
the Minister may specify.

 (5) The Minister may at any time revoke any leave granted to a
detainee under subsection (4).

 (6) Where any direction made under subsection (1) is in force in
respect of a detainee or any leave is granted under subsection (4) to a
detainee, the superintendent of the place of detention shall release the
detainee at such times and for such periods as are necessary to give
effect to the direction or grant of leave.

 (7) If any detainee in respect of whom a direction has been made
under subsection (1) or leave has been granted under subsection (4)
remains at large without lawful excuse or fails to return to his place of
detention after the direction or leave has been revoked, he shall be
deemed to be unlawfully at large and to have escaped from lawful
custody.

 (8) Every person released under this section shall continue to be in
the legal custody of the superintendent of the place of detention from
which he is released during every period for which he is so released.

 (9) For the purposes of this section, “detainee” means any person
who is detained in pursuance of an order made under section 30(1).

                                                                                                           [12/2018]

Power to detain suspected persons

 44.—(1) Any police officer may, without warrant, arrest and detain
pending enquiries any person in respect of whom he has reason to
believe there are grounds which would justify the detention of the
person under section 30(1).

                                                                                                           [12/2018]

 (2) No person shall be detained under this section for a period
exceeding 24 hours except with the authority of a police officer of or
above the rank of assistant superintendent or for a period of 48 hours
in all.

 (3) If an officer of or above the rank of superintendent of police is
satisfied that the necessary enquiries cannot be completed within the
period of 48 hours he may authorise the further detention of the
person for an additional period not exceeding 14 days and shall on

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Criminal Law (Temporary

29  Provisions) Act 1955                                     2020 Ed.

giving such authorisation forthwith report the circumstances to the
Commissioner of Police.

 (4) Any person detained under the powers conferred by this section
shall be deemed to be in lawful custody and may be detained in any
prison, or in any police station or in any other similar place authorised
generally or specially by the Minister.

Duty to arrest persons ordered to be detained

 45.—(1) Any police officer may, without warrant, arrest any person
found at large in respect of whom there is in existence a detention
order made by the Minister under section 30(1) and shall forthwith
report the arrest to the Commissioner of Police.

                                                                                                           [12/2018]

 (2) Any person arrested under subsection (1) shall be deemed to be
in lawful custody and may be detained for a period not exceeding
48 hours in any prison or in any police station pending the issuing of
instructions by the Minister for his further detention.

Power to enter and search

 46. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any written law, it
shall be lawful for any police officer of or above the rank of assistant
superintendent, or a police officer of any rank specially authorised by
a police officer of or above the rank of assistant superintendent, in
order to effect the arrest of any person in pursuance of the provisions
of this Part, to enter and search any place and in order to effect an
entrance into that place to break open any outer or inner door or
window of that place if he cannot otherwise obtain admittance
thereto.

Officers of Central Narcotics Bureau to exercise powers
conferred on police officers under sections 44, 45 and 46, etc.

 47.—(1) Subject to this section, the powers conferred upon a police
officer under sections 44, 45 and 46 may be exercised by an officer of
the Central Narcotics Bureau.

                                                                                                           [12/2018]

 (2) The powers conferred upon a police officer of or above the rank
of assistant superintendent under sections 44(2) and 46 may be

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Criminal Law (Temporary

2020 Ed.  Provisions) Act 1955                                     30

exercised by the Director, a Deputy Director or a Divisional Director
of the Central Narcotics Bureau.

                                                                                                 [2/2006; 12/2018]

 (3) The power conferred upon an officer of or above the rank of
superintendent of police under section 44(3) may be exercised by the
Director or a Deputy Director of the Central Narcotics Bureau.

                                                                                                             [2/2006]

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), where the power conferred upon an
officer of or above the rank of superintendent of police under
section 44(3), or the power conferred upon a police officer under
section 45(1), is exercised by an officer of the Central Narcotics
Bureau in accordance with this section, the duty to report to the
Commissioner of Police under those sections shall be read as a duty to
report in a similar manner to the Director of the Central Narcotics
Bureau.

 (5) The duty to report to the Director of the Central Narcotics
Bureau referred to in subsection (4) shall not apply where the power
under section 44(3) or 45(1) was exercised by the Director of the
Central Narcotics Bureau himself.

 (6) In any case relating to the commission of an offence under
section 33(3), an officer of the Central Narcotics Bureau —

(a) has all the powers of a police officer under the Criminal
     Procedure Code 2010 in relation to an investigation into an
     arrestable offence; and

      (b) for the purposes of exercising such powers, is deemed to be
           a police officer not below the rank of inspector of police.

                                                                                                         [12/2018]

(7) In this section —

“Director”, “Deputy Director” and “Divisional Director”, in
   relation to the Central Narcotics Bureau, mean the Director, a
   Deputy Director and a Divisional Director, respectively, of
   the Central Narcotics Bureau appointed under section 3 of the
   Misuse of Drugs Act 1973;

“officer of the Central Narcotics Bureau” means the Director, a
   Deputy Director, a Divisional Director or any other officer of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Criminal Law (Temporary

31  Provisions) Act 1955                                     2020 Ed.

    the Central Narcotics Bureau appointed under section 3 of the
    Misuse of Drugs Act 1973.

                                                                                                 [12/2018]

Powers of Public Prosecutor

 48. Nothing in this Act derogates from the powers of the Public
Prosecutor with regard to the control and direction of criminal
prosecutions.

Rules

 49.—(1) The Minister may make rules for the purpose of carrying
into effect all or any of the provisions of this Part.

 (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by
subsection (1), such rules may provide for —

       (a) the issue by the Commissioner of National Registration
            appointed under the National Registration Act 1965 of
            special identity cards to all or any class of persons subject
            to supervision;

       (b) the form, custody, production, inspection, cancellation,
            alteration, endorsement on and replacement of those cards
            and the substitution thereof for identity cards issued to
            those persons under any written law; and

       (c) all other matters necessary or desirable in connection with
            those cards or the carrying thereof or the enforcement of
            those rules, including the prescription of penalties not
            exceeding in respect of any offence a fine of $5,000 or
            imprisonment for a term of 3 years or both.

                                                                                                           [12/2018]

    FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                             Section 5

                                         PART 1

                              ESSENTIAL SERVICES

1. Banking services, including services relating to transactions in capital
   markets products.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                      Criminal Law (Temporary

2020 Ed.                   Provisions) Act 1955                           32

                      FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

2. Broadcasting services.

3. Bulk distribution of fuel and lubricants.

4. Civil defence services provided by the Singapore Civil Defence Force.

5. Clearing and settlement services relating to transactions in capital markets
   products and transactions in the banking system.

6. Drug enforcement services provided by the Central Narcotics Bureau.

7. Electricity and gas services.

8. Fire services, including rescue and fire-fighting services provided by the
   Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore.

 9. Information services and undertakings provided by the Ministry of Digital
     Development and Information (including the Cyber Security Agency and the
     Smart Nation Group), the Government Technology Agency, the
     Info‑communications Media Development Authority and the National
     Library Board.

                                                                                  [S 569/2024 wef 08/07/2024]

10. Information technology services to support the processing of applications for
     permits for the import, export and transshipment of goods.

11. Newspaper services.

12. Pollution control and environmental monitoring and assessment services
     provided by the National Environment Agency.

13. Port, dock and harbour services and undertakings, including services relating
     to the tracking and safe navigation of vessels in the territorial waters of
     Singapore and marine services and facilities and port services and facilities
     as defined in the Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore Act 1996.

14. Postal and telecommunication services and undertakings.

15. Prison services.

16. Private and public health services, including services relating to the
     collection of blood for the use of hospitals and the pharmaceutical services.

17. Public transport and air transport services, including ground handling
     services.

18. Refuse or waste collection services provided by any public waste collector
     licensee licensed under the Environmental Public Health Act 1987.

19. Services provided by the Air Traffic Controllers and the Operations and
     Licensing Assistants of the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                     Criminal Law (Temporary

33                   Provisions) Act 1955                          2020 Ed.

                     FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

20. Services provided by the Immigration & Checkpoints Authority.

21. Services relating to dealings in capital markets products provided by the
     holder of a capital markets services licence under the Securities and Futures
     Act 2001.

22. Sewerage and wastewater treatment services.

23. Animal health services provided by the National Parks Board, including the
     control of zoonotic diseases.

24. Food safety services provided by the Singapore Food Agency, including
     inspection and laboratory analysis of food.

25. Water reclamation services.

26. Water services.

27. Weather information provided by the Meteorological Services Division of
     the National Environment Agency.

28. The following undertakings performed for the Singapore Armed Forces:

    (a) the construction, maintenance and repair of military installations;

    (b) the design, development, production, manufacture, supply, transport,
         delivery, repair and maintenance of weapon systems (including
         military aircraft, ships, submarines and vehicles, arms, explosives,
         computer hardware and software and other military equipment) and
         spares and components thereof;

    (c) the land, air and sea transportation of military personnel and
        equipment;

    (d) the management and operation of warehouses, military retail outlets,
         storehouses, ferry terminals, cookhouses and camp complexes;

    (e) the security functions performed at military installations or buildings;

    (f) the supply, transport and delivery of military supplies, including
        rations and construction materials;

    (g) the surveillance, testing and disposal of ammunition.

29. All undertakings of whatever nature of —

    (a) an approved exchange, an approved clearing house or an approved
         holding company, as defined in section 2(1) of the Securities and
         Futures Act 2001;

    (b) Singapore Customs;

    (c) Toppan Security Printing Pte. Ltd.;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Criminal Law (Temporary

2020 Ed.  Provisions) Act 1955                                     34

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

(d) the CISCO Recall Total Information Management Pte. Ltd.;

(e) the Monetary Authority of Singapore in managing the Singapore dollar
    exchange rate; and

          (f) the Monetary Authority of Singapore under the Currency Act 1967.

30. Services provided by forensic specialists (within the meaning of the Police
     Force Act 2004) and fire forensic specialists (within the meaning of the Fire
     Safety Act 1993).

31. Services of a scientific or technological character (including systems
     development and technological support for operations) provided by the
     Home Team Science and Technology Agency.

          PART 2

          FORM 1

                                                                   Section 6(5)

          CRIMINAL LAW (TEMPORARY PROVISIONS) ACT 1955

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                                                                                                            FIRST SCHEDULE — continued                                                 35

                                                         To ..............................        .
                                                             (Name of Employers)
                                                                                            We (1) ...............................................................................
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025                                           (2) ...............................................................................  Provisions) Act 1955  Criminal Law (Temporary
                                                                                                  (3) ...............................................................................
                                                                                                  (4) ...............................................................................
                                                                                                  (5) ...............................................................................
                                                                                                  (6) ...............................................................................
                                                                                                  (7) ...............................................................................

                                                                                                                                                                                       2020 Ed.
                        Criminal Law (Temporary

2020 Ed.                Provisions) Act 1955                                              36

                        FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

being     employees of  ................................................
          members of

                        (Name of trade union)

acting on behalf of employees of ..........................................
                                                       (Name of company, firm, etc.)

hereby give notice that the classes of employees as set out below intend to go
on strike on ....................... unless negotiations for

                          (date)
a settlement have been commenced beforehand or unless the demands presented
to you on ................................... 20..... have been satisfied by ......................... 20 .
......

                   (1) ....................................................................
                   (2) ....................................................................
                   (3) ....................................................................
Signatures (4) ....................................................................
                   (5) ....................................................................
                   (6) ....................................................................
                   (7) ....................................................................
              Classes of employees (giving usual designation):
                   .............................................................................
                   .............................................................................
                   .............................................................................
                   .............................................................................

                        FORM 2

                                                                           Section 6(6)

          CRIMINAL LAW (TEMPORARY PROVISIONS) ACT 1955

I ........................... being ....................................................

          (name)        (manager, proprietor, partner, etc.)

of ......................................................................
               (Name of company, firm, etc.)

hereby give notice to the classes of my employees set out below that as from
................................ 20.......... they will not be permitted to work on my premises

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
               Criminal Law (Temporary

37             Provisions) Act 1955                          2020 Ed.

               FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

of the above ................................................
                                       (Name of company, firm, etc.)

unless a satisfactory agreement as to conditions of employment has been reached
between myself and them or their representatives, or negotiations opened to that
end by ............................................. 20........

Class of employees (giving usual designation):

....................................................

....................................................

....................................................

                                                                        .....................
                                                                          (Signature)

                               [10/2001; 4/2014; 10/2015; 4/2017; 11/2019; 21/2019;
                                                                     S 13/2005; S 636/2015]

               SECOND SCHEDULE                               Section 16(1)

               REPORTABLE OFFENCES

1. The Arms Offences Act 1973  Sections 3, 6 and 7.

2. Corrosive and Explosive     Section 3 or 4 involving an explosive

    Substances and Offensive Weapons substance.

    Act 1958*

                                                           [Act 3 of 2021 wef 01/07/2025]
                            [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

                          THIRD SCHEDULE

                                                                                                       Section 35

                                  SPECIFIED LAWS
1. Sections 3, 4, 6 and 7 of the Arms Offences Act 1973.
2. The Corrosive and Explosive Substances and Offensive Weapons Act 1958.
3. Section 3 of the Hostage-Taking Act 2010.
4. Sections 58 and 59 of the Internal Security Act 1960.
5. Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Kidnapping Act 1961.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Criminal Law (Temporary

2020 Ed.  Provisions) Act 1955                                     38

          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

6. Sections 5, 7, 11F and 11H of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973.

                                                                                [S 480/2024 wef 01/06/2024]

7. Sections 143, 144, 145, 147, 148, 307, 323, 324, 325, 326, 327, 332, 333,
   346, 347, 352, 353, 356, 357, 363, 363A, 364, 364A (as in force before
   21 November 2010), 365, 368, 384, 385, 386, 387, 392, 393, 394, 395, 396,
   397, 399, 400, 401, 402, 447, 448, 449, 450, 451, 452, 453, 506, 512 and
   Chapter 5 of the Penal Code 1871.

8. Sections 14 and 15 of the Societies Act 1966.

                                                                            [51/2007; 15/2019; S 668/2010]

                          FOURTH SCHEDULE

                                                                                                      Section 30(3)

                     ACTIVITIES OF A CRIMINAL NATURE
 1. Unlicensed moneylending
 2. Drug trafficking
 3. Involvement in a secret society, or as a gangster
 4. Human trafficking
 5. Robbery with firearms
 6. Murder
 7. Gang rape
 8. Kidnapping
 9. Participating in, or facilitating, any organised crime activity as defined in

     section 48(1) of the Organised Crime Act 2015
10. Attempting to carry out, abetting, or being a party to a criminal conspiracy to

     carry out, any activity listed in items 1 to 9.

                                                                                                          [12/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                     LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
CRIMINAL LAW (TEMPORARY PROVISIONS) ACT 1955

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Ordinance 26 of 1955 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions)
                                    Ordinance, 1955

Bill                  : 10/1955

First Reading         : 18 August 1955

Second Reading        : 22 September 1955

Notice of Amendments  : 12 October 1955

Third Reading         : 12 October 1955

Commencement          : 21 October 1955

2. Ordinance 25 of 1958 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions)
                                    (Amendment) Ordinance, 1958

Bill                  : Information not available

First and Second Readings : 13 August 1958

Notice of Amendments  : 13 August 1958

Third Reading         : 13 August 1958

Commencement          : 15 August 1958

3. Ordinance 36 of 1958 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions)
                                    (Amendment No. 2) Ordinance, 1958

Bill                  : 170/1958

First Reading         : 10 September 1958

Second and Third Readings : 8 October 1958

Commencement          : 17 October 1958

4. Ordinance 34 of 1959 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions)
                                    (Amendment) Ordinance, 1959

Bill                  : 212/1959

First Reading         : 3 March 1959

Second and Third Readings : 18 March 1959

Commencement          : 26 March 1959

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                         ii

5. Ordinance 56 of 1959 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions)
                                    (Amendment No. 2) Ordinance, 1959

Bill                     : 17/1959

First Reading            : 13 August 1959

Second Reading           : 2 September 1959

Notice of Amendments     : 2 September 1959

Third Reading            : 2 September 1959

Commencement             : 25 September 1959

6. Ordinance 43 of 1960 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions)
                                    (Amendment) Ordinance, 1960

Bill                     : Information not available

First, Second and Third  : 3 August 1960
Readings

Commencement             : 12 August 1960

7. Ordinance 56 of 1960 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions)
                                    (Amendment No. 2) Ordinance, 1960

Bill                     : Information not available

First, Second and Third  : 16 November 1960
Readings

Commencement             : 22 November 1960

8. L.N. 231/1963 (G.N. Sp. No. S 4/1963) — Modification of Laws (Internal
                                                         Security and Public Order)
                                                         (Singapore) Order, 1963

Commencement             : 16 September 1963

9. M. Act 22 of 1964 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions)
                                (Amendment) Act, 1964

Commencement             : 30 July 1964

10. L.N. 185/1965 (G.N. Sp. No. S 92/1965) — Modification of Laws (National
                                                          Emblems) (Extension)
                                                          Order, 1965

Commencement             : 13 May 1965

11. Act 4 of 1967 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) (Amendment)
                           Act, 1967

Bill                     : 2/1967

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                         iii

First Reading            : 27 February 1967

Second and Third Readings : 13 March 1967

Commencement             : 3 April 1967

12. Act 8 of 1969 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) (Amendment)
                           Act, 1969

Bill                     : 20/1969

First, Second and Third  : 15 October 1969
Readings

Commencement             : 20 October 1969

13. Act 14 of 1969 — Statute Law Revision Act, 1969
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the First Schedule to the above
     Act)

Bill                     : 22/1969

First Reading            : 15 October 1969

Second Reading           : 22 December 1969

Notice of Amendments     : 22 December 1969

Third Reading            : 22 December 1969

Commencement             : 2 January 1970 (section 2 read with
                               the First Schedule)

14. 1970 Revised Edition — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act
                                     (Chapter 112)

Operation                : 15 April 1971

15. G.N. No. S 121/1971 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) (Essential
                                   Services) Notification, 1971

Commencement             : 15 April 1971

16. Act 21 of 1973 — Statutes of the Republic of Singapore (Miscellaneous
                             Amendments) Act, 1973

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                     : 16/1973

First Reading            : 7 March 1973

Second and Third Readings : 20 March 1973

Commencement             : 6 April 1973 (section 2 read with the
                               Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                         iv

17. Act 15 of 1974 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) (Amendment)
                             Act, 1974

Bill                     : 19/1974

First, Second and Third  : 28 August 1974
Readings

Commencement             : 21 October 1974

18. G.N. No. S 228/1975 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act
                                    (Amendment of Schedules) Notification, 1975

Commencement             : 15 September 1975

19. Act 12 of 1976 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) (Amendment)
                             Act, 1976

Bill                     : 36/1975

First Reading            : 29 July 1975

Second Reading           : 19 August 1975

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 6 of 1976

Third Reading            : 23 July 1976

Commencement             : 1 January 1977

20. G.N. No. S 6/1977 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) (Essential
                                 Services) Notification, 1977

Commencement             : 14 January 1977

21. G.N. No. S 43/1977 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) (Essential
                                  Services) (No. 2) Notification, 1977

Commencement             : 11 March 1977

22. Act 26 of 1979 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) (Amendment)
                             Act, 1979

Bill                     : 26/1979

First Reading            : 7 September 1979

Second and Third Readings : 21 September 1979

Commencement             : 5 October 1979

23. G.N. No. S 245/1979 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) (Essential
                                   Services) Notification, 1979

Commencement             : 30 November 1979

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
               v

24. Act 8 of 1981 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) (Amendment)
                           Act, 1981

Bill           : 5/1981

First Reading  : 6 March 1981

Second and Third Readings : 26 March 1981

Commencement   : 1 May 1981

25. Act 18 of 1984 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) (Amendment)
                             Act 1984

Bill           : 15/1984

First Reading  : 29 June 1984

Second and Third Readings : 26 July 1984

Commencement   : 24 August 1984

26. G.N. No. S 226/1984 — The Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions)
                                    (Amendment) Act 1984

Commencement   : 24 August 1984

27. G.N. No. S 99/1985 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) (Essential
                                  Services) Notification 1985

Commencement   : 26 April 1985

28. G.N. No. S 178/1986 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act
                                    (Amendment of First Schedule)
                                    Notification 1986

Commencement   : 25 July 1986

29. 1985 Revised Edition — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act
                                     (Chapter 67)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

30. G.N. No. S 130/1989 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act
                                    (Amendment of First Schedule)
                                    Notification 1989

Commencement   : 7 April 1989

31. G.N. No. S 318/1989 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act
                                    (Amendment of First Schedule) |(No. 2)
                                    Notification 1989

Commencement   : 28 July 1989

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
               vi

32. Act 33 of 1989 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) (Amendment)
                             Act 1989

Bill           : 32/1989

First Reading  : 11 July 1989

Second and Third Readings : 4 August 1989

Commencement   : 8 September 1989

33. G.N. No. S 216/1992 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act
                                    (Amendment of First Schedule)
                                    Notification 1992

Commencement   : 15 May 1992

34. G.N. No. S 421/1992 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act
                                    (Amendment of First Schedule) (No. 2)
                                    Notification 1992

Commencement   : 2 October 1992

35. G.N. No. S 278/1994 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act
                                    (Amendment of First Schedule)
                                    Notification 1994

Commencement   : 1 July 1994

36. Act 16 of 1994 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) (Amendment)
                             Act 1994

Bill           : 19/1994

First Reading  : 25 July 1994

Second and Third Readings : 25 August 1994

Commencement   : 21 October 1994

37. G.N. No. S 451/1996 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act
                                    (Amendment of First Schedule)
                                    Notification 1996

Commencement   : 18 October 1996

38. G.N. No. S 503/1996 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act
                                    (Amendment of First Schedule) (No. 2)
                                    Notification 1996

Commencement   : 29 November 1996

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
               vii

39. 1998 Revised Edition — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act
                                     (Chapter 67)

Operation      : 30 May 1998

40. Act 17 of 1999 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) (Amendment)
                             Act 1999

Bill           : 12/1999

First Reading  : 11 March 1999

Second and Third Readings : 15 April 1999

Commencement   : 21 October 1999

41. G.N. No. S 31/2000 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act
                                   (Amendment of First Schedule) Notification 2000

Commencement   : 24 January 2000

42. 2000 Revised Edition — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act
                                     (Chapter 67)

Operation      : 1 July 2000

43. G.N. No. S 343/2001 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act
                                    (Amendment of First Schedule)
                                    Notification 2001

Commencement   : 13 July 2001

44. Act 42 of 2001 — Securities and Futures Act 2001
     (Amendments made by section 343(1) read with item (6) of the
     Fourth Schedule to the above Act)

Bill           : 33/2001

First Reading  : 25 September 2001

Second and Third Readings : 5 October 2001

Commencement   : 1 October 2002 (section 343(1) read
                     with item (6) of the Fourth Schedule)

45. Act 25 of 2002 — Currency (Amendment) Act 2002
     (Amendments made by section 9 read with item (2) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 23/2002

First Reading  : 8 July 2002

Second and Third Readings : 23 July 2002

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                      viii

Commencement          : 1 October 2002 (section 9 read with
                            item (2) of the Schedule)

46. Act 10 of 2001 — Electricity Act 2001
     (Amendments made by section 105(1) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 9/2001

First Reading         : 22 February 2001

Second Reading        : 16 March 2001

Notice of Amendments  : 16 March 2001

Third Reading         : 16 March 2001

Commencement          : 1 January 2003 (section 105(1))

47. Act 4 of 2003 — Customs (Amendment) Act 2003
     (Amendments made by section 26 read with item (7) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 6/2003

First Reading         : 10 March 2003

Second and Third Readings : 21 March 2003

Commencement          : 1 April 2003 (section 26 read with
                            item (7) of the Schedule)

48. Act 32 of 2004 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) (Amendment)
                             Act 2004

Bill                  : 30/2004

First Reading         : 20 July 2004

Second and Third Readings : 1 September 2004

Commencement          : 21 October 2004

49. G.N. No. S 13/2005 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act
                                   (Amendment of First Schedule) Notification 2005

Commencement          : 7 January 2005

50. Act 2 of 2006 — Misuse of Drugs (Amendment) Act 2006
     (Amendments made by section 16 read with item (1) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 40/2005

First Reading         : 21 November 2005

Second and Third Readings : 16 January 2006

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
               ix

Commencement   : 1 March 2006 (section 16 read with
                     item (1) of the Schedule)

51. Act 11 of 2001 — Gas Act 2001
     (Amendments made by section 97(1) of the above Act)

Bill           : 10/2001

First Reading  : 22 February 2001

Second and Third Readings : 16 March 2001

Commencement   : 11 June 2007 (section 97(1))

52. Act 22 of 2007 — Dentists (Amendment) Act 2007
     (Amendments made by section 39 read with item (3) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 9/2007

First Reading  : 27 February 2007

Second and Third Readings : 12 April 2007

Commencement   : 1 January 2008 (section 39 read with
                     item (3) of the Schedule)

53. Act 51 of 2007 — Penal Code (Amendment) Act 2007
     (Amendments made by section 107 read with item (2) of the Third Schedule
     to the above Act)

Bill           : 38/2007

First Reading  : 17 September 2007

Second and Third Readings : 23 October 2007

Commencement   : 1 February 2008 (section 107 read
                     with item (2) of the Third Schedule)

54. Act 8 of 2009 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) (Amendment)
                           Act 2009

Bill           : 1/2009

First Reading  : 19 January 2009

Second and Third Readings : 13 February 2009

Commencement   : 21 October 2009

55. G.N. No. S 668/2010 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act
                                    (Amendment of Third Schedule)
                                    Notification 2010

Commencement   : 21 November 2010

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                x

56. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 29 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill            : 11/2010

First Reading   : 26 April 2010

Second Reading  : 18 May 2010

Third Reading   : 19 May 2010

Commencement    : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                      item 29 of the Sixth Schedule)

57. Act 4 of 2014 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2014
     (Amendments made by section 4 of the above Act)

Bill            : 25/2013

First Reading   : 11 November 2013

Second and Third Readings : 21 January 2014

Commencement    : 10 March 2014 (section 4)

58. Act 25 of 2013 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) (Amendment)
                             Act 2013

Bill            : 16/2013

First Reading   : 21 October 2013

Second and Third Readings : 11 November 2013

Commencement    : 21 October 2014

59. Act 10 of 2015 — Police Force (Amendment) Act 2015
     (Amendments made by section 46(1) of the above Act)

Bill            : 5/2015

First Reading   : 29 January 2015

Second and Third Readings : 13 March 2015

Commencement    : 1 June 2015 (section 46(1))

60. G.N. No. S 636/2015 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act
                                    (Amendment of First Schedule)
                                    Notification 2015

Commencement    : 4 November 2015

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                      xi

61. Act 4 of 2017 — Securities and Futures (Amendment) Act 2017
     (Amendments made by section 200 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 35/2016

First Reading         : 7 November 2016

Second and Third Readings : 9 January 2017

Commencement          : 8 October 2018 (section 200)

62. Act 12 of 2018 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) (Amendment)
                             Act 2018

Bill                  : 5/2018

First Reading         : 9 January 2018

Second and Third Readings : 6 February 2018

Commencement          : 1 January 2019 (except section 2)
                            21 October 2019 (section 2)

63. Act 11 of 2019 — Singapore Food Agency Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 66(4) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 5/2019

First Reading         : 15 January 2019

Second and Third Readings : 12 February 2019

Commencement          : 1 April 2019 (section 66(4))

64. Act 21 of 2019 — Home Team Science and Technology Agency Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 50 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 15/2019

First Reading         : 8 July 2019

Second and Third Readings : 6 August 2019

Commencement          : 1 December 2019 (section 50)

65. Act 15 of 2019 — Criminal Law Reform Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 172 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 6/2019

First Reading         : 11 February 2019

Second Reading        : 6 May 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 6 May 2019

Third Reading         : 6 May 2019

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                      xii

Commencement          : 1 January 2020 (section 172)

66. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 36 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 36 of the Schedule)

67. 2020 Revised Edition — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act 1955

Operation             : 31 December 2021

68. G.N. No. S 40/2022 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Rectification of Acts)
                                 Order 2022

Commencement          : 31 December 2021

Publication           : 21 January 2022

69. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021

Bill                  : 18/2021

First Reading         : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement          : 1 April 2022

70. Act 26 of 2022 — Registration of Criminals (Amendment) Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 19/2022

First Reading         : 1 August 2022

Second and Third Readings : 12 September 2022

Commencement          : 12 June 2023

71. G. N. No. S 480/2024 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act 1955
                                    (Amendment of Third Schedule)
                                    Notification 2024

Date of commencement  : 1 June 2024

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                      xiii

72. G. N. No. S 569/2024 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act 1955
                                    (Amendment of First Schedule)
                                    Notification 2024

Date of commencement  : 8 July 2024

73. Act 18 of 2024 — Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) (Amendment)
                             Act 2024

     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 13/2024

First Reading         : 7 March 2024

Second and Third Readings : 3 April 2024

Commencement          : 21 October 2024

74. Act 3 of 2021 — Guns, Explosives and Weapons Control Act 2021

Bill                  : 44/2020

First Reading         : 3 November 2020

Second and Third Readings : 5 January 2021

Commencement          : 1 July 2025

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                      COMPARATIVE TABLE
CRIMINAL LAW (TEMPORARY PROVISIONS) ACT 1955

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

        2020 Ed.           2000 Ed.

47—(6)            47—(5A)
   (7)               (6)

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
