THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                      CORONERS ACT 2010

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                                                                   2020 Ed.

         Coroners Act 2010

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Appointment of State Coroner and Coroners
     2.  Appointment of forensic pathologists
     3.
     4.

                                       PART 2

    REPORTING OF DEATH AND PRESERVING OF RECORDS

5. Obligation to report death
6. Reporting of death occurring in official custody
7. Reporting of death by police officer
8. Duty to preserve medical records by persons in charge of

       hospital, medical clinic and place of custody
9. Body not to be moved

                                        PART 3

                      INVESTIGATIONS INTO DEATHS

10. Investigations into deaths
11. Police officer to report to Coroner
12. Preliminary investigation by Coroner
13. Police officer to report to Public Prosecutor in certain cases
14. Duty of police officer to investigate cause of death if directed by

         Public Prosecutor
15. Power of police officer to investigate
16. Coroner or Public Prosecutor may direct forensic pathologist to

         investigate
17. Powers of forensic pathologist
17A. Minister may issue certificate in certain cases

                                                   1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Coroners Act 2010                                              2

          PART 4

          POST-MORTEM EXAMINATION AND POWERS OF
          CORONER TO ORDER BURIAL, CREMATION OR

                                  EXHUMATION

Section   When post-mortem examination necessary
          Conduct of post-mortem examination
   18.    Post-mortem examination report and special examination report
   19.    Power of Coroner to order exhumation
   20.    Power of Coroner to order release for burial, cremation, etc.
   21.    Coroner to report to Public Prosecutor if body is released
   22.    without inquiry
   23.

                                        PART 5

        CIRCUMSTANCES UNDER WHICH INQUIRY IS HELD

24. Jurisdiction of Coroner to hold inquiry
25. Duty of Coroner to hold inquiry
26. Power of Public Prosecutor to require inquiry

                                        PART 6

                            INQUIRIES INTO DEATH

27. Purpose of inquiry
28. Pre-inquiry review
29. Notice of inquiry
30. Summoning of witnesses and production of documents
31. Inquiries to be made public
32. Assessors
33. Evidence by conditioned statements
34. Reading over evidence and correction
35. Questioning of witnesses
36. Manner of recording evidence
37. Rules of evidence not applicable
38. Adjournment of inquiry
39. Adjournment of inquiry when criminal proceedings commenced
40. Adjournment of inquiry when commission or committee

         appointed under Inquiries Act 2007
41. Change of Coroner
42. Coroner’s certificate
43. Forwarding transcripts of evidence, etc.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
3        Coroners Act 2010                                             2020 Ed.

         PART 7

         MISCELLANEOUS

Section  Obstruction of Coroner, etc.
         Admissibility of evidence in subsequent judicial proceedings
   44.   Payment of allowance to witnesses
   45.   Amendment of Schedules
   46.   Exemption
   47.   Regulations
   48.   Saving and transitional provisions
   49.   First Schedule — Services provided by
   50.
                                   healthcare practitioner
         Second Schedule — Reportable deaths
         Third Schedule — Deaths for which inquiry must be held

An Act to consolidate the law relating to Coroners’ inquiries.
                                                              [2 January 2011]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Coroners Act 2010.

Interpretation
 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “body” means a dead person, and includes any part of a person
         (whether or not the identity of the person concerned is known
         when the part is discovered or is later determined) —
              (a) without which no person can live; or
              (b) discovered in such circumstances or such state that it
                   is probable that the person is dead,
         but does not include a foetus or a stillborn child within the
         meaning of the Registration of Births and Deaths Act 2021;

                                                                                 [Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Coroners Act 2010                                         4

“cause of death” includes not only the apparent cause of death as
   ascertainable by inspection or examination of the body, but
   also all matters necessary to enable an opinion to be formed
   as to the manner in which the deceased came by his or her
   death;

“Coroner” means a Coroner appointed under section 3(1), and
   includes the State Coroner;

“forensic pathologist” means a pathologist appointed under
   section 4(1) as a forensic pathologist;

“Health Sciences Authority” means the Health Sciences
   Authority established under section 3 of the Health
   Sciences Authority Act 2001;

“healthcare practitioner” means a person providing any of the
   services specified in the First Schedule, but does not include a
   medical practitioner;

“hospital” means any premises used or intended to be used for
   the reception, lodging, treatment and care of persons who
   require medical treatment or care or who suffer from any
   disease, injury or disability of mind or body, and includes a
   maternity home and a nursing home;

“inquiry” means an inquiry into any death held by a Coroner
   under Part 6;

“investigation” means an investigation into a death conducted
   by a police officer, a Coroner or a forensic pathologist, and
   includes any post-mortem examination;

“medical clinic” means any premises used or intended to be used
   by a medical practitioner, a healthcare practitioner or any
   other person —

          (a) for the diagnosis or treatment of persons suffering
               from, or believed to be suffering from, any disease,
               injury or disability of mind or body; or

          (b) for curing or alleviating any abnormal condition of
               the human body by the application of any apparatus,
               equipment, instrument or device,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
5  Coroners Act 2010                                         2020 Ed.

   but does not include a hospital;

   “medical practitioner” means a registered medical practitioner
      under the Medical Registration Act 1997 who has in force a
      practising certificate issued under that Act;

   “medical treatment or care” includes any operation or any
      surgical, diagnostic or therapeutic procedure;

   “pathologist” means a medical practitioner who is registered as a
      specialist in pathology under the Medical Registration
      Act 1997;

   “place of custody” means any place in which any person may
      lawfully be held, confined, detained or committed;

   “properly interested person” means —

   (a) any person who is a spouse or next-of-kin of the
        deceased;

   (b) any person who is a personal representative of the
        deceased; or

   (c) any other person who, in the opinion of the Coroner,
       should be regarded as a properly interested person by
       reason of any particular interest in an inquiry;

   “Registrar-General” means the Registrar-General of Births and
      Deaths appointed under the Registration of Births and Deaths
      Act 2021;

                                                                           [Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

   “reportable death” means any death the circumstances of which
      are set out in the Second Schedule;

   “Singapore-registered aircraft” means an aircraft registered in
      Singapore under the Air Navigation Act 1966;

   “Singapore-registered vessel” means a vessel registered in
      Singapore under the Merchant Shipping Act 1995;

   “State Coroner” means the State Coroner appointed under
      section 3(1).

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Coroners Act 2010                                         6

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a person is in official custody while
he or she is —

(a) held, confined, detained or committed under any written
     law in any place of custody;

(b) proceeding to or from any such place of custody in the
     company of a police officer or other person charged with
     the person’s custody; or

          (c) being taken into or escaping from such custody.

Appointment of State Coroner and Coroners

 3.—(1) The President may, on the recommendation of the Chief
Justice, appoint a State Coroner and such other Coroners as are
necessary for the proper administration of this Act.

 (2) Only —

       (a) a judicial officer appointed under the State Courts
            Act 1970 may be appointed a Coroner; and

       (b) a District Judge appointed under that Act may be appointed
            the State Coroner.

                                                                                                             [5/2014]

 (3) The State Coroner is charged with the general administration of
this Act and the exercise of the functions and duties imposed upon the
State Coroner by this Act.

 (4) The State Coroner may authorise or appoint any person to assist
him or her in the exercise of his or her functions and duties under this
Act whether generally or in any particular case.

 (5) Where the State Coroner is temporarily unable, whether by
illness, absence or any other reason, to perform the State Coroner’s
functions and duties for any period, the Presiding Judge of the State
Courts appointed under the State Courts Act 1970 may appoint
another Coroner to act as State Coroner for that period.

                                                                                                             [5/2014]

 (6) All appointments made under subsection (1) must be published
in the Gazette.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
7  Coroners Act 2010                                         2020 Ed.

Appointment of forensic pathologists

 4.—(1) The Chief Executive of the Health Sciences Authority may
appoint any pathologist as a forensic pathologist for the purposes of
this Act.

 (2) All appointments made under subsection (1) must be published
in the Gazette.

                                    PART 2

  REPORTING OF DEATH AND PRESERVING OF RECORDS

Obligation to report death

 5.—(1) Any person who becomes aware of a death which is, or
appears to be, a reportable death must, as soon as reasonably
practicable, make a report of the death to a police officer.

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, the burden of
proving which is on the accused in a prosecution, contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,500 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding one month or to both.

 (3) Nothing in this section or section 6 derogates from any other
obligation to report a death under any other written law.

Reporting of death occurring in official custody

 6.—(1) Where a person dies —

       (a) in the course of being arrested or detained by any person in
            the exercise, or purported exercise, of any power of arrest
            or detention under any written law; or

       (b) while he or she is in official custody,

it is the duty of —

       (c) the person exercising the power of arrest or detention;

       (d) the person in charge of the place of custody where the
            deceased died; or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Coroners Act 2010                                         8

          (e) if the deceased was outside the place of custody when he or
              she died, the person in whose official custody the deceased
              was at the time of his or her death,

as the case may be, to prepare and submit to a police officer a report of
the death within 24 hours upon the person becoming aware of that
death.

 (2) A report under subsection (1) is not required where the death is
the result of the lawful execution of a death sentence.

 (3) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, the burden of
proving which is on the accused in a prosecution, contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Reporting of death by police officer

 7. Every police officer who —

       (a) comes across; or

       (b) receives any information about,

a death which is, or appears to be, a reportable death must, as soon as
reasonably practicable, make a report at a police station giving details
of any information which the police officer obtains with regard to the
death.

Duty to preserve medical records by persons in charge of
hospital, medical clinic and place of custody

 8.—(1) Where a person dies —

       (a) while in any hospital or medical clinic for medical
            treatment or care; or

       (b) while he or she is in official custody,

the person in charge of the hospital, medical clinic or place of custody
(as the case may be) must preserve all medical records, healthcare
records and any other document pertaining to the medical treatment
or care of the deceased as are in the possession of the hospital,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
9  Coroners Act 2010                                         2020 Ed.

medical clinic or place of custody for such period as may be
prescribed.

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, the burden of
proving which is on the accused in a prosecution, fails to comply with
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Body not to be moved

 9.—(1) In the case of a reportable death, a person must not remove,
or in any manner alter the position of, a body unless the removal or
moving of the body is —

       (a) authorised by a police officer; or

       (b) necessary for the purpose of preventing any destruction or
            damage to the body.

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, the burden of
proving which is on the accused in a prosecution, contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                    PART 3

                  INVESTIGATIONS INTO DEATHS

Investigations into deaths

 10.—(1) A police officer who comes across or receives any
information about any death which is, or appears to be, a
reportable death must —

       (a) if the body is in Singapore, proceed immediately to the spot
            where the body is lying or the death is believed to have
            occurred; and

       (b) use his or her best endeavours to investigate the cause of
            and circumstances connected with the death of the
            deceased.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Coroners Act 2010                                         10

 (2) If the police officer is unable to comply with subsection (1), the
police officer must immediately inform his or her superior officer
who must depute some other police officer who must comply with
that subsection.

(3) Any police officer who has seen the body may —

(a) cause the body to be removed to any place that the police
     officer may direct, pending an order of a Coroner to release
     the body; or

(b) secure and preserve the scene where the body was found,
     pending further investigations.

Police officer to report to Coroner

 11.—(1) After a police officer has started investigations into a
death, he or she must, as soon as reasonably practicable, inform a
Coroner of the death and any particulars concerning the cause of
death which have come to the police officer’s knowledge.

 (2) The police officer investigating into the cause of death must —

       (a) from time to time, furnish the Coroner with any further
            particulars concerning the death that may subsequently
            come to the police officer’s knowledge, together with the
            name of any person who has been arrested and charged in
            connection with the death; and

       (b) comply with any directions that the Coroner may give
            concerning the investigation.

Preliminary investigation by Coroner

 12.—(1) As soon as possible after a death is reported to a Coroner,
the Coroner is to make a preliminary investigation into the cause of
and circumstances connected with the death, including whether the
death was due to natural causes.

 (2) In the preliminary investigation, a Coroner need not view the
body, but may, if the Coroner thinks it necessary, do so —

       (a) at the place where the body is lying, or any other place to
            which the body has been moved; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
11  Coroners Act 2010                                         2020 Ed.

    (b) by a live video link, or by any other means that the State
         Coroner may approve which reasonably allows the
         Coroner to view and identify the body.

 (3) If after the preliminary investigation, a Coroner considers that
the death was due to natural causes and that it is unnecessary to hold
an inquiry, the Coroner may issue an order under section 22 for the
release of the body.

                                                                               [Act 31 of 2021 wef 02/05/2023]

Police officer to report to Public Prosecutor in certain cases

 13. In any investigation under section 10, where a person has been
or may be arrested and charged in connection with the death, the
police officer investigating into the cause of death must —

       (a) as soon as reasonably practicable, inform the Public
            Prosecutor of the particulars concerning the cause of
            death which have come to the police officer’s knowledge;
            and

       (b) comply with any directions that the Public Prosecutor may
            give concerning the investigation.

Duty of police officer to investigate cause of death if directed by
Public Prosecutor

 14. A police officer must investigate into the cause of any death if
directed to do so by the Public Prosecutor.

Power of police officer to investigate

 15. In investigating into any death, a police officer may exercise all
or any of the powers conferred on him or her by the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010 or any other written law in relation to
investigations into an arrestable offence.

Coroner or Public Prosecutor may direct forensic pathologist
to investigate

 16.—(1) When a Coroner or the Public Prosecutor receives
information about the death of any person, the Coroner or the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Coroners Act 2010                                         12

Public Prosecutor may, if he or she considers it appropriate to do so,
direct —

(a) a forensic pathologist to investigate the cause of and
     circumstances connected with the death; and

(b) that a copy of all medical records, healthcare records and
     such other documents as may be relevant to the case be
     furnished by the person in charge of the hospital, medical
     clinic or place of custody mentioned in section 8 or any
     other person in possession thereof to the forensic
     pathologist.

 (2) The forensic pathologist must regularly inform the police
officer investigating the death, the Coroner and the Public Prosecutor
about the progress of his or her investigations and findings.

Powers of forensic pathologist

 17.—(1) A forensic pathologist making an investigation under
section 16 may —

       (a) view the body at the place where the body is lying or order
            the body to be removed to some more convenient place and
            view the body at that place;

       (b) require any medical practitioner or healthcare practitioner
            to furnish, within such time as the forensic pathologist may
            specify —

               (i) a detailed report, to the best of the medical
                   practitioner’s or healthcare practitioner’s
                   knowledge, on the medical treatment or care
                   rendered to the deceased before that person’s death;

              (ii) such medical records or healthcare records
                   pertaining to the medical treatment or care of the
                   deceased as the forensic pathologist may require; and

             (iii) any other information, substance or thing pertaining
                   to the medical treatment or care of the deceased in
                   the possession of the medical practitioner or
                   healthcare practitioner which the forensic

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
13  Coroners Act 2010                                         2020 Ed.

    pathologist considers necessary for the purposes of
    the investigation;

    (ba) request the Registrar to furnish, within such time as the
          forensic pathologist may specify, any information
          pertaining to the medical history, treatment or care of the
          deceased in the possession of the Registry that the forensic
          pathologist considers necessary for the purposes of the
          investigation; and

    (c) request the Coroner to direct the police to provide such
        assistance as the forensic pathologist may require to
        investigate the cause of and circumstances connected
        with the death.

 (2) Any medical practitioner or healthcare practitioner who is
required by a forensic pathologist under subsection (1)(b) to provide
any report, record, information, substance or thing and who —

    (a) without reasonable excuse, fails to provide the report,
         record, information, substance or thing;

    (b) provides any report, record or information which he or she
         knows or believes to be false or incomplete; or

    (c) tampers or destroys, or causes or permits the tampering or
        destruction of, any report, record, substance or thing
        pertaining to the medical treatment or care of the deceased,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (3) The Registrar, or any Registry officer, agent of the Registry or
other person who acts under the direction of the Registrar —

    (a) must comply with a request under subsection (1)(ba) to
         furnish information to the forensic pathologist, despite any
         restriction on the disclosure of information imposed by
         section 8 of the National Registry of Diseases Act 2007;
         and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Coroners Act 2010                                         14

(b) is not by so doing to be treated as being in breach of any
     such restriction, despite anything to the contrary in that
     section.

 (4) In this section, “agent of the Registry”, “Registrar”, “Registry”
and “Registry officer” have the meanings given by the National
Registry of Diseases Act 2007.

Minister may issue certificate in certain cases

 17A.—(1) Subject to subsection (5), where a reportable death has
occurred and the Minister is satisfied that all of the following
conditions are met, the Minister may issue a Minister’s certificate for
the release of the body in respect of the deceased:

       (a) the deceased —

               (i) had sustained an injury, contracted a disease or
                   suffered a condition, outside Singapore, that resulted
                   or apparently resulted in his or her death; or

              (ii) was, immediately before his or her death —

                    (A) a current or former head of state of a foreign
                          State;

                     (B) a current or former head of government of a
                          foreign State;

                     (C) a government minister of a foreign State;

                    (D) a government official of a foreign State;

                     (E) a spouse or child of a person mentioned in
                          sub‑paragraph (A), (B) or (C) or of a
                          diplomatic agent of a foreign State;

       (b) a foreign State (called in this section the requesting State)
            makes a request in the prescribed manner for a Minister’s
            certificate to be issued in respect of the deceased and gives
            any undertaking regarding the retention or transport of the
            body or any other matter that the Minister may require;

       (c) in the circumstances, and having regard to any undertaking
            given by the requesting State, it is not in the public interest

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
15  Coroners Act 2010                                         2020 Ed.

    for the provisions of this Act to apply or continue to apply
    in respect of the deceased.

 (2) In considering whether to issue a Minister’s certificate, the
Minister may —

    (a) have regard to information from any investigation that has
         been or is being carried out by a forensic pathologist under
         section 16 on the cause of and circumstances connected
         with the death;

    (b) direct a forensic pathologist to investigate the apparent
         cause of or circumstances connected with the death, upon
         which the forensic pathologist has the powers mentioned in
         section 17(1)(a), (b) and (ba) as if the forensic pathologist
         were making an investigation under section 16;

    (c) direct the police to provide any assistance that the forensic
        pathologist may require to carry out the investigation
        mentioned in paragraph (b); and

    (d) direct that a copy of all medical records, healthcare records
         and any other documents that may be relevant to the case
         be provided by the person in charge of the hospital,
         medical clinic or place of custody mentioned in section 8
         or any other person in possession thereof to the forensic
         pathologist mentioned in paragraph (b).

 (3) If a Minister’s certificate is issued in respect of a deceased at any
time after the death has been reported under section 5 and before the
Coroner issues a certificate mentioned in section 42, then as from the
date of the Minister’s certificate —

    (a) any investigation by any police officer or forensic
         pathologist under this Part for the purpose of
         ascertaining the cause of and circumstances connected
         with the death must stop;

    (b) if a post-mortem examination under section 18 has not
         been conducted, the post‑mortem examination must not be
         conducted;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Coroners Act 2010                                         16

          (c) despite sections 24 and 25, no inquiry may be held in
              respect of the death and the Public Prosecutor must not
              make any order or direction under section 26, but if an
              inquiry has begun but is not completed, the Coroner is to
              stop the inquiry and not resume the inquiry except in
              accordance with subsection (4);

(d) if the body has not been released, the body must be
     released immediately to the requesting State without an
     order of a Coroner under section 22; and

          (e) there is no need for the Coroner to issue a certificate under
              section 42 in respect of the death.

 (4) If the Minister revokes a Minister’s certificate, then as from the
date of the revocation —

(a) any investigation (including any post-mortem
     examination) or inquiry under this Act into the death of
     the deceased is to resume from the stage at which the
     investigation or inquiry was stopped;

(b) the body of the deceased must not be released to the
     requesting State under subsection (3)(d), but remains under
     the Coroner’s control under section 22;

          (c) if the body has been so released, the Coroner resumes
              control of the body under section 22 unless the body has
              been buried, cremated or transported out of Singapore; and

(d) a police officer may cause the body to be removed to any
     place that the police officer may direct, pending an order of
     the Coroner to release the body.

(5) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the operation of —
      (a) the Diplomatic and Consular Relations Act 2005*; or
      (b) section 11 of the Visiting Forces Act 1960*.

                                               [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

(6) In this section —

“child” means a person below 21 years of age;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
17  Coroners Act 2010                                         2020 Ed.

    “diplomatic agent” means a person who is accredited in any
       State or territory as the head of a mission or a member of the
       diplomatic staff of a mission;

    “foreign State” means a State or territory outside Singapore;

    “Minister’s certificate” means a certificate issued under
       subsection (1).

                                                                           [Act 31 of 2021 wef 02/05/2023]

                                    PART 4

       POST-MORTEM EXAMINATION AND POWERS OF
        CORONER TO ORDER BURIAL, CREMATION OR

                               EXHUMATION

When post-mortem examination necessary

 18.—(1) In a case of a death reported to a Coroner under section 11,
the Coroner may, after consulting a pathologist, order a post-mortem
examination to be conducted if the Coroner is of the opinion that a
post-mortem examination is necessary in the circumstances to
establish the manner and cause of death.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), a Coroner must order a post‑mortem
examination to be conducted if the Coroner is directed to do so by the
Public Prosecutor in any particular case.

Conduct of post-mortem examination

 19.—(1) A post-mortem examination may only be performed by —

       (a) a pathologist; or

       (b) a medical practitioner under the supervision of a
            pathologist.

 (2) A pathologist who conducts or supervises a post-mortem
examination may —

       (a) perform or cause to be performed any operation on the
            body that the pathologist thinks necessary, including
            causing any part or contents of the body or any other

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Coroners Act 2010                                         18

          substance or thing to be retained for the purpose of
          determining the manner or cause of death; and

(b) where necessary, appoint any person who in the
     pathologist’s opinion is qualified to make a special
     examination by way of an analysis, test or otherwise of
     any part or contents of the body or of any other substance
     or thing, and send such part, contents, substance or thing to
     that person for special examination.

 (3) The Coroner or the forensic pathologist investigating a case (if
any) may direct the person performing a post-mortem examination to
cause to be retained any part or contents of the body or any other
substance or thing which appears to the Coroner or forensic
pathologist to be relevant in establishing the manner or cause of
death.

Post-mortem examination report and special examination
report

 20.—(1) A pathologist who has conducted or supervised any
post‑mortem examination must —

       (a) draw up, or cause to be drawn up, a report of the findings of
            the post-mortem examination and of the conclusions which
            he or she draws from it;

       (b) certify as to the medical cause of death; and

       (c) date and sign the report and send it to the Coroner who
            ordered the post-mortem examination.

 (2) Where a person has been appointed under section 19(2)(b), he or
she must draw up a report of the findings of his or her special
examination, date and sign the report and send it to the Coroner who
ordered the post-mortem examination.

 (3) The post-mortem examination report made under subsection (1)
and any special examination report made under subsection (2) are
admissible as evidence, and are prima facie evidence of the facts
stated therein, at any inquiry held under this Act.

 (4) The pathologist who conducted or supervised the post‑mortem
examination or any person appointed under section 19(2)(b), if

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
19  Coroners Act 2010                                         2020 Ed.

summoned by the Coroner as a witness in an inquiry, may be asked to
give evidence as to his or her opinion upon any matter arising out of
the examination conducted or supervised by him or her and as to how
in his or her opinion the deceased came by his or her death.

Power of Coroner to order exhumation

 21. A Coroner may, and if directed to do so by the Public Prosecutor
under section 26(2) must, order the exhumation of a body, or the
remains of a body, for the purpose of discharging any of the Coroner’s
duties, or exercising any of the Coroner’s powers under this Act.

Power of Coroner to order release for burial, cremation, etc.

 22.—(1) Where a death which is, or appears to be, a reportable
death has been reported to a Coroner and the body is in Singapore, the
Coroner has control of the body until the earlier of the following
occurs:

       (a) the Minister issues a certificate in respect of the body under
            section 17A(1), unless the Minister’s certificate is revoked
            and the Coroner resumes control of the body by virtue of
            section 17A(4)(c);

       (b) the Coroner issues an order to release the body under
            subsection (3).

                                                                               [Act 31 of 2021 wef 02/05/2023]

 (2) If a post-mortem examination has been ordered on the body, the
Coroner may issue the order under subsection (3) only after the
post‑mortem examination has been concluded.

 (3) The Coroner may, whether or not he or she considers that an
inquiry is necessary, order the release of a body —

       (a) for burial or cremation;

       (b) for the body to be transported out of Singapore; or

       (c) for the retention of the body for use in any manner in
            accordance with law,

and if the Coroner so orders, must issue a certificate of his or her order
to release the body.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Coroners Act 2010                                         20

 (4) Where a reportable death has occurred or is suspected to have
occurred and the body is in Singapore, any person who, without
reasonable excuse, the burden of proving which is on the accused in a
prosecution —

(a) buries, cremates, transports out of Singapore or otherwise
     uses or disposes of that body; or

(b) causes that body to be buried, cremated, transported out of
     Singapore or otherwise used or disposed of,

without the certificate of the Minister mentioned in subsection (1)(a)
that has not been revoked or the order of a Coroner under
subsection (3), shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

                                                                               [Act 31 of 2021 wef 02/05/2023]

Coroner to report to Public Prosecutor if body is released
without inquiry

 23. In every case where a body is released by an order of a Coroner
under section 22 and no inquiry is held, the Coroner must report the
facts to the Public Prosecutor with the Coroner’s reasons for not
holding an inquiry.

                                    PART 5
    CIRCUMSTANCES UNDER WHICH INQUIRY IS HELD
Jurisdiction of Coroner to hold inquiry
 24.—(1) A Coroner has the jurisdiction to hold an inquiry to
determine the cause of death of any person where —

       (a) the body of the person is found in Singapore;
       (b) the death occurred in Singapore;
       (c) the cause of the death occurred in Singapore;

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
21                     Coroners Act 2010                      2020 Ed.

       (d) the death occurred on board, or as a result of an occurrence
            on board, a Singapore‑registered aircraft or
            Singapore‑registered vessel;

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

       (e) the death occurred (even if outside Singapore) on board, or
            as a result of an occurrence on board, a cross-border train
            when the person, at the time of death, was on a journey to
            or from somewhere in Singapore, and that cross-border
            train enters or returns to Singapore with the body of the
            deceased; or

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

        (f) the cause or suspected cause of the death (even if it
            occurred outside Singapore) is connected with a cross-
            border incident and the body of the deceased is sent to
            Singapore pursuant to incident management operations.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

 (2) The Coroner has the jurisdiction under subsection (1)(b), (c) and
(d) despite the absence of a body.

(3) In this section —

    “cross-border railway” and “cross-border train” have the
       meanings given by section 3(1) of the Cross-Border
       Railways (Border Control Co-location) Act 2026;

    “cross-border incident” and “incident management operations”
       have the meanings given by section 6(2) of the Cross-Border
       Railways (Border Control Co-location) Act 2026.

                                          [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

Duty of Coroner to hold inquiry

 25.—(1) A Coroner must hold an inquiry into any death which
occurred in Singapore where —

       (a) a person dies while in official custody;

       (b) the death was the result of the lawful execution of a death
            sentence in accordance with section 313(1)(m) of the
            Criminal Procedure Code 2010;

                                                                               [Act 41 of 2022 wef 28/06/2024]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Coroners Act 2010                                           22

          (c) the Public Prosecutor so requires under section 26; or

(d) the death occurred in any of the circumstances set out in the
     Third Schedule, unless the Coroner is satisfied that the
     death was due to natural causes.

 (2) A Coroner may decide not to hold an inquiry, in any other case
in which the Coroner has jurisdiction, if he or she is satisfied that —

(a) the death was due to natural causes and it is unnecessary to
     do so; or

(b) in the circumstances, it is not necessary in the public
     interest to do so.

 (3) In deciding whether to hold an inquiry, a Coroner may have
regard to the following matters:

(a) in the case of a death that appears to have been unnatural or
     violent, whether or not it appears to have been due to the
     action or inaction of any other person;

(b) the extent to which the drawing of attention to the
     circumstances of the death may be likely to reduce the
     chances of the occurrence of other deaths in similar
     circumstances;

          (c) the desire of any member of the immediate family of the
              deceased that an inquiry should be conducted;

(d) whether or not the death occurred outside Singapore where
     the death is not one mentioned in section 24(1)(e) or (f), or
     was caused by matters arising outside Singapore;

                                                                    [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

(e) whether or not an inquiry or investigation into the death
     has been or will be conducted by a coroner or a
     corresponding authority of a foreign country;

          (f) any other matter the Coroner thinks fit.

 (4) A Coroner who decides not to hold an inquiry into a death under
subsection (2) must report the facts to the Public Prosecutor with the
Coroner’s reasons for not holding an inquiry.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
23  Coroners Act 2010                                         2020 Ed.

Power of Public Prosecutor to require inquiry

 26.—(1) The Public Prosecutor may, in any case where a Coroner
has jurisdiction and the Public Prosecutor is satisfied that an inquiry
is necessary or desirable, require the Coroner to hold an inquiry into
the death of any person.

 (2) The Public Prosecutor may direct that a body be exhumed if the
Public Prosecutor is of the opinion that it is necessary to do so for the
purposes of the inquiry.

 (3) Even though proceedings at any inquiry may have been
concluded by a Coroner, where it appears to the Public Prosecutor
that further investigations are necessary, the Public Prosecutor may
direct the Coroner to re‑open the inquiry and make further
investigations, and the Coroner must comply with those directions
and then proceed in the same manner as if the proceedings at the
inquiry had not been concluded.

                                    PART 6

                        INQUIRIES INTO DEATH

Purpose of inquiry

 27.—(1) The purpose of an inquiry into the death of any person is to
inquire into the cause of and circumstances connected with the death
and, for that purpose, the proceedings and evidence at the inquiry
must be directed to ascertaining the following matters insofar as they
may be ascertained:

       (a) the identity of the deceased;

       (b) how, when and where the deceased came by his or her
            death.

 (2) A Coroner at an inquiry is not to frame a finding in such a way
as to determine any question of criminal, civil or disciplinary liability
but is not inhibited in the discharge of his or her functions by any
likelihood of liability being inferred from facts that the Coroner
determines or recommendations that the Coroner makes.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Coroners Act 2010                                         24

 (3) At the conclusion of the inquiry, the Coroner is to record his or
her findings as to the matters referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
subsection (1).

Pre-inquiry review

 28.—(1) A pre-inquiry review may be held by a Coroner before the
commencement of an inquiry.

 (2) The purpose of a pre-inquiry review is to settle the following
matters with a view to expediting the inquiry:

       (a) the filing of the investigation papers and any post-mortem
            examination report or special examination report made
            under section 20 for the inquiry;

       (b) any issues of fact or law for the inquiry;

       (c) the witnesses to be called to the inquiry;

       (d) the filing of any conditioned statements to be admitted in
            evidence in the inquiry;

       (e) the date of the inquiry;

        (f) any other application to be made for the inquiry.

 (3) A pre-inquiry review and any application made to the Coroner
at the pre-inquiry review may be heard by live video link, or by any
other means that the State Coroner may approve.

Notice of inquiry

 29.—(1) A Coroner who is to hold a pre-inquiry review or an
inquiry may cause a notice to be served on any properly interested
person.

 (2) Any such notice must state the date, time and place of the
pre‑inquiry review or inquiry and must be served on any properly
interested person within a reasonable period.

Summoning of witnesses and production of documents

 30.—(1) A Coroner has and may exercise all the powers of a
Magistrate’s Court with regard to —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
25  Coroners Act 2010                                         2020 Ed.

    (a) summoning and compelling the attendance of witnesses
         and requiring them to give evidence; and

    (b) the production of any document or thing,

at any inquiry held by the Coroner.

 (2) Every summons to appear, warrant of arrest or summons to
produce must be in writing signed by the Coroner and must bear the
seal of the court.

 (3) Such summons to appear or summons to produce must
ordinarily be served by a police officer, but the Coroner may, if he
or she sees fit, direct it to be served by some other person.

 (4) The provisions of section 38, Part 6 and section 235 of the
Criminal Procedure Code 2010 apply, with the necessary
modifications, in relation to summonses to appear, warrants of
arrest and summonses to produce issued by a Coroner.

Inquiries to be made public

 31.—(1) An inquiry is to be held in open court, unless a Coroner is
of the opinion that it is in the interests of justice, propriety, public
order or public security, or there is other sufficient reason, that the
public be excluded from the inquiry or any part of the inquiry.

 (2) Whenever an inquiry or part of an inquiry is not held in open
court, the Coroner must report his or her reasons for not so holding it
to the Public Prosecutor.

Assessors

 32.—(1) A Coroner may, if he or she considers it appropriate to do
so, appoint not more than 2 assessors with skill and experience in the
matter to which the inquiry relates to assist him or her in the hearing
of any inquiry.

 (2) Any assessor appointed under subsection (1) may sit with the
Coroner in the hearing of the inquiry and has the power to advise but
not to determine any matter relating to the inquiry.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Coroners Act 2010                                         26

 (3) The remuneration of any assessor sitting in an inquiry is payable
out of moneys provided by Parliament, at such rate as may be
prescribed.

Evidence by conditioned statements

 33.—(1) Despite anything in any written law, a written statement
made by any person summoned as a witness in any inquiry is
admissible as evidence at the inquiry to the same extent and to the
same effect as oral evidence by the person, if the following conditions
are satisfied:

       (a) the statement appears to be signed by the person who made
            it;

       (b) the statement contains a declaration by the person to the
            effect that it is true to the best of his or her knowledge and
            belief and that he or she made the statement knowing that,
            if it were given in evidence, he or she would be liable to
            prosecution if he or she stated in it anything he or she knew
            to be false or did not believe to be true.

 (2) The following provisions also apply to any written statement
given in evidence under this section:

       (a) if the statement is made by a person below 21 years of age,
            it must state his or her age;

       (b) if it is made by a person who cannot read it, it must be read
            to him or her before he or she signs it and must be
            accompanied by a declaration by the person who read the
            statement to him or her, stating that it was so read;

       (c) if it refers to any other document as an exhibit, it must be
            accompanied by a copy of that document or by information
            that will enable the Coroner to inspect that document or a
            copy of it.

 (3) Where a written statement made by any witness is admitted in
evidence under this section in an inquiry (called in this Act a
conditioned statement), the Coroner may call the person to give
evidence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
27  Coroners Act 2010                                         2020 Ed.

Reading over evidence and correction

 34.—(1) The conditioned statement (if any) of a witness in an
inquiry must be read over to him or her.

 (2) If the witness denies the correctness of any part of the
conditioned statement, the Coroner may, instead of correcting the
conditioned statement, make a memorandum on it of the objection
made to it by the witness and must add any remarks that the Coroner
thinks necessary.

 (3) If the witness does not understand English, the conditioned
statement must be interpreted for him or her into the language in
which it was given or in a language which the witness understands.

Questioning of witnesses

 35.—(1) Any properly interested person, and any other person who
has the permission of the Coroner to do so, may examine a witness in
person or by counsel.

 (2) Where at any inquiry the report of the pathologist who has
conducted or supervised a post-mortem examination of the body or
the report of a person who has made a special examination under
section 19(2)(b) is received in evidence, any person mentioned in
subsection (1) who desires to examine the maker of that report may
require the Coroner to summon that person as a witness, and the
Coroner must do so.

Manner of recording evidence

 36.—(1) The evidence given in any inquiry is to be recorded by the
Coroner in writing or in any other suitable form of recording whereby
the evidence can be reduced to a readable form.

 (2) Evidence recorded in writing or, if it is not recorded in writing,
the transcript of the evidence recorded, must be in English and signed
by the Coroner, and forms part of the record of the inquiry.

 (3) Evidence may be recorded in the form of question and answer or
in the form of a narrative, as the Coroner thinks fit.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Coroners Act 2010                                         28

Rules of evidence not applicable

 37. A Coroner holding an inquiry is not bound by the rules of
evidence and may conduct an inquiry in any manner the Coroner
reasonably thinks fit.

Adjournment of inquiry

 38. A Coroner holding an inquiry in any place may adjourn the
inquiry to another day and order the adjourned inquiry to be held in
the same or any other place.

Adjournment of inquiry when criminal proceedings
commenced

 39.—(1) If, before the conclusion of an inquiry by a Coroner, any
person is charged with any offence under —

       (a) Chapter 16 of the Penal Code 1871;

       (b) section 64, 65 or 66 of the Road Traffic Act 1961; or

       (c) Part 4 of the Workplace Safety and Health Act 2006,

in relation to an act which caused or could have caused the death
which is the subject of the inquiry, the Coroner is to adjourn the
inquiry until after the conclusion of the criminal proceedings.

 (2) Where a Coroner resumes an inquiry after the conclusion of the
criminal proceedings mentioned in subsection (1), the Coroner is to
continue with the inquiry from the stage at which it was adjourned,
provided that at the resumed inquiry no finding is to be made which is
inconsistent with the result of those criminal proceedings.

 (3) If, having regard to the result of the criminal proceedings
mentioned in subsection (1), there has been a finding in those
proceedings as to the cause of and circumstances connected with the
death, and the Coroner decides not to resume the inquiry, the Coroner
is to —

       (a) endorse the Coroner’s record and the certificate required
            under section 42 accordingly; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
29  Coroners Act 2010                                         2020 Ed.

    (b) send to the Public Prosecutor and the Commissioner of
         Police each a copy of the certificate mentioned in
         section 42.

 (4) Where an inquiry is adjourned under subsection (1), it is the
duty of —

    (a) the District Judge or Magistrate before whom the criminal
         proceedings mentioned in subsection (1) are concluded; or

    (b) the Registrar of the Supreme Court, in the case of any
         criminal proceedings before the General Division of the
         High Court or the Court of Appeal,

to inform the Coroner responsible for holding the inquiry of the result
of the criminal proceedings in relation to the subject of the inquiry.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (5) In this section, “criminal proceedings” means the proceedings
before —

    (a) a Magistrate at any committal proceeding;

    (b) any court by which a person is tried; or

    (c) any court before which an appeal from the decision of the
        court mentioned in paragraph (b) is heard,

and criminal proceedings are not to be deemed to be concluded until
no further appeal can be made in the course of them.

Adjournment of inquiry when commission or committee
appointed under Inquiries Act 2007

 40.—(1) If, before the conclusion of an inquiry by a Coroner, a
commission of inquiry or committee of inquiry is appointed under the
Inquiries Act 2007 to inquire into any matter relating to the cause of
or circumstances connected with the death which is the subject of the
Coroner’s inquiry, the Coroner is to adjourn his or her inquiry until
after the conclusion of the inquiry by that commission or committee.

 (2) Where a Coroner resumes his or her inquiry after the conclusion
of the inquiry by the commission or committee mentioned in
subsection (1), the Coroner is to continue with his or her inquiry
from the stage at which it was adjourned, and may have regard to any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Coroners Act 2010                                         30

report or finding by the commission or committee which the Coroner
considers relevant to his or her inquiry.

 (3) If, having regard to the report of the inquiry by the commission
or committee mentioned in subsection (1), there has been a finding in
that inquiry as to the cause of and circumstances connected with the
death, and the Coroner decides not to resume his or her inquiry, the
Coroner is to —

(a) endorse the Coroner’s record and the certificate required
     under section 42 accordingly; and

(b) send to the Public Prosecutor and the Commissioner of
     Police each a copy of the certificate mentioned in
     section 42.

Change of Coroner

 41. If a Coroner —

       (a) who has viewed a body or has authorised the release of the
            body is unable to hold the inquiry himself or herself;

       (b) is at any time unable to complete the inquiry himself or
            herself; or

       (c) is unable to re-open an inquiry previously concluded by
            himself or herself when so directed by the Public
            Prosecutor under section 26(3),

another Coroner may hold, continue or re-open the inquiry (as the
case may be) and may proceed as if that other Coroner had viewed the
body or recorded all the evidence at the inquiry himself or herself.

Coroner’s certificate

 42.—(1) Where an inquiry is held into the death of any person, the
Coroner must complete and sign a certificate setting out the cause of
death as found at the inquiry and must, within 48 hours after the
conclusion of the inquiry, forward a copy of the certificate to —

       (a) the Registrar-General, together with such other particulars
            as are required by the Registrar‑General for the purpose of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
31  Coroners Act 2010                                         2020 Ed.

         registering the death under the Registration of Births and
         Deaths Act 2021; and

                                                                          [Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

    (b) the Public Prosecutor.

 (2) In any case where a reportable death has occurred in Singapore
and the Coroner has decided not to hold an inquiry into the death
under section 25(2), the Coroner must, after considering the results of
the investigations into the death —

    (a) complete and sign a certificate setting out the cause of
         death based on the evidence before him or her; and

    (b) within 48 hours after signing the certificate, forward a copy
         of the certificate to the Registrar-General and the Public
         Prosecutor in accordance with subsection (1).

 (3) To avoid doubt, a Coroner may issue a certificate under this
section in the absence of a body.

Forwarding transcripts of evidence, etc.

 43. At the conclusion of any inquiry, including an adjourned
inquiry which is not resumed, the Coroner must, at the request of the
Public Prosecutor, deliver to the Public Prosecutor —

       (a) the transcript of the evidence recorded and conditioned
            statements admitted at the inquiry;

       (b) any exhibit produced in evidence; and

       (c) a list signed by the Coroner of all exhibits produced in
            evidence.

                                    PART 7

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Obstruction of Coroner, etc.

 44.—(1) Any person who wilfully obstructs, resists or delays a
Coroner or a forensic pathologist in the performance and execution of
his or her duty or of anything which he or she is empowered or
required to do under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Coroners Act 2010                                         32

liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (2) In this section, “Coroner” includes any person authorised or
appointed under section 3(4) and any person lawfully assisting a
Coroner in the performance and execution of the Coroner’s duties or
functions under this Act.

Admissibility of evidence in subsequent judicial proceedings

 45. No oral testimony or conditioned statement admitted under
section 33 in the course of an inquiry is admissible in any subsequent
judicial or disciplinary proceedings as evidence of any fact stated
therein, other than proceedings for an offence under this Act or an
offence of giving or fabricating false evidence under any written law.

Payment of allowance to witnesses

 46. A Coroner holding an inquiry may order payment out of the
Consolidated Fund to any of the witnesses as the Coroner thinks fit, of
the expenses incurred by them in attending that inquiry and also
compensation for their trouble and loss of time, subject to any rules
that may be prescribed under the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 in
relation to the payment of witnesses’ expenses.

Amendment of Schedules

 47.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend, add to
or vary the First, Second or Third Schedule.

 (2) The Minister may, in any order made under subsection (1),
make such incidental, consequential or supplementary provision as
may be necessary or expedient.

 (3) Any order made under subsection (1) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Exemption

 48. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person
or class of persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act,
subject to such terms and conditions as may be prescribed.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
33           Coroners Act 2010                                2020 Ed.

Regulations

 49.—(1) The Minister may, from time to time, make regulations
generally for carrying out or giving effect to the purposes and
provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may make
regulations for or with respect to all or any of the following matters:

    (a) the procedure or practice for the conduct of any inquiry
         before a Coroner, including provisions relating to the mode
         of taking or recording evidence during an inquiry;

    (b) the rate for remuneration of assessors appointed to assist a
         Coroner;

    (c) the prescribing of anything required or permitted to be
        prescribed under this Act.

Saving and transitional provisions

 50.—(1) A person who, immediately before 2 January 2011, was a
Coroner appointed under section 10 of the Subordinate Courts Act
(Cap. 321, 2007 Revised Edition) as in force immediately before
2 January 2011 is deemed to be a Coroner appointed under
section 3(1) of this Act.

                                                                                                             [5/2014]

 (2) The provisions of this Act apply in relation to any investigation
or inquiry into the death of any person conducted on or after 2 January
2011, whether the death of the person occurred before, on or after
2 January 2011.

                          FIRST SCHEDULE             Sections 2(1) and 47(1)

                            SERVICES PROVIDED BY
                         HEALTHCARE PRACTITIONER
1. Medical, dental or nursing services.
2. Pharmacy services.
3. Ambulance services.
4. Services provided by optometrists and opticians.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Coroners Act 2010                                          34

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

5. Services provided by traditional Chinese medicine practitioners.

6. Services provided by podiatrists, chiropractors, osteopaths, physiotherapists,
   acupuncturists, naturopaths and services in other alternative healthcare
   fields.

                           SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                            Sections 2(1) and 47(1)

                                  REPORTABLE DEATHS

   1. Death in Singapore of a person whose identity is not known.

   2. Any death in Singapore that was unnatural or violent.

   3. Any death in Singapore that resulted or is suspected to have resulted, directly
       or indirectly, from an accident.

   4. Any death in Singapore that occurred, directly or indirectly, as a result of any
       medical treatment or care.

   5. Death in Singapore of a person while the person was in official custody,
       except death as a result of the lawful execution of a death sentence.

   6. Death in Singapore of a person where the person was, before his or her death,
       in official custody and where the death was related, or suspected to be
       related, to that custody.

   7. Any death in Singapore occurring apparently or possibly as a consequence of
       any law enforcement operation.

   8. Any death in Singapore occurring as a result of any accident or dangerous
       occurrence at a workplace to which the Workplace Safety and Health
       Act 2006 applies.

   9. Any death in Singapore involving a public vehicle, commercial transport
       vehicle, rapid transit system or other mode of public transport.

  10. Any death on board a Singapore-registered vessel or a Singapore‑registered
       aircraft while in flight.

10A. Any death mentioned in section 24(1)(e) or (f).

                                                                                [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

  11. Any death in Singapore that was caused or suspected to have been caused by
       an unlawful act or omission.

  12. Any death in Singapore the manner or cause of which is unknown.

  13. Any death in Singapore that occurred under suspicious circumstances.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
35  Coroners Act 2010                                         2020 Ed.

    THIRD SCHEDULE

                                                                                      Sections 25(1) and 47(1)

             DEATHS FOR WHICH INQUIRY MUST BE HELD
1. Death in Singapore of a person whose identity is not known.
2. [Deleted by S 255/2023 wef 02/05/2023]

3. Death in Singapore of a person where the person was, before his or her death,
   in official custody and where the death was related, or suspected to be
   related, to that custody.

4. Any death in Singapore occurring apparently or possibly as a consequence of
   any law enforcement operation.

5. Any death in Singapore occurring as a result of any accident or dangerous
   occurrence at a workplace to which the Workplace Safety and Health
   Act 2006 applies.

6. [Deleted by S 255/2023 wef 02/05/2023]
7. Any death in Singapore that was caused or suspected to have been caused by

   an unlawful act or omission.
8. Any death in Singapore the manner or cause of which is unknown.
9. Any death in Singapore that occurred under suspicious circumstances.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                 CORONERS ACT 2010

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 14 of 2010 — Coroners Act 2010

Bill                  : 10/2010

First Reading         : 26 April 2010

Second and Third Readings : 19 May 2010

Commencement          : 2 January 2011

2. G.N. No. S 712/2011 — Coroners Act (Amendment of Second and Third
                                  Schedules) Order 2011

Commencement          : 1 January 2012

3. Act 2 of 2012 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2012
   (Amendments made by section 19 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 22/2011

First Reading         : 21 November 2011

Second Reading        : 18 January 2012

Notice of Amendments  : 18 January 2012

Third Reading         : 18 January 2012

Commencement          : 1 March 2012 (section 19)

4. 2012 Revised Edition — Coroners Act (Chapter 63A)

Operation             : 31 October 2012

5. Act 5 of 2014 — Subordinate Courts (Amendment) Act 2014
   (Amendments made by section 11(2) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 26/2013

First Reading         : 11 November 2013

Second and Third Readings : 21 January 2014

Commencement          : 7 March 2014 (section 11(2)(a) and
                            (c))
                            14 April 2014 (section 11(2)(b))

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                      ii

6. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 34 of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 34 of the Schedule)

7. 2020 Revised Edition — Coroners Act 2010

Operation             : 31 December 2021

8. Act 31 of 2021 — Coroners (Amendment) Act 2021

Bill                  : 26/2021

First Reading         : 13 September 2021

Second and Third Readings : 5 October 2021

Commencement          : 2 May 2023

9. G.N. No. S 255/2023 — Coroners Act 2010 (Amendment of Third
                                   Schedule) Order 2023

Commencement          : 2 May 2023

10. Act 2 of 2024 — Stillbirths and Births (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act
                          2024

Bill                  : 39/2023

First Reading         : 7 November 2023

Second and Third Readings : 9 January 2024

Commencement          : 16 April 2024

11. Act 41 of 2022 — Post-appeal Applications in Capital Cases Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 34/2022

First Reading         : 7 November 2022

Second and Third Readings : 29 November 2022

Commencement          : 28 June 2024

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
               iii

12. Act 16 of 2026 — Cross-Border Railways (Border Control Co-location)
                             Act 2026

     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 10/2026

First Reading  : 7 April 2026

Second and Third Readings : 5 May 2026

Commencement   : 30 September 2026

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
