Western Australia
Evidence Act 2025
Western Australia
Evidence Act 2025
Contents
Western Australia
Evidence Act 2025
No. 15 of 2025
An Act —
to provide for the law of evidence; and
to repeal the Evidence Act 1906 and regulations made under that Act; and
to make consequential amendments to various Acts.
[Assented to 25 September 2025]
The Parliament of Western Australia enacts as follows:
	Part 1 — Preliminary
	Division 1 — Introduction
1.	Short title
This is the Evidence Act 2025.
2.	Commencement
This Act comes into operation as follows —
(a)	Part 1 — on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent;
(b)	Part 10 (but only section 384) — on the day after the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent;
(c)	Part 12 Division 1 —
(i)	if the Aquatic Resources Management Act 2016 section 240 comes into operation on or before the day fixed under paragraph (e) for section 386 — on the day fixed under paragraph (e) for section 386; or
(ii)	otherwise — immediately after the Aquatic Resources Management Act 2016 section 240 comes into operation;
(d)	Part 12 Division 17 —
(i)	if the Privacy and Responsible Information Sharing Act 2024 section 158 comes into operation on or before the day fixed under paragraph (e) for section 386 — on the day fixed under paragraph (e) for section 386; or
(ii)	otherwise — immediately after the Privacy and Responsible Information Sharing Act 2024 section 158 comes into operation;
(e)	the rest of the Act — on a day fixed by proclamation, and different days may be fixed for different provisions.
	Division 2 — Interpretation
3.	Terms used
(1)	In this Act —
accused means a person alleged in a prosecution notice or indictment to have committed an offence;
admission means a previous representation that is —
(a)	made by a person who is or becomes a party to a proceeding (including an accused in a criminal proceeding); and
(b)	adverse to the person’s interest in the outcome of the proceeding;
asserted fact has the meaning given in section 72(1);
audio link means facilities (including telephone) that enable, at the same time, a court at a place to hear a person at another place and vice versa;
Australia includes each external Territory;
Australian court means —
(a)	the High Court of Australia; or
(b)	a court exercising federal jurisdiction; or
(c)	a court of a State or Territory; or
(d)	a judge, justice or arbitrator under an Australian law; or
(e)	a person or body authorised by an Australian law, or by consent of parties, to hear, receive and examine evidence; or
(f)	a person or body that, in exercising a function under an Australian law, is required to apply the laws of evidence;
Australian law means a law of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory;
Australian or overseas proceeding means a proceeding (however described) in an Australian court or a foreign court;
Australian Parliament means —
(a)	the Parliament; or
(b)	the Parliament of the Commonwealth or of another State; or
(c)	any present or former Legislative Assembly of a Territory, including the Australian Capital Territory House of Assembly;
business has a meaning affected by section 4;
case, of a party, means the facts in issue in respect of which the party bears the legal burden of proof;
child means —
(a)	a person under 18 years of age; or
(b)	a person referred to in paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of the definition of child in the Children’s Court of Western Australia Act 1988 section 3(1);
civil proceeding means a proceeding other than a criminal proceeding;
client has a meaning affected by section 148(1);
co-accused, in relation to an accused in a criminal proceeding, means a person against whom a prosecution has been instituted, but not yet completed or terminated, for —
(a)	an offence that arose in relation to the same events as those in relation to which the offence for which the accused is being prosecuted arose; or
(b)	an offence that relates to or is connected with the offence for which the accused is being prosecuted;
coincidence evidence means evidence of a kind referred to in section 115(1) that a party seeks to have adduced for the purpose referred to in that subsection;
coincidence rule means the rule of evidence provided for by section 115(1);
complainant —
(a)	in relation to an offence — means a person against or in respect of whom the offence was or is alleged to have been committed, attempted or proposed, regardless of whether a complaint about the offence has been made to or recorded by a police officer; and
(b)	in a criminal proceeding — means the person against or in respect of whom the offence the subject of the proceeding was or is alleged to have been committed, attempted or proposed;
court means —
(a)	the Supreme Court, the District Court, the Children’s Court, the Family Court, the Magistrates Court, a warden’s court under the Mining Act 1978 or a court of summary jurisdiction (as defined in the Criminal Procedure Act 2004 section 3(1)); or
(b)	the Coroner’s Court of Western Australia; or
(c)	any other court created by Parliament; or
(d)	any person or body that, in exercising a function under a written law, is required to apply the laws of evidence;
credibility, of a person who has made a representation that has been admitted in evidence —
(a)	means the credibility of the representation; and
(b)	includes the person’s ability to observe or remember facts and events about which the person made the representation;
credibility, of a witness —
(a)	means the credibility of any part or all of the evidence of the witness; and
(b)	includes the witness’s ability to observe or remember facts and events about which the witness has given, is giving or is to give evidence;
credibility rule means the rule of evidence provided for by section 120;
criminal or identified organisation means —
(a)	a criminal organisation as defined in The Criminal Code section 221D(1); or
(b)	an organisation named in the Criminal Law (Unlawful Consorting and Prohibited Insignia) Act 2021 Schedule 2;
criminal or identified organisation offence means an offence alleged to have been committed —
(a)	by a person who, at the time of the commission of the alleged offence, is alleged to have been a member of a criminal or identified organisation; or
(b)	at the direction of a criminal or identified organisation; or
(c)	in association with 1 or more members of a criminal or identified organisation (whether or not those members are or have been charged with, or convicted of, the offence); or
(d)	for the benefit of a criminal or identified organisation;
criminal proceeding —
(a)	means a prosecution for an offence, other than a prescribed taxation offence as defined in the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Commonwealth) section 8A; and
(b)	includes the following stages of a prosecution —
(i)	a proceeding for the committal of a person for trial or sentence for the offence;
(ii)	a proceeding relating to bail;
cross-examination has the meaning given in section 5(2);
cross-examiner means a party who is cross-examining a witness;
disability includes the following —
(a)	mental impairment;
(b)	a developmental disorder;
(c)	a neurological disorder;
(d)	a physical disability;
document has the meaning given in section 6(1) and (2);
electronic communication has the meaning given in the Electronic Transactions Act 2011 section 5(1);
examination in chief has the meaning given in section 5(1);
external Territory has the meaning given in the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 (Commonwealth) section 2B;
family violence has the meaning given in the Restraining Orders Act 1997 section 5A;
family violence offence means an offence that involves family violence or the threat of, or attempted, family violence;
foreign court means any court (including any person or body authorised to take or receive evidence, whether on behalf of a court or otherwise and whether or not the person or body has power to require the answering of questions or the production of documents) of a foreign country or a part of a foreign country;
government or official gazette includes the Gazette;
government or official website includes the WA legislation website;
ground rules hearing has the meaning given in section 295(1);
harm includes actual physical bodily harm, financial loss, stress or shock, damage to reputation or emotional or psychological harm (such as shame, humiliation and fear);
hearsay rule means the rule of evidence provided for by section 72(1);
identification evidence has the meaning given in section 133;
investigating official means —
(a)	a police officer (other than a police officer who is engaged in covert investigations under the orders of a superior); or
(b)	a person appointed by or under an Australian law (other than a person who is engaged in covert investigations under the orders of a superior) whose functions include functions in respect of the prevention or investigation of offences;
judge, in relation to a proceeding, means the judge, magistrate or other person before whom the proceeding is being held;
law, of the State, the Commonwealth, another State, a Territory or a foreign country, has the meaning given in section 10;
leading question means a question asked of a witness that —
(a)	directly or indirectly suggests a particular answer to the question; or
(b)	assumes the existence of a fact the existence of which is in dispute in the proceeding and as to the existence of which the witness has not given evidence before the question is asked;
legal counsel means —
(a)	a legal practitioner; or
(b)	a lawyer employed in or by a government agency or other body who by law is exempted from holding an Australian practising certificate (as defined in the Legal Profession Uniform Law (WA) section 6(1)), or who does not require an Australian practising certificate, to engage in legal practice in the course of that employment;
mental impairment has the meaning given in the Criminal Law (Mental Impairment) Act 2023 section 9(1);
minister of religion —
(a)	means a person who is recognised in accordance with the practices of a faith or religion as a person who is authorised to conduct services or ceremonies in accordance with the tenets of the faith or religion; and
(b)	includes such a person regardless of how the person’s position or title is described (for example, member of the clergy, priest, minister, imam, rabbi or pastor);
offence —
(a)	means an offence against or arising under an Australian law; and
(b)	includes an alleged offence;
offspring, of a person, has the meaning given in section 13(1);
opinion rule means the rule of evidence provided for by section 90(1);
parent, of a person, has a meaning affected by section 13;
party, in a criminal proceeding, includes an accused;
person acting judicially —
(a)	means any person or body having, in this State, by law or by consent of the parties, authority to hear, receive and examine evidence; but
(b)	does not include —
(i)	the State Administrative Tribunal or a member of the State Administrative Tribunal exercising the jurisdiction of the Tribunal; or
(ii)	a member of a House of Parliament or a committee of a House, or both Houses, of Parliament who, by law, has authority to hear, receive and examine evidence;
police officer means —
(a)	a member or special member of the Australian Federal Police; or
(b)	a member of the police force of a State or Territory;
previous representation means a representation made otherwise than in the course of giving evidence in the proceeding in which evidence of the representation is sought to be adduced;
prior consistent statement, of a witness, means a previous representation of the witness that is consistent with evidence given by the witness;
prior inconsistent statement, of a witness, means a previous representation of the witness that is inconsistent with evidence given by the witness;
probative value, of evidence, means the extent to which the evidence could rationally affect the assessment of the probability of the existence of a fact in issue;
proceeding includes a proceeding that —
(a)	relates to bail; or
(b)	is an interlocutory proceeding or proceeding of a similar kind; or
(c)	is heard in chambers; or
(d)	relates to sentencing;
prosecutor means a person who institutes or is responsible for the conduct of a prosecution;
protected communication has the meaning given in section 165(1);
public document has the meaning given in section 6(3) and (4);
publish means to disseminate to the public or a section of the public by any means, including the following —
(a)	in a newspaper or periodical publication;
(b)	by radio broadcast, television, a website, an online facility or other electronic means;
re-examination has the meaning given in section 5(3);
related proceeding, in relation to another proceeding, means —
(a)	a retrial or rehearing of the other proceeding; or
(b)	a proceeding by way of appeal from, or judicial review of, a decision made or penalty imposed in the other proceeding;
representation includes the following —
(a)	an express or implied representation (whether oral or in writing);
(b)	a representation to be inferred from conduct;
(c)	a representation not intended by its maker to be communicated to or seen by another person;
(d)	a representation that for any reason is not communicated;
screening procedure means a procedure that involves the use of a screen, one-way glass or other device in relation to a witness while the witness gives evidence in a proceeding so that —
(a)	the witness cannot see a party to the proceeding; and
(b)	the witness can be seen by the judge, the jury (if any), each party to the proceeding and each party’s legal counsel (if any);
seal includes a stamp;
sexual abuse includes any misconduct of a sexual nature;
sexual offence means the following —
(a)	an offence under The Criminal Code Chapter XXXI;
(b)	an offence of a sexual nature under The Criminal Code Chapter XXII, XXV, XXVA or XXXIIIB;
(c)	an offence under a provision of The Criminal Code or another written law that has been repealed, if the acts or omissions that constituted the offence under the repealed provision would constitute an offence referred to in paragraph (a) or (b);
(d)	any other offence of a sexual nature —
(i)	including an offence under The Criminal Code section 306 or the Children and Community Services Act 2004 section 192; but
(ii)	not including conduct of a person that has ceased to be an offence against, or arising under, a law of this State since the time when the person engaged in the conduct;
(e)	an offence of attempting to commit, conspiring with another person to commit, inciting another person to commit or attempting to procure another person to commit an offence referred to in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d);
sexual offence complainant means a complainant in relation to a sexual offence;
special witness has the meaning given in section 228(1);
superior court means the Supreme Court, the District Court or the Family Court, except when exercising federal jurisdiction;
tendency evidence means evidence of a kind referred to in section 113(1) that a party seeks to have adduced for the purpose referred to in that subsection;
tendency rule means the rule of evidence provided for by section 113(1);
traditional laws and customs, of an Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander group (including a kinship group), includes any of the traditions, customary laws, customs, observances, practices, knowledge and beliefs of the group;
tribunal, of a State or Territory, means a person or body authorised by or under a law of the State or Territory to take evidence on oath or affirmation;
video link means facilities (including closed-circuit television) that enable, at the same time, a court at a place to see and hear a person at another place and vice versa;
video link separation procedure means a procedure for giving evidence under which —
(a)	a witness gives evidence at a separate place to the courtroom, while the evidence is transmitted to the courtroom by means of a video link; or
(b)	a party is required to remain in a separate place to the courtroom while a witness gives evidence in the courtroom and the evidence of the witness is transmitted by means of video link to the place in which the party remains while the evidence is given;
WA tribunal —
(a)	means a tribunal established in this State under a written law; but
(b)	does not include the State Administrative Tribunal;
witness includes —
(a)	a party giving evidence; and
(b)	a person who is to give evidence as a witness in a proceeding.
(2)	A reference in this Act to a witness who has been called by a party to give evidence includes a reference to the party giving evidence.
(3)	In this Act —
(a)	a reference to a person appointed or holding office under or because of a law of the State or another Australian law includes a reference to an employee as defined in the Public Sector Management Act 1994 section 3(1); and
(b)	a reference to a person appointed or holding office under or because of a law of the Commonwealth or another Australian law includes a reference to an APS employee as defined in the Public Service Act 1999 (Commonwealth) section 7; and
(c)	for the purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b), a reference to an office is a reference to the position occupied by the employee concerned.
(4)	Without limiting the effect of the Interpretation Act 1984 section 19, the material that may be considered in accordance with that section in the interpretation of a provision of this Act includes any relevant report of a Law Reform Commission laid before either House of the Parliament of the Commonwealth before the provision was enacted.
Note for this section:
The Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) sets out a law of evidence that is the basis for similar (but not identical) Acts that have been enacted in some States and Territories. These Acts are referred to as the uniform evidence law. Parts of this Act are based on uniform evidence law provisions, as in force at 1 January 2025.
Parts of this Act are based on provisions of the Evidence Act 1906, which is repealed by this Act.
A note that compares a provision of this Act to a specified provision of the Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth), the Evidence Act 1995 (New South Wales) or the Evidence Act 1906 indicates that the provision of this Act is based (in whole or in part, and with possible modifications) on the specified provision.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 3, 109 and 120
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) Dictionary
4.	References to business
(1)	A reference in this Act to a business includes a reference to the following —
(a)	a profession, calling, occupation, trade or undertaking;
(b)	an activity engaged in or carried on by the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory;
(c)	an activity engaged in or carried on by the government of a foreign country;
(d)	an activity engaged in or carried on by a person or body holding office or exercising power under or because of the Commonwealth Constitution, an Australian law or a law of a foreign country, being an activity engaged in or carried on in the performance of the functions of the office or in the exercise of the power (otherwise than in a private capacity);
(e)	the proceedings of an Australian Parliament, a House of an Australian Parliament, a committee of a House of an Australian Parliament or a committee of an Australian Parliament;
(f)	the proceedings of a legislature of a foreign country, including a House or committee (however described) of a legislature of a foreign country.
(2)	A reference in this Act to a business also includes a reference to each of the following —
(a)	a business that is not engaged in or carried on for profit;
(b)	a business engaged in or carried on outside Australia.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) Dictionary Part 2 cl. 1
5.	Examination in chief, cross-examination and re-examination
(1)	The examination in chief of a witness is the questioning of a witness by the party who called the witness to give evidence, not being questioning that is re-examination.
(2)	The cross-examination of a witness is the questioning of a witness by a party other than the party who called the witness to give evidence.
(3)	The re-examination of a witness is the questioning of a witness by the party who called the witness to give evidence, being questioning (other than further examination in chief with the leave of the court) conducted after the cross-examination of the witness by another party.
(4)	If a party recalls a witness who has already given evidence, the questioning of the witness by that party before the witness is questioned by another party is taken to be part of the examination in chief and not a re-examination of the witness.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) Dictionary Part 2 cl. 2
6.	References to documents
(1)	A document is any record of information, and includes the following —
(a)	anything on which there is writing;
(b)	anything on which there are marks, figures, symbols or perforations having a meaning for persons qualified to interpret them;
(c)	anything from which sounds, images or writings can be reproduced with or without the aid of anything else;
(d)	a map, plan, drawing or photograph.
(2)	A document also includes the following —
(a)	any part of the document;
(b)	any copy, reproduction or duplicate of the document or of any part of the document;
(c)	any part of a copy, reproduction or duplicate of a document.
(3)	A public document is a document that —
(a)	forms part of the records of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory; or
(b)	forms part of the records of the government of a foreign country; or
(c)	forms part of the records of a person or body holding office or exercising a function under or because of the Commonwealth Constitution, an Australian law or a law of a foreign country; or
(d)	is being kept by or on behalf of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory, a government of a foreign country or a person or body referred to in paragraph (c).
(4)	A public document includes the records of the proceedings of, and papers presented to —
(a)	an Australian Parliament, a House of an Australian Parliament, a committee of a House of an Australian Parliament or a committee of an Australian Parliament; and
(b)	a legislature of a foreign country, including a House or committee (however described) of a legislature of a foreign country.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) Dictionary Part 1 and Part 2 cl. 8
7.	Representations made in documents
For the purposes of this Act, a representation contained in a document is taken to have been made by a person if —
(a)	the document was written, made or otherwise produced by the person; or
(b)	the representation was recognised or acknowledged by the person as the person’s representation by signing, initialling or otherwise marking the document.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) Dictionary Part 2 cl. 6
8.	References to availability of documents and things
For the purposes of this Act, a document or thing is taken not to be available to a party if and only if —
(a)	it cannot be found after reasonable inquiry and search by the party; or
(b)	it was destroyed by the party, or by a person on behalf of the party, otherwise than in bad faith, or was destroyed by another person; or
(c)	it would be impractical to produce the document or thing during the course of the proceeding; or
(d)	production of the document or thing during the course of the proceeding could render a person liable to conviction for an offence; or
(e)	it is not in the possession or under the control of the party and —
(i)	it cannot be obtained by any judicial procedure of the court; or
(ii)	it is in the possession or under the control of another party to the proceeding concerned who knows or might reasonably be expected to know that evidence of the contents of the document, or evidence of the thing, is likely to be relevant in the proceeding; or
(iii)	it was in the possession or under the control of another party to the proceeding concerned at a time when that party knew or might reasonably be expected to have known that evidence of the contents of the document, or evidence of the thing, was likely to be relevant in the proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) Dictionary Part 2 cl. 5
9.	References to availability to give evidence
(1)	For the purposes of this Act, a person is taken not to be available to give evidence about a fact if —
(a)	the person is dead; or
(b)	the person is, for any reason other than the application of section 26, not competent to give the evidence; or
(c)	the person is mentally or physically unable to give the evidence and it is not reasonably practicable to overcome that inability; or
(d)	the person objects to giving the evidence under section 28 and that objection is upheld; or
(e)	it would be unlawful for the person to give the evidence; or
(f)	a provision of this Act prohibits the evidence being given; or
(g)	all reasonable steps have been taken, by the party seeking to prove the person is not available, to find the person or secure the person’s attendance, without success; or
(h)	all reasonable steps have been taken, by the party seeking to prove the person is not available, to compel the person to give the evidence, without success.
(2)	In all other cases, the person is taken to be available to give evidence about the fact.
(3)	In deciding whether a person is not available to give evidence under subsection (1)(b) or (c), a court may inform itself as it thinks fit.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) Dictionary Part 2 cl. 4
10.	References to laws
(1)	A reference in this Act to a law of the State is a reference to a written law or an unwritten law of, or in force in, the State.
(2)	A reference in this Act to a law of the Commonwealth, another State, a Territory or a foreign country is a reference to a law (whether in the nature of a written law or an unwritten law) of, or in force in, that place.
(3)	A reference in this Act to an Australian law is a reference to an Australian law (whether in the nature of a written law or an unwritten law) of, or in force in, Australia.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) Dictionary Part 2 cl. 9
11.	References to criminal proceedings
(1)	A reference in this Act to a criminal proceeding for a particular offence is a reference to a criminal proceeding in which a person stands charged with that offence —
(a)	whether or not the person is charged with that offence alone or together with another offence (as an alternative or additional count); and
(b)	whether or not the person is liable on the charge to be found guilty of any other offence.
(2)	If a provision of this Act applies to a criminal proceeding for a particular offence it also applies to any related proceeding, unless the contrary intention appears.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 36A and Schedule 7 Part A cl. 1
12.	References to civil penalties
For the purposes of this Act, a person is taken to be liable to a civil penalty if, in an Australian or overseas proceeding (other than a criminal proceeding), the person would be liable to a penalty arising under an Australian law or a law of a foreign country.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) Dictionary Part 2 cl. 3
13.	References to offspring and parents
(1)	A person of any age is the offspring of another person if the other person is the person’s parent.
(2)	A parent, in relation to a child, includes a person who acts as a parent to the child and with whom the child lives as if the child were a member of the person’s family.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) Dictionary Part 2 cl. 10
	Division 3 — Application of Act
14.	Application of Act
This Act applies to all proceedings in a court.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 4
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 4
15.	Extended application of certain provisions
(1)	A provision of this Act applies to a proceeding before a WA tribunal or a person acting judicially, whether or not the tribunal or person acting judicially is a court, if this Act expressly provides that the provision extends to a proceeding before a WA tribunal or a person acting judicially.
(2)	If a provision of this Act extends to a proceeding before a WA tribunal or a person acting judicially, a reference in the provision to a court includes a reference to a WA tribunal, or a person acting judicially, as the case requires.
Examples for this section:
Section 208, which permits evidence to be taken by video link or audio link, extends to a proceeding before a WA tribunal.
Sections 328, 332 to 340 and 347, which facilitate proof of certain matters in proceedings, extend to a proceeding before a person acting judicially.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 5
16.	Electronic processes facilitation
The Courts and Tribunals (Electronic Processes Facilitation) Act 2013 Part 2 applies to this Act.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 5A
17.	Act binds Crown
This Act binds the Crown in right of Western Australia and, so far as the legislative power of the Parliament permits, the Crown in all its other capacities.
18.	Operation of other Acts
This Act does not affect the operation of the provisions of any other Act.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (New South Wales) s. 8
19.	Application of common law and equity
(1)	This Act does not affect the operation of a principle or rule of common law or equity in relation to evidence in a proceeding to which this Act applies, except so far as this Act provides otherwise expressly or by necessary implication.
(2)	Without limiting subsection (1), this Act does not affect the operation of a principle or rule of common law or equity so far as it relates to any of the following —
(a)	admission or use of evidence of reasons for a decision of a member of a jury, or of the deliberations of a member of a jury in relation to the decision, in a proceeding by way of appeal from a judgment, decree, order or sentence of a court;
(b)	bail;
(c)	any requirement for admission of evidence in support of an alibi.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (New South Wales) s. 9
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 9
20.	Parliamentary privilege preserved
(1)	This Act does not affect the law relating to the privileges of any Australian Parliament or any House of any Australian Parliament.
(2)	In particular, section 25(3) does not affect, and is in addition to, the law relating to those privileges.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 10
21.	General powers of court
(1)	The power of a court to control the conduct of a proceeding is not affected by this Act, except so far as this Act provides otherwise expressly or by necessary implication.
(2)	In particular, the powers of a court with respect of abuse of process in a proceeding are not affected.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 11
	Part 2 — Adducing evidence
	Division 1 — Witnesses
	Subdivision 1 — Competence and compellability of witnesses
22.	Competence and compellability
Except as otherwise provided by this Act —
(a)	every person is competent to give evidence; and
(b)	a person who is competent to give evidence about a fact is compellable to give that evidence.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 12
23.	Competence: lack of capacity
(1)	A person is not competent to give evidence about a fact if —
(a)	for any reason (including a disability), the person does not have capacity —
(i)	to understand a question about the fact; or
(ii)	to give an answer that can be understood to a question about the fact;
and
(b)	that incapacity cannot be overcome.
(2)	A person who, because of subsection (1), is not competent to give evidence about a fact may be competent to give evidence about other facts.
(3)	A person who is competent to give evidence about a fact is not competent to give sworn evidence about the fact if the person does not have the capacity to understand that, in giving evidence, the person is under an obligation to give truthful evidence.
(4)	A person who is not competent to give sworn evidence about a fact may be competent to give unsworn evidence about the fact.
(5)	A person who, because of subsection (3), is not competent to give sworn evidence is competent to give unsworn evidence if the court has told the person —
(a)	that it is important to tell the truth; and
(b)	that the person may be asked questions that the person does not know, or cannot remember, the answer to, and that the person should tell the court if this occurs; and
(c)	that the person may be asked questions that suggest certain statements are true or untrue and that the person should agree with the statements that the person believes are true and should feel no pressure to agree with statements that the person believes are untrue.
(6)	It is presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that a person is not incompetent because of this section.
(7)	Evidence (either sworn or unsworn) that has been given by a witness does not become inadmissible merely because, before the witness finishes giving evidence, the witness dies or ceases to be competent to give the evidence.
(8)	For the purpose of determining a question arising under this section, the court may inform itself as it thinks fit, including by obtaining information from a person who has relevant specialised knowledge based on the person’s training, study or experience.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 13
24.	Compellability: reduced capacity
A person is not compellable to give evidence on a particular matter if the court is satisfied that —
(a)	substantial cost or delay would be incurred in ensuring that the person has the capacity to understand a question about the matter or to give an answer that can be understood to a question about the matter; and
(b)	adequate evidence on that matter has been given, or will be able to be given, from 1 or more other persons or sources.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 14
25.	Compellability: foreign sovereign and others
(1)	In this section —
joint sitting means —
(a)	in relation to the Parliament of the Commonwealth — a joint sitting of the members of the Senate and of the House of Representatives convened by the Governor-General under the Commonwealth Constitution section 57 or convened under any Act of the Commonwealth; or
(b)	in relation to a bicameral legislature of a State — a joint sitting of both Houses of the legislature convened under a law of the State.
(2)	The following persons are not compellable to give evidence —
(a)	a foreign sovereign;
(b)	the Head of State of a foreign country.
(3)	A member of a House of an Australian Parliament is not compellable to give evidence if the member would, if compelled to give evidence, be prevented from attending —
(a)	a sitting of that House or a joint sitting of that Parliament; or
(b)	a meeting of a committee of that House or that Parliament, being a committee of which the person is a member.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 15
26.	Competence and compellability: judges and jurors
(1)	A person who is a judge or juror in a proceeding is not competent to give evidence in that proceeding.
(2)	However, a juror is competent to give evidence in the proceeding about matters affecting the conduct of the proceeding.
(3)	A person who is or was a judge in an Australian or overseas proceeding is not compellable to give evidence about that proceeding unless the court gives leave.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 16
27.	Competence and compellability: accused and co-accused in criminal proceeding
(1)	An accused is not competent to give evidence as a witness for the prosecution in a criminal proceeding.
(2)	A co-accused is not compellable to give evidence for or against an accused in a criminal proceeding, unless the co-accused is being tried separately from the accused.
(3)	If a witness is a co-accused who is being tried jointly with the accused in a criminal proceeding, the court must satisfy itself (if there is a jury, in the jury’s absence) that the witness is aware of the effect of subsection (2).
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 17
28.	Compellability: spouses and others in criminal proceeding
(1)	In a criminal proceeding, a person who is the spouse, former spouse, de facto partner, former de facto partner, parent or offspring of an accused may object to being required —
(a)	to give evidence as a witness for the prosecution; or
(b)	to give evidence of a communication between the person and the accused as a witness for the prosecution.
(2)	The objection must be made before the person gives the evidence or as soon as practicable after the person becomes aware of the right to object, whichever is the later.
(3)	If it appears to the court that a person may have a right to make an objection under this section, the court must satisfy itself that the person is aware of the effect of this section as it may apply to the person.
(4)	If there is a jury, the court must hear and determine any objection under this section in the absence of the jury.
(5)	A person who makes an objection under this section to giving evidence or giving evidence of a communication must not be required to give the evidence if the court finds that —
(a)	there is a likelihood that harm would or might be caused (whether directly or indirectly) to the person, or to the relationship between the person and the accused, if the person gives the evidence; and
(b)	the nature and extent of that harm outweighs the desirability of having the evidence given.
(6)	Without limiting the matters that may be taken into account by the court for the purposes of subsection (5), it must take into account the following —
(a)	the nature and gravity of the offence for which the accused is being prosecuted;
(b)	the substance and importance of any evidence that the person might give and the weight that is likely to be attached to it;
(c)	whether any other evidence concerning the matters to which the evidence of the person would relate is reasonably available to the prosecutor;
(d)	the nature of the relationship between the accused and the person;
(e)	whether, in giving the evidence, the person would have to disclose a matter that was received by the person in confidence from the accused.
(7)	If an objection under this section has been determined, the prosecutor must not comment on —
(a)	the objection; or
(b)	the decision of the court in relation to the objection; or
(c)	the failure of the person to give evidence.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 18
29.	Compellability: witnesses in public revenue cases
(1)	This section applies to the following proceedings —
(a)	a proceeding for a contravention of a provision of the Duties Act 2008;
(b)	a proceeding for a contravention of a provision of any Act relating to the public revenue;
(c)	any proceeding brought by or on behalf of, or against, the State under a provision of an Act referred to in paragraph (a) or (b).
(2)	A court may require any person to give evidence as a witness in a proceeding to which this section applies if the court is satisfied that it is in the public interest that the person gives that evidence.
(3)	Subsection (2) extends to an accused in a criminal proceeding to which this section applies, who is taken to be competent to give evidence for the prosecution in the proceeding.
(4)	A person who is required by a court to give evidence under this section is compellable to give that evidence (despite any other provision of this Subdivision).
(5)	This section does not apply to a proceeding before the Magistrates Court or the Children’s Court when constituted solely by 1 or more justices of the peace.
Note for this section:
Section 191 makes provision for the issue of an immunity certificate to a person who is required to give evidence under this section that incriminates the person.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 12
30.	Comment on decision not to give evidence in criminal proceeding
(1)	The judge or any party (other than the prosecutor) may comment on a decision of the accused to not give evidence in a criminal proceeding for an indictable offence.
(2)	However, the comment must not suggest that the accused did not give evidence because the accused had, or believed that they had, committed the offence concerned.
(3)	The judge or any party (other than the prosecutor) may comment on a decision to not give evidence in a criminal proceeding for an indictable offence by a person who is —
(a)	the spouse, former spouse, de facto partner or former de facto partner of the accused; or
(b)	a parent or the offspring of the accused.
(4)	However, a comment of a kind referred to in subsection (3) must not suggest that the spouse, former spouse, de facto partner, former de facto partner, parent or offspring decided not to give evidence because —
(a)	the accused had committed the offence concerned; or
(b)	the spouse, former spouse, de facto partner, former de facto partner, parent or offspring believed that the accused had committed the offence concerned.
(5)	If 2 or more persons are being tried jointly for an indictable offence and comment is made in the proceeding by any of those persons on a decision of any of those persons, or of the spouse, former spouse, de facto partner, former de facto partner, parent or offspring of any of those persons, to not give evidence, the judge may comment on that comment, in addition to commenting on the decision to not give evidence.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 20
	Subdivision 2 — Oaths and affirmations
31.	Sworn evidence of witnesses to be on oath or affirmation
(1)	A witness in a proceeding must either take an oath or make an affirmation before giving evidence.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not apply to a person who gives unsworn evidence because the person is not competent to give sworn evidence.
(3)	A person who is called merely to produce a document or thing to the court need not take an oath or make an affirmation before doing so.
(4)	The witness must take the oath, or make the affirmation, in the following form or in a similar form —
I [insert the opening words of an oath or affirmation in accordance with the Oaths, Affidavits and Statutory Declarations Act 2005 section 4 or 5] that the evidence I will give in this case will be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 97
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 21 and Schedule
32.	Interpreters to act on oath or affirmation
(1)	A person must either take an oath or make an affirmation before acting as an interpreter in a proceeding.
(2)	The person must take the oath, or make the affirmation, in the following form or in a similar form —
I [insert the opening words of an oath or affirmation in accordance with the Oaths, Affidavits and Statutory Declarations Act 2005 section 4 or 5] that I will well and truly translate any evidence that I am asked to translate in this case.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 102
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 22 and Schedule
33.	Choice of oath or affirmation
(1)	The court must inform a person who is required to take an oath or affirmation under this Act that the person may choose between taking an oath or making an affirmation.
(2)	The court may direct the person to make an affirmation if the person refuses to choose whether to take an oath or make an affirmation.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 23
34.	Application of Oaths, Affidavits and Statutory Declarations Act 2005
(1)	This Act does not affect the operation of the Oaths, Affidavits and Statutory Declarations Act 2005 and, in particular, Part 2 of that Act.
Example for this subsection:
The Oaths, Affidavits and Statutory Declarations Act 2005 section 5(2) provides for circumstances in which a person may be required to make an affirmation instead of taking an oath.
(2)	The Oaths, Affidavits and Statutory Declarations Act 2005 section 6 applies to any person, other than a witness who is required to take an oath or make an affirmation under this Act, in the same way as it applies to a witness.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 105
	Subdivision 3 — General rules about giving evidence
35.	Court’s control over questioning of witnesses
A court may make any orders it considers just in relation to the following —
(a)	the way in which witnesses are to be questioned;
(b)	the production and use of documents and things in connection with the questioning of witnesses;
(c)	the order in which parties may question a witness;
(d)	the presence and behaviour of any person in connection with the questioning of witnesses.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 26
36.	Parties may question witnesses
A party may question any witness, except as provided by this Act.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 27
37.	Order of examination in chief, cross-examination and re-examination
Unless the court otherwise directs —
(a)	cross-examination of a witness must not take place before the examination in chief of the witness; and
(b)	re-examination of a witness must not take place before all other parties who wish to do so have cross-examined the witness.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 28
38.	Manner and form of questioning witnesses and their responses
(1)	A party may question a witness in any way the party thinks fit, except as provided by this Part or as directed by the court.
(2)	A court may, on its own initiative or on the application of the party who called the witness, direct that the witness give evidence wholly or partly in narrative form.
(3)	A direction under subsection (2) may include directions about the way in which evidence must be given in that form.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 29
39.	Interpreters
A witness may give evidence about a fact through an interpreter unless the witness can understand and speak the English language sufficiently to enable the witness to understand, and to give an adequate reply to, questions that may be put about the fact.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 30
40.	Witnesses who cannot hear adequately or speak adequately
(1)	A witness who cannot hear adequately may be questioned in any appropriate way.
(2)	A witness who cannot speak adequately may give evidence by any appropriate means.
(3)	The court may give directions concerning either or both of the following —
(a)	the way in which a witness may be questioned under subsection (1);
(b)	the means by which a witness may give evidence under subsection (2).
(4)	This section does not affect the right of a witness to whom this section applies to give evidence about a fact through an interpreter under section 39.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 31
41.	Attempts to revive memory in court
(1)	A witness must not, in the course of giving evidence, use a document to try to revive the witness’s memory about a fact or opinion unless the court gives leave.
(2)	Without limiting the matters that the court may take into account in deciding whether to give leave, it must take into account —
(a)	whether the witness will be able to recall the fact or opinion adequately without using the document; and
(b)	whether so much of the document as the witness proposes to use is, or is a copy of, a document that —
(i)	was written or made by the witness when the events recorded in it were fresh in the witness’s memory; or
(ii)	was, at that time, found by the witness to be accurate.
(3)	If a witness has, while giving evidence, used a document to try to revive the witness’s memory about a fact or opinion, the witness may, with the leave of the court, read aloud, as part of the witness’s evidence, the part of the document that relates to that fact or opinion.
(4)	The court must, on the request of a party, give any directions the court thinks fit to ensure that the part of the document that relates to the proceeding is produced to that party.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 32
42.	Evidence given by police officers
(1)	Despite section 41, in any criminal proceeding a police officer may give evidence in chief for the prosecution by reading or being led through a written statement previously made by the police officer.
(2)	The evidence cannot be given unless —
(a)	the statement was made by the police officer —
(i)	at the time of or soon after the occurrence of the events to which it refers; or
(ii)	wholly or substantially on the basis of notes that were made by the police officer, or found by the police officer to be accurate, at the time of or soon after the occurrence of the events;
and
(b)	the police officer signed the statement when it was made; and
(c)	a copy of the statement was given to the accused or to the accused’s legal counsel a reasonable time before the hearing of the evidence for the prosecution.
(3)	This section extends to the giving of evidence in chief by a person who was formerly a police officer if the person was a police officer when the statement was made.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 33
43.	Attempts to revive memory out of court
(1)	A court may, on the request of a party, give such directions as are appropriate to ensure that specified documents and things used by a witness otherwise than while giving evidence to try to revive the witness’s memory are produced to the party for the purposes of the proceeding.
(2)	The court may refuse to admit the evidence given by the witness so far as it concerns a fact as to which the witness tried to revive the witness’s memory if, without reasonable excuse, the directions have not been complied with.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 34
44.	Effect of calling for production of documents
(1)	A party cannot be required to tender a document only because the party, whether under this Act or otherwise —
(a)	called for the document to be produced to the party; or
(b)	inspected the document when it was produced.
(2)	The party who produces a document called for is not entitled to tender it only because the party to whom it was produced, or who inspected it, fails to tender it.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 35
45.	Person may be examined without subpoena or other process
(1)	A court may order a person to give evidence in a proceeding and to produce documents or things even if a subpoena or other process requiring the person to attend for that purpose has not been duly served on the person if the person —
(a)	is present at the hearing of the proceeding; and
(b)	is compellable to give evidence in the proceeding.
(2)	A court may order a person who is giving evidence in a proceeding to produce documents or things even if a subpoena or other process requiring the person to produce the document or things has not been duly served on the person.
(3)	A person ordered to give evidence or to produce documents or things is subject to the same penalties and liabilities as if the person had been duly served with a subpoena or other process.
(4)	A party who inspects a document or thing produced to the court because of subsection (1) or (2) need not use the document or thing in evidence.
(5)	A court that requires a person to give evidence or produce a document by order under subsection (1) or (2) must ensure the person is given any information about the person’s rights with respect to the order that the person would have been given if the requirement had been made by subpoena or other process.
(6)	A person may object to a requirement to give evidence or produce a document under subsection (1) or (2) on the same grounds as the person could have objected if the requirement had been made by subpoena or other process.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 15
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 36
	Subdivision 4 — Examination in chief and re-examination
46.	Leading questions not to be asked
(1)	A leading question must not be put to a witness in examination in chief or in re-examination unless —
(a)	the court gives leave; or
(b)	the question relates to a matter introductory to the witness’s evidence; or
(c)	no objection is made to the question and (leaving aside the party conducting the examination in chief or re-examination) each other party to the proceeding is represented by legal counsel or the prosecutor; or
(d)	the question relates to a matter that is not in dispute; or
(e)	if the witness has specialised knowledge based on the witness’s training, study or experience — the question is asked for the purpose of obtaining the witness’s opinion about a hypothetical statement of facts, being facts in respect of which evidence has been, or is intended to be, given.
(2)	Unless the court otherwise directs, subsection (1) does not apply in a civil proceeding to a question that relates to an investigation, inspection or report that the witness made in the course of carrying out public or official duties.
(3)	Subsection (1) does not prevent a court from exercising power under rules of court to allow a written statement or report to be tendered or treated as evidence in chief of its maker.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 37
47.	Unfavourable witnesses
(1)	A party who called a witness may, with the leave of the court, question the witness, as though the party were cross-examining the witness, about —
(a)	evidence given by the witness that is unfavourable to the party; or
(b)	a matter of which the witness may reasonably be supposed to have knowledge and about which it appears to the court the witness is not, in examination in chief, making a genuine attempt to give evidence; or
(c)	whether the witness has, at any time, made a prior inconsistent statement.
(2)	Questioning a witness under this section is taken to be cross-examination for the purposes of this Act (other than for the purposes of re-examination of the witness).
(3)	The party questioning the witness under this section may, with the leave of the court, question the witness about matters relevant only to the witness’s credibility.
(4)	Questioning under this section must take place before the other parties cross-examine the witness unless the court otherwise directs.
(5)	If the court so directs, the order in which the parties question the witness must be as the court directs.
(6)	Without limiting the matters that the court may take into account in determining whether to give leave or a direction under this section, it must take into account —
(a)	whether the party gave notice at the earliest opportunity of the party’s intention to seek leave; and
(b)	the matters on which, and the extent to which, the witness has been, or is likely to be, questioned by another party.
(7)	A party is subject to the same liability to be cross-examined under this section as any other witness if —
(a)	a proceeding is being conducted in the name of the party by or on behalf of an insurer or other person; and
(b)	the party is a witness in the proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 38
48.	Limits on re-examination
On re-examination —
(a)	a witness may be questioned about matters arising out of evidence given by the witness in cross-examination; and
(b)	other questions must not be put to the witness unless the court gives leave.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 39
	Subdivision 5 — Cross-examination
49.	Witness called in error not to be cross-examined
A party must not cross-examine a witness who has been called in error by another party and has not been questioned by that other party about a matter relevant to a question to be determined in the proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 40
50.	Improper questions
(1)	A court must disallow a question (a disallowable question) put to a witness in cross-examination, or inform the witness that it need not be answered, if the court is of the opinion that the question —
(a)	is misleading or confusing; or
(b)	is unduly annoying, harassing, intimidating, offensive, oppressive, humiliating or repetitive; or
(c)	is put to the witness in a manner or tone that is belittling, insulting or otherwise inappropriate; or
(d)	has no basis other than a stereotype (for example, a stereotype based on sex, gender, sexual orientation, race, culture, ethnicity, religious or political conviction, age or disability).
(2)	Without limiting the matters that the court may take into account for the purposes of subsection (1), it must take into account —
(a)	any relevant condition or characteristic of the witness of which the court is, or is made, aware, including age, education, ethnic and cultural background, sex, gender, language background and skills, level of maturity and understanding and personality; and
(b)	any disability of which the court is, or is made, aware and which the witness has or appears to have; and
(c)	the context in which the question is put, including —
(i)	the nature of the proceeding; and
(ii)	in a criminal proceeding — the nature of the offence to which the proceeding relates; and
(iii)	the relationship (if any) between the witness and any other party to the proceeding.
(3)	A question is not a disallowable question merely because —
(a)	the question challenges the truthfulness of the witness or the consistency or accuracy of any statement made by the witness; or
(b)	the question requires the witness to discuss a subject that could be considered distasteful to, or private by, the witness.
(4)	A party may object to a question put to a witness on the ground that it is a disallowable question.
(5)	However, the duty imposed on the court by this section applies whether or not an objection is made to a particular question.
(6)	A failure by the court to disallow a question under this section, or to inform the witness that it need not be answered, does not affect the admissibility in evidence of any answer given by the witness in response to the question.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 26
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 41
51.	Leading questions may be asked
(1)	A party may put a leading question to a witness in cross-examination unless the court disallows the question or directs the witness not to answer it under subsection (2) or (3).
(2)	The court must disallow a leading question, or direct the witness not to answer it, if the court is satisfied that the facts concerned would be better ascertained if leading questions were not used.
(3)	The court may disallow a leading question or direct the witness not to answer it if subsection (2) does not apply.
(4)	Without limiting the matters that the court may take into account in deciding whether to disallow a question or direct the witness not to answer it under subsection (3), the court must take into account the extent to which —
(a)	evidence that has been given by the witness in examination in chief is unfavourable to the party who called the witness; and
(b)	the witness has an interest consistent with an interest of the cross-examiner; and
(c)	the witness is sympathetic to the party conducting the cross-examination, either generally or about a particular matter; and
(d)	the age or any disability of the witness may affect the witness’s answers.
(5)	This section does not limit the court’s power to control leading questions.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 42
52.	Prior inconsistent statements of witnesses
(1)	A witness may be cross-examined about a prior inconsistent statement alleged to have been made by the witness whether or not —
(a)	complete particulars of the statement have been given to the witness; or
(b)	a document containing a record of the statement has been shown to the witness.
(2)	If, in cross-examination, a witness does not admit that the witness has made a prior inconsistent statement, the cross-examiner must not adduce evidence of the statement otherwise than from the witness unless, in the cross-examination, the cross-examiner —
(a)	informed the witness of enough of the circumstances of the making of the statement to enable the witness to identify the statement; and
(b)	drew the witness’s attention to so much of the statement as is inconsistent with the witness’s evidence.
(3)	For the purpose of adducing evidence of the statement, a party may reopen the party’s case.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 21
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 43
53.	Previous representations of other persons
(1)	Except as provided by this section, a cross-examiner must not question a witness about a previous representation alleged to have been made by a person other than the witness.
(2)	A cross-examiner may question a witness about the representation and its contents if —
(a)	evidence of the representation has been admitted; or
(b)	the court is satisfied that it will be admitted; or
(c)	the representation is contained in a document and the document was used, during examination in chief, to try to revive the witness’s memory.
(3)	If subsection (2) does not apply and the representation is contained in a document, the document may be used to question a witness only as follows —
(a)	the document must be produced to the witness;
(b)	if the document is an audio recording, or any other kind of document from which sounds are reproduced — the witness must be provided with the means (for example, headphones) to listen to the contents of the document without other persons present at the cross-examination hearing those contents;
(c)	the witness must be asked whether, having examined (or heard) the contents of the document, the witness stands by the evidence that the witness has given;
(d)	neither the cross-examiner nor the witness is permitted to identify the document or disclose any of its contents.
(4)	The document that is used to question the witness may be marked for identification.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 44
54.	Production of documents
(1)	This section applies if a party is cross-examining or has cross-examined a witness about —
(a)	a prior inconsistent statement alleged to have been made by the witness that is recorded in a document; or
(b)	a previous representation alleged to have been made by another person that is recorded in a document.
(2)	If the court orders or if another party requires, the cross-examining party must produce to the court or to that other party —
(a)	the document; or
(b)	any evidence of the contents of the document that is available to the party.
(3)	The court may —
(a)	examine a document or evidence that has been produced under subsection (2); and
(b)	give directions as to its use; and
(c)	admit it even if it has not been tendered by a party.
(4)	Subsection (3)(c) does not permit the court to admit a document or evidence that is not admissible because of Part 3, 4 or 5.
(5)	The mere production of a document to a witness who is being cross-examined does not give rise to a requirement that the cross-examiner tender the document.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 45
55.	Leave to recall witnesses
(1)	A reference in this section to a matter raised by evidence adduced by another party includes a reference to an inference drawn from, or that the party intends to draw from, that evidence.
(2)	The court may give leave to a party to recall a witness to give evidence about a matter raised by evidence adduced by another party, being a matter on which the witness was not cross-examined, if the evidence concerned has been admitted and —
(a)	it contradicts evidence about the matter given by the witness in examination in chief; or
(b)	the witness could have given evidence about the matter in examination in chief.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 46
56.	Cross-examination of witness by unrepresented party
(1)	This section applies —
(a)	in a criminal proceeding — if an accused who is not represented by legal counsel wishes to cross-examine a witness; or
(b)	in a civil proceeding in which it is alleged that a witness is the victim of sexual abuse or sexual harassment — if a party who is not represented by legal counsel wishes to cross-examine the witness.
(2)	The court may, by order —
(a)	direct that the witness’s evidence on cross-examination be given using a video link separation procedure that separates the witness from the cross-examiner; or
(b)	if it is not possible to make an order under paragraph (a), direct that a screening procedure be used while the witness gives evidence on cross-examination so the witness cannot see the cross-examiner.
(3)	In addition to, or instead of, making an order under subsection (2)(a) or (b), the court may make an order that —
(a)	forbids the unrepresented party from putting questions directly to the witness; and
(b)	requires the unrepresented party to instead put the questions to the judge or another person approved by the court.
(4)	The judge or approved person must repeat each question accurately to the witness (other than a question that is disallowed).
(5)	The court must have regard to the following matters in deciding whether to make an order under this section —
(a)	the nature of the charge or claim to which the proceeding relates;
(b)	the nature of the relationship (if any) between the witness and any party (including the unrepresented party);
(c)	the nature of the relationship (if any) between the parties;
(d)	the wishes of the witness;
(e)	the availability of any necessary facilities or equipment.
(6)	An order under this section —
(a)	may include any directions the court thinks fit relating to the video link separation procedure or screening procedure; and
(b)	may be varied or revoked at any time.
(7)	If a court makes an order under this section in a proceeding before a jury, the judge must instruct the jury that —
(a)	the procedure used for the cross-examination is a routine practice of the court; and
(b)	they should not draw an inference as to the guilt of an accused or the culpability of a party from the use of the procedure.
(8)	This section applies despite the Criminal Procedure Act 2004 section 88.
(9)	This section does not affect the operation of Part 7.
(10)	Sections 280 and 281 apply to the use of a video link separation procedure or screening procedure under this section in the same way as they apply to their use under Part 7 Division 7.
Note for this section:
Part 7 Division 10 restricts access to and use of recordings of evidence given by witnesses using video link separation procedures or screening procedures.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 25A
57.	No direct cross-examination of certain witnesses by unrepresented accused
(1)	In a criminal proceeding, an accused who is not represented by legal counsel is not entitled to directly cross-examine —
(a)	a child; or
(b)	if the proceeding is for a sexual offence — the complainant; or
(c)	if the proceeding is for a criminal or identified organisation offence —
(i)	the complainant; or
(ii)	any witness for the prosecution;
or
(d)	any other witness of a class prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this section.
(2)	Instead, the accused must put any questions to the witness by stating the question to the judge or another person approved by the court.
(3)	The judge or approved person must repeat each question accurately to the witness (other than a question that is disallowed).
(4)	This section does not apply to the cross-examination of a witness by an accused if —
(a)	the witness is not a child; and
(b)	the witness consents to being directly cross-examined by the accused.
(5)	If the proceeding is before a jury, the judge must instruct the jury that —
(a)	the procedure used for the cross-examination is a routine practice of the court; and
(b)	they should not draw an inference as to the accused’s guilt from the use of the procedure.
(6)	This section does not affect the operation of Part 7.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106G
	Division 2 — Documents
58.	Terms used
In this Division —
copy, of a document in question, includes a document that is not an exact copy of the document in question but that is identical to the document in question in all relevant respects;
document in question means a document as to the contents of which it is sought to adduce evidence.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 47
59.	Proof of contents of documents
(1)	A party may adduce evidence of the contents of a document in question by tendering the document in question or by any of the following methods —
(a)	adducing evidence of an admission made by another party to the proceeding as to the contents of the document in question;
(b)	tendering a document that —
(i)	is or purports to be a copy or accurate reproduction of the document in question; and
(ii)	has been produced, or purports to have been produced, by a device that reproduces the contents of documents or has been made by any other process or in any other way;
(c)	if the document in question is an article or thing by which words are recorded in a way that is capable of being reproduced as sound, or in which words are recorded in a code (including shorthand writing) — tendering a document that is or purports to be a transcript of the words;
(d)	if the document in question is an article or thing on or in which information is stored in a way that it cannot be used by the court unless a device is used to retrieve, produce or collate it — tendering a document that was or purports to have been produced by use of the device;
(e)	tendering a document that —
(i)	forms part of the records of or kept by a business (whether or not the business is still in existence); and
(ii)	is or purports to be a copy of, or an extract from or a summary of, the document in question, or is or purports to be a copy of the extract or summary;
(f)	if the document in question is a public document — tendering a document that is or purports to be a copy of the document in question and that is or purports to have been printed or published —
(i)	by the Government Printer or by the government or official printer of the Commonwealth, another State or a Territory; or
(ii)	by authority of the Government or administration of the State, the Commonwealth, another State, a Territory or a foreign country; or
(iii)	by authority of an Australian Parliament, a House of an Australian Parliament, a committee of a House of an Australian Parliament or a committee of an Australian Parliament;
(g)	tendering a document that otherwise accurately reproduces the contents of the document in question.
(2)	Subsection (1) applies to a document in question whether the document in question is available to the party or not.
(3)	If the party adduces evidence of the contents of a document under subsection (1)(a), the evidence may only be used —
(a)	in respect of the party’s case against the other party who made the admission concerned; or
(b)	in respect of the other party’s case against the party who adduced the evidence in that way.
(4)	A party may adduce evidence of the contents of a document in question that is not available to the party, or the existence and contents of which are not in issue in the proceeding, by —
(a)	tendering a document that is a copy of, or an extract from or summary of, the document in question; or
(b)	adducing from a witness evidence of the contents of the document in question.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 73A
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 48
60.	Documents in foreign countries
Section 59(1)(b), (c), (d), (e) or (f) does not apply to a document that is in a foreign country unless —
(a)	the party who adduces evidence of the contents of the document in question has, not less than 28 days (or any other period prescribed by the regulations or by rules of court for the purposes of this section) before the day on which the evidence is adduced, served on each other party a copy of the document proposed to be tendered; or
(b)	the court directs that it applies.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 49
61.	Original document rule abolished
The principles and rules of common law that relate to the means of proving the contents of documents are abolished.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 51
62.	Copies of dutiable instruments
(1)	In this section —
duties Act means the Stamp Act 1921 or the Duties Act 2008;
stamped means stamped or duty endorsed under a duties Act.
(2)	If a document (the original document) is chargeable with duty or required to be stamped, a copy of the original document is not admissible in a civil proceeding unless the court is satisfied that —
(a)	the copy shows or establishes, or it is otherwise established, that the original document was stamped as required by the duties Act concerned; or
(b)	the provisions of the duties Act concerned that enable the admission, or use, in a civil proceeding of a document that is not stamped as required by that Act are complied with as if the copy were the original document.
(3)	This section extends to a civil proceeding before a person acting judicially.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 73U
	Division 3 — Other ways of adducing evidence
63.	Adducing of other evidence not affected
This Act (other than this Division) does not affect the operation of any Australian law or rule of practice so far as it permits evidence to be adduced in a way other than by witnesses giving evidence or documents being tendered in evidence.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 52
64.	Demonstrations, experiments and inspections
(1)	A court may, on application, order that a demonstration, experiment or inspection be held in or outside the courtroom.
(2)	A court must not make an order unless the court is satisfied that —
(a)	the parties will be given a reasonable opportunity to be present; and
(b)	the judge and, if there is a jury, the jury will be present.
(3)	Without limiting the matters that the court may take into account in deciding whether to make an order, the court must take into account the following —
(a)	whether the parties will be present;
(b)	whether the demonstration, experiment or inspection will, in the court’s opinion, assist the court in resolving issues of fact or understanding the evidence;
(c)	the danger that the demonstration, experiment or inspection might —
(i)	be unfairly prejudicial; or
(ii)	be misleading or confusing; or
(iii)	cause or result in undue waste of time;
(d)	in the case of a demonstration — the extent to which the demonstration will properly reproduce the conduct or event to be demonstrated;
(e)	in the case of an inspection — the extent to which the place or thing to be inspected has materially altered.
(4)	The court (including, if there is a jury, the jury) must not conduct an experiment in the course of its deliberations.
(5)	This section does not apply in relation to the inspection of an exhibit by the court or, if there is a jury, by the jury.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 53
65.	Demonstrations, experiments and inspections to be evidence
A court (including, if there is a jury, the jury) may draw any reasonable inference from what it sees, hears or otherwise notices during a demonstration, experiment or inspection.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 54
66.	Charts, summaries and explanatory documents
(1)	Evidence may be given in the form of a chart, summary or other explanatory document if it appears to the court that the document would be likely to aid comprehension of other evidence that has been given or is to be given.
(2)	This section does not affect the operation of section 67.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 27A
67.	Court may require voluminous or complex evidence to be given in another form
(1)	If a court is satisfied that any oral or documentary evidence that a party proposes to adduce is so complex or voluminous that it would be difficult to assess or comprehend, the court may direct the party to adduce the evidence wholly or partly in another form, including in the form of a chart, summary or other explanatory document.
(2)	The court may make a direction under this section on its own initiative or on the application of a party.
(3)	The direction may include directions about the form in which evidence must be given.
(4)	The direction must also contain directions to ensure that each other party —
(a)	is served with —
(i)	copies of the evidence in the form in which the evidence must be given; and
(ii)	the name and address of the person who prepared the evidence in that form;
and
(b)	is given a reasonable opportunity to examine or copy the evidence.
(5)	The opinion rule does not apply to evidence adduced in accordance with a direction under this section.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 27B
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 50
	Part 3 — Admissibility of evidence
	Division 1 — Relevance
68.	Relevant evidence
(1)	The evidence that is relevant in a proceeding is evidence that, if it were accepted, could rationally affect (directly or indirectly) the assessment of the probability of the existence of a fact in issue in the proceeding.
(2)	In particular, evidence cannot be considered irrelevant only because it relates only to —
(a)	the credibility of a witness; or
(b)	the admissibility of other evidence; or
(c)	a failure to adduce evidence.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 55
69.	Relevant evidence to be admissible
(1)	Except as otherwise provided by this Act, evidence that is relevant in a proceeding is admissible in the proceeding.
(2)	Evidence that is not relevant in the proceeding is not admissible.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 56
70.	Provisional relevance
(1)	If the determination of the question whether evidence adduced by a party is relevant depends on the court making another finding (including a finding that the evidence is what the party claims it to be), the court may find that the evidence is relevant —
(a)	if it is reasonably open to make that finding; or
(b)	subject to further evidence being admitted at a later stage of the proceeding that will make it reasonably open to make that finding.
(2)	Without limiting subsection (1), if the relevance of evidence of an act done by a person depends on the court making a finding that the person and 1 or more other persons had, or were acting in furtherance of, a common purpose (whether to effect an unlawful conspiracy or otherwise), the court may use the evidence itself in determining whether the common purpose existed.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 57
71.	Inferences as to relevance
(1)	If a question arises as to the relevance of a document or thing, the court may examine it and may draw any reasonable inference from it, including an inference as to its authenticity or identity.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not limit the matters from which inferences may properly be drawn.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 58
	Division 2 — Hearsay
	Subdivision 1 — Hearsay rule
72.	Hearsay rule: exclusion of hearsay evidence
(1)	Evidence of a previous representation made by a person is not admissible to prove the existence of a fact that it can reasonably be supposed that the person intended to assert by the representation (an asserted fact).
(2)	For the purposes of determining under subsection (1) whether it can reasonably be supposed that the person intended to assert a particular fact by the representation, the court may have regard to the circumstances in which the representation was made.
Note for this subsection:
This subsection relates to the decision of the Supreme Court of New South Wales in R. v Hannes (2000) 158 FLR 359.
(3)	Subsection (1) does not apply to evidence of a representation contained in a certificate or other document given or made under regulations made under an Act (other than this Act) to the extent to which the regulations under that Act provide that the certificate or other document has evidentiary effect.
Examples for this section:
1.	D is the accused in a sexual offence trial. W has made a statement to the police that X told W that X had seen D leave a nightclub with the complainant shortly before the sexual offence is alleged to have occurred. Unless an exception to the hearsay rule applies, evidence of what X told W cannot be given at the trial.
2.	P had told W that the handbrake on W’s car did not work. Unless an exception to the hearsay rule applies, evidence of that statement cannot be given by P, W or anyone else to prove that the handbrake was defective.
3.	W had bought an electronic device and written down its serial number on a document. Unless an exception to the hearsay rule applies, the document is inadmissible to prove that an electronic device later found in D’s possession was the electronic device bought by W.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 59
73.	Exception: evidence relevant for non-hearsay purpose
(1)	The hearsay rule does not apply to evidence of a previous representation that is admitted because it is relevant for a purpose other than proof of an asserted fact.
(2)	This section applies whether or not the person who made the representation had personal knowledge of the asserted fact (as defined in section 75(2)).
Note for this subsection:
This subsection relates to the decision of the High Court of Australia in Lee v The Queen (1998) 195 CLR 594.
(3)	However, this section does not apply in a criminal proceeding to evidence of an admission.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 60
74.	Exceptions to hearsay rule dependent on competency
(1)	This Division does not enable use of a previous representation to prove the existence of an asserted fact if, when the representation was made, the person who made it was not competent to give either sworn or unsworn evidence about the fact.
(2)	This section does not apply to a contemporaneous representation made by a person about the person’s health, feelings, sensations, intention, knowledge or state of mind.
(3)	For the purposes of this section, it is presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that when the representation was made the person who made it was competent to give evidence about the asserted fact.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 61
	Subdivision 2 — First-hand hearsay
75.	Restriction to first-hand hearsay
(1)	A reference in this Subdivision (other than in subsection (2)) to a previous representation is a reference to a previous representation that was made by a person who had personal knowledge of an asserted fact.
(2)	A person has personal knowledge of the asserted fact if the person’s knowledge of the fact was, or might reasonably be supposed to have been, based on something that the person saw, heard or otherwise perceived, other than a previous representation made by another person about the fact.
(3)	For the purposes of section 80, a person has personal knowledge of the asserted fact if it is a fact about the person’s health, feelings, sensations, intention, knowledge or state of mind at the time the representation referred to in that section was made.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 62
76.	Exception: civil proceeding if maker not available
(1)	This section applies to a civil proceeding if a person who made a previous representation is not available to give evidence about an asserted fact.
(2)	The hearsay rule does not apply to —
(a)	evidence of the representation that is given by a person who saw, heard or otherwise perceived the representation being made; or
(b)	a document so far as it contains the representation, or another representation to which it is reasonably necessary to refer in order to understand the representation.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 63
77.	Exception: civil proceeding if maker available
(1)	This section applies to a civil proceeding if a person who made a previous representation is available to give evidence about an asserted fact.
(2)	The hearsay rule does not apply to the following if it would cause undue expense or undue delay, or would not be reasonably practicable, to call the person who made the representation to give evidence —
(a)	evidence of the representation that is given by a person who saw, heard or otherwise perceived the representation being made;
(b)	a document so far as it contains the representation, or another representation to which it is reasonably necessary to refer in order to understand the representation.
(3)	If the person who made the representation has been or is to be called to give evidence, the hearsay rule does not apply to evidence of the representation that is given by —
(a)	that person; or
(b)	a person who saw, heard or otherwise perceived the representation being made.
(4)	A document containing a representation to which subsection (3) applies must not be tendered before the conclusion of the examination in chief of the person who made the representation unless the court gives leave.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 64
78.	Exception: criminal proceeding if maker not available
(1)	This section applies to a criminal proceeding if a person who made a previous representation is not available to give evidence about an asserted fact.
(2)	The hearsay rule does not apply to evidence of a previous representation that is given by a person who saw, heard or otherwise perceived the representation being made if the representation —
(a)	was made under a duty to make that representation or to make representations of that kind; or
(b)	was made when or shortly after the asserted fact occurred and in circumstances that make it unlikely that the representation is a fabrication; or
(c)	was made in circumstances that make it highly probable that the representation is reliable; or
(d)	was —
(i)	against the interests of the person who made it at the time it was made; and
(ii)	made in circumstances that make it likely that the representation is reliable.
(3)	The hearsay rule does not apply to evidence of a previous representation made in the course of giving evidence in an Australian or overseas proceeding if, in that proceeding, the accused in the proceeding to which this section is being applied —
(a)	cross-examined the person who made the representation about it; or
(b)	had a reasonable opportunity to cross-examine the person who made the representation about it.
(4)	If there is more than 1 accused in the criminal proceeding, evidence of a previous representation that is admitted into evidence in the criminal proceeding because of subsection (3) cannot be used against an accused who did not cross-examine, and did not have a reasonable opportunity to cross-examine, the person about the representation.
(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4), an accused is taken to have had a reasonable opportunity to cross-examine a person if the accused was not present at a time when the cross-examination of a person might have been conducted, but —
(a)	could reasonably have been present at that time; and
(b)	if present, could have cross-examined the person.
(6)	Evidence of the making of a representation to which subsection (3) applies may be adduced by producing a transcript, or a recording, of the representation that is authenticated by —
(a)	the person to whom, or the court or other body to which, the representation was made; or
(b)	if applicable, the registrar or other proper officer of the court or other body to which the representation was made; or
(c)	the person or body responsible for producing the transcript or recording.
(7)	Without limiting subsection (2)(d), a representation is taken for the purposes of that paragraph to be against the interests of the person who made it if it tends —
(a)	to damage the person’s reputation; or
(b)	to show that the person has committed an offence for which the person has not been convicted; or
(c)	to show that the person is liable in an action for damages.
(8)	The hearsay rule does not apply to —
(a)	evidence of a previous representation adduced by an accused if the evidence is given by a person who saw, heard or otherwise perceived the representation being made; or
(b)	a document tendered as evidence by an accused so far as it contains a previous representation, or another representation to which it is reasonably necessary to refer in order to understand the representation.
(9)	If evidence of a previous representation about a matter has been adduced by an accused and has been admitted, the hearsay rule does not apply to evidence of another representation about the matter that —
(a)	is adduced by another party; and
(b)	is given by a person who saw, heard or otherwise perceived the other representation being made.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 65
79.	Exception: criminal proceeding if maker available
(1)	This section applies to a criminal proceeding if a person who made a previous representation is available to give evidence about an asserted fact.
(2)	The hearsay rule does not apply to evidence of the representation that is given by the person who made the representation, or by a person who saw, heard or otherwise perceived the representation being made, if —
(a)	the person who made the representation has been or is to be called to give evidence; and
(b)	when the representation was made, the occurrence of the asserted fact was fresh in the memory of the person who made the representation.
(3)	In determining whether the occurrence of the asserted fact was fresh in the memory of a person, the court may take into account all matters that it considers are relevant to the question, including —
(a)	the nature of the event concerned; and
(b)	the age and health of the person; and
(c)	the period of time between the occurrence of the asserted fact and the making of the representation.
Note for this subsection:
This subsection relates to the decision of the High Court of Australia in Graham v The Queen (1998) 195 CLR 606.
(4)	If a representation was made for the purpose of indicating the evidence that the person who made it would be able to give in an Australian or overseas proceeding, subsection (2) does not apply to evidence adduced by the prosecutor of the representation unless the representation concerns the identity of a person, place or thing.
(5)	A document containing a representation to which subsection (2) applies must not be tendered before the conclusion of the examination in chief of the person who made the representation unless the court gives leave.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 66
80.	Exception: particular contemporaneous statements about person
The hearsay rule does not apply to evidence of a previous representation made by a person if the representation was a contemporaneous representation about the person’s health, feelings, sensations, intention, knowledge or state of mind.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 66A
81.	Notice to be given
(1)	An exception to the hearsay rule that is specified in section 76(2), 77(2) or 78(2), (3) or (8) does not apply to evidence adduced by a party unless that party has given reasonable notice in writing to each other party of the party’s intention to adduce the evidence.
(2)	A notice given under subsection (1) must be given in accordance with any regulations or rules of court made for the purposes of this section.
(3)	The notice must state —
(a)	the particular provisions of this Subdivision on which the party intends to rely in arguing that the hearsay rule does not apply to the evidence; and
(b)	if section 77(2) is a provision on which the party intends to rely — the grounds, specified in that provision, on which the party intends to rely.
(4)	Despite subsection (1), if notice has not been given, the court may, on the application of a party, direct that 1 or more of the exceptions to the hearsay rule referred to in subsection (1) applies despite the party’s failure to give notice.
(5)	The direction may provide that, in relation to specified evidence, the exception or exceptions concerned apply with the modifications the court specifies.
(6)	Subsection (5) does not limit the court’s power to impose conditions on the direction.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 67
82.	Objections to tender of hearsay evidence in civil proceeding if maker available
(1)	In a civil proceeding, a party may, not later than 21 days after notice under section 81(1) has been given, object to the tender of the evidence, or of a specified part of the evidence, if the notice discloses that it is not intended to call the person who made the previous representation concerned because —
(a)	it would cause undue expense or undue delay; or
(b)	it would not be reasonably practicable.
(2)	The objection must be made by giving to each other party a written notice setting out the grounds on which the objection is made.
(3)	The court may, on the application of a party, determine the objection at or before the hearing.
(4)	If the objection is unreasonable, the court may order that, in any event, the party objecting must bear the costs (ascertained on a solicitor and client basis) incurred by another party —
(a)	in relation to the objection; and
(b)	in calling the person who made the representation to give evidence.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 68
	Subdivision 3 — Other exceptions to hearsay rule
83.	Exception: business records
(1)	This section applies to a document that contains a previous representation made or recorded in the document in the course of, or for the purposes of, a business and that either —
(a)	is or forms part of the records belonging to or kept by a person, body or organisation in the course of, or for the purposes of, the business; or
(b)	at any time was or formed part of a record referred to in paragraph (a).
(2)	The hearsay rule does not apply to the document (so far as it contains the representation) if the representation was made —
(a)	by a person who had or might reasonably be supposed to have had personal knowledge of the asserted fact; or
(b)	on the basis of information directly or indirectly supplied by a person who had or might reasonably be supposed to have had personal knowledge of the asserted fact.
(3)	Subsection (2) does not apply if the representation —
(a)	was prepared or obtained for the purpose of conducting, or for or in contemplation of or in connection with, an Australian or overseas proceeding; or
(b)	was made in connection with an investigation relating or leading to a criminal proceeding.
(4)	If the occurrence of an event of a particular kind is in question and, in the course of a business, a system has been followed of making and keeping a record of the occurrence of all events of that kind, the hearsay rule does not apply to evidence that tends to prove that there is no record kept, in accordance with that system, of the occurrence of the event.
(5)	For the purposes of this section, a person is taken to have had personal knowledge of a fact if the person’s knowledge of the fact was, or might reasonably be supposed to have been, based on what the person saw, heard or otherwise perceived (other than a previous representation made by a person about the fact).
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 69
84.	Exception: content of tags, labels and writing
The hearsay rule does not apply to a tag or label attached to, or writing placed on, an object (including a document) if the tag or label or writing may reasonably be supposed to have been attached or placed —
(a)	in the course of a business; or
(b)	for the purpose of describing or stating the identity, nature, ownership, destination, origin or weight of the object, or of the contents (if any) of the object.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 70
85.	Exception: electronic communication
The hearsay rule does not apply to a representation contained in a document recording an electronic communication so far as the representation is a representation as to —
(a)	the identity of the person from whom or on whose behalf the communication was sent; or
(b)	the date on which or the time at which the communication was sent; or
(c)	the destination of the communication or the identity of the person to whom the communication was addressed.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 71
86.	Exception: Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander traditional laws and customs
The hearsay rule does not apply to evidence of a representation about the existence or non-existence, or the content, of the traditional laws and customs of an Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander group.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 72
87.	Exception: reputation as to relationships and age
(1)	The hearsay rule does not apply to evidence of reputation concerning —
(a)	whether a person was, at a particular time or at any time, a married person; or
(b)	whether 2 people cohabiting at a particular time were married to each other at that time; or
(c)	a person’s age; or
(d)	family history or a family relationship.
(2)	In a criminal proceeding, subsection (1) does not apply to evidence adduced by an accused unless —
(a)	it tends to contradict evidence of a kind referred to in subsection (1) that has been admitted; or
(b)	the accused has given reasonable notice in writing to each other party of the accused’s intention to adduce the evidence.
(3)	In a criminal proceeding, subsection (1) does not apply to evidence adduced by the prosecutor unless it tends to contradict evidence of a kind referred to in subsection (1) that has been admitted.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 73
88.	Exception: reputation of public or general rights
(1)	The hearsay rule does not apply to evidence of reputation concerning the existence, nature or extent of a public or general right.
(2)	In a criminal proceeding, subsection (1) does not apply to evidence adduced by the prosecutor unless it tends to contradict evidence of a kind referred to in subsection (1) that has been admitted.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 74
89.	Exception: interlocutory proceedings
In an interlocutory proceeding, the hearsay rule does not apply to evidence if the party who adduces it also adduces evidence of its source.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 75
	Division 3 — Opinion
90.	Opinion rule
(1)	Evidence of an opinion is not admissible to prove the existence of a fact about the existence of which the opinion was expressed.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not apply to evidence of an opinion contained in a certificate or other document given or made under regulations made under an Act (other than this Act) to the extent to which the regulations provide that the certificate or other document has evidentiary effect.
Examples for this section:
1.	P sues D, P’s doctor, for the negligent performance of a surgical operation. Unless an exception to the opinion rule applies, P’s neighbour, W, who had the same operation, cannot give evidence of W’s opinion that D had not performed the operation as well as W’s operation.
2.	P thinks electrical work that D, an electrician, has done for P is unsatisfactory. Unless an exception to the opinion rule applies, P cannot give evidence of P’s opinion that D does not have the necessary skills to do electrical work.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 76
91.	Exception: evidence relevant otherwise than as opinion evidence
The opinion rule does not apply to evidence of an opinion that is admitted because it is relevant for a purpose other than proof of the existence of a fact about the existence of which the opinion was expressed.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 77
92.	Exception: lay opinions
The opinion rule does not apply to evidence of an opinion expressed by a person if —
(a)	the opinion is based on what the person saw, heard or otherwise perceived about a matter or event; and
(b)	evidence of the opinion is necessary to obtain an adequate account or understanding of the person’s perception of the matter or event.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 78
93.	Exception: Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander traditional laws and customs
The opinion rule does not apply to evidence of an opinion expressed by a member of an Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander group about the existence or non-existence, or the content, of the traditional laws and customs of the group.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 78A
94.	Exception: opinions based on specialised knowledge
(1)	If a person has specialised knowledge based on the person’s training, study or experience, the opinion rule does not apply to evidence of an opinion of that person that is wholly or substantially based on that knowledge.
(2)	Without limiting subsection (1) —
(a)	a reference in that subsection to specialised knowledge includes a reference to specialised knowledge of child development and child behaviour (including specialised knowledge of the impact of sexual abuse on children and their development and behaviour during and following the abuse); and
(b)	a reference in that subsection to an opinion of a person includes, if the person has specialised knowledge of the kind referred to in paragraph (a), a reference to an opinion relating to either or both of the following —
(i)	the development and behaviour of children generally;
(ii)	the development and behaviour of children who have been victims of sexual abuse.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 79
95.	Ultimate issue and common knowledge rules abolished
Evidence of an opinion is not inadmissible only because it is about —
(a)	a fact in issue or an ultimate issue; or
(b)	a matter of common knowledge.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 80
	Division 4 — Admissions
96.	Hearsay and opinion rules: exception for admissions and related representations
(1)	The hearsay rule and the opinion rule do not apply to evidence of an admission.
(2)	The hearsay rule and the opinion rule do not apply to evidence of a previous representation —
(a)	that was made in relation to an admission at the time the admission was made, or shortly before or after that time; and
(b)	to which it is reasonably necessary to refer in order to understand the admission.
Example for this section:
D admits to W, D’s friend, that D committed a sexual offence against V. In D’s trial for the sexual offence, the prosecution may lead evidence from W —
(a)	that D made the admission to W as proof of the truth of that admission; and
(b)	that W formed the opinion that D was sane when D made the admission.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 81
97.	Exclusion of evidence of admissions that is not first-hand
Section 96 does not prevent the hearsay rule applying to evidence of an admission unless —
(a)	it is given by a person who saw, heard or otherwise perceived the admission being made; or
(b)	it is a document in which the admission is made.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 82
98.	Exclusion of evidence of admissions as against third parties
(1)	Section 96 does not prevent the hearsay rule or the opinion rule applying to evidence of an admission in respect of the case of a party (a third party) to the proceeding concerned who did not make the admission or adduce the evidence.
(2)	The evidence may be used in respect of the case of a third party if the third party consents.
(3)	Consent cannot be given in respect of part only of the evidence.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 83
99.	Exclusion of admissions influenced by violence and certain other conduct
(1)	Evidence of an admission is not admissible unless the court is satisfied that the admission, and the making of the admission, were not influenced by —
(a)	violent, oppressive, inhuman or degrading conduct, whether towards the person who made the admission or towards another person; or
(b)	a threat of conduct of that kind.
(2)	Subsection (1) only applies if the party against whom evidence of the admission is adduced has raised in the proceeding an issue about whether the admission or its making were influenced as referred to in subsection (1).
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 84
100.	Criminal proceedings: reliability of admissions by accused
(1)	This section applies only in a criminal proceeding and only to evidence of an admission made by an accused —
(a)	to, or in the presence of, an investigating official who at that time was performing functions in connection with the investigation of the commission, or possible commission, of an offence; or
(b)	as a result of an act of another person who was, and who the accused knew or reasonably believed to be, capable of influencing the decision whether a prosecution of the accused should be brought or should be continued.
Note for this subsection:
This subsection relates to the decision of the High Court of Australia in Kelly v The Queen (2004) 218 CLR 216.
(2)	Evidence of the admission is not admissible unless the circumstances in which the admission was made make it unlikely that the truth of the admission was adversely affected.
(3)	Without limiting the matters that the court may take into account for the purposes of subsection (2), it must take into account —
(a)	any relevant condition or characteristic of the person who made the admission, including age, personality, race, culture, ethnicity, religion and education and any disability that the person has or appears to have; and
(b)	if the admission was made in response to questioning —
(i)	the nature of the questions and the manner in which they were put; and
(ii)	the nature of any threat, promise or other inducement made to the person questioned.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 85
101.	Criminal proceedings: exclusion of records of oral questioning
(1)	This section applies only in a criminal proceeding and only if an oral admission was made by an accused to an investigating official in response to a question put or a representation made by the official.
(2)	A document prepared by or on behalf of the official is not admissible to prove the contents of the question, representation or response unless the accused has acknowledged that the document is a true record of the question, representation or response.
(3)	The acknowledgment must be made by signing, initialling or otherwise marking the document.
(4)	This section does not apply to the following documents —
(a)	an audio recording, or a transcript of that type of recording;
(b)	a recording of visual images and sounds, or a transcript of that type of recording.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 86
102.	Admissions made with authority
(1)	For the purpose of determining whether a previous representation made by a person is also taken to be an admission by a party, the court must admit the representation if it is reasonably open to find that —
(a)	when the representation was made, the person had authority to make statements on behalf of the party in relation to the matter with respect to which the representation was made; or
(b)	when the representation was made, the person was an employee of the party, or had authority otherwise to act for the party, and the representation related to a matter within the scope of the person’s employment or authority; or
(c)	the representation was made by the person in furtherance of a common purpose (whether lawful or not) that the person had with the party or 1 or more persons, including the party.
(2)	For the purposes of this section, the hearsay rule does not apply to a previous representation made by a person that tends to prove —
(a)	that the person had authority to make statements on behalf of another person in relation to a matter; or
(b)	that the person was an employee of another person or had authority otherwise to act for another person; or
(c)	the scope of the person’s employment or authority.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 87
103.	Proof of admissions
For the purpose of determining under another provision of this Division whether evidence of an admission is admissible, the court must find that a particular person made the admission if it is reasonably open to find that the person made the admission.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 88
104.	Criminal proceedings: evidence of silence
(1)	In this section —
inference includes —
(a)	an inference of consciousness of guilt; or
(b)	an inference relevant to a party’s credibility.
(2)	In a criminal proceeding, an inference unfavourable to a party must not be drawn from evidence that the party or another person did not —
(a)	answer 1 or more questions put to the party or other person by an investigating official who, at that time, was performing functions in connection with the investigation of the commission, or possible commission, of an offence; or
(b)	respond to a representation made to the party or other person by an investigating official who, at that time, was performing functions in connection with the investigation of the commission, or possible commission, of an offence.
(3)	Evidence that the party or person did not answer the question or respond to the representation is not admissible if it can only be used to draw the unfavourable inference.
(4)	Subsection (2) does not prevent use of the evidence to prove that the party or other person failed or refused to answer the question or to respond to the representation if the failure or refusal is a fact in issue in the proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 89
105.	Criminal proceedings: discretion to exclude admissions
In a criminal proceeding, the court may refuse to admit evidence of an admission, or refuse to admit the evidence to prove a particular fact, if —
(a)	the evidence is adduced by the prosecution; and
(b)	having regard to the circumstances in which the admission was made, it would be unfair to an accused to use the evidence.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 90
106.	Criminal investigation rules about admissions not affected
This Division does not affect the operation of the Criminal Investigation Act 2006 Part 11.
	Division 5 — Evidence of judgments and convictions
107.	Exclusion of evidence of judgments and convictions
(1)	Evidence of the decision, or of a finding of fact, in an Australian or overseas proceeding is not admissible to prove the existence of a fact that was in issue in that proceeding.
(2)	Evidence that, under this Division, is not admissible to prove the existence of a fact must not be used to prove that fact even if it is relevant for another purpose.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 91
108.	Exceptions
(1)	Section 107(1) does not prevent the admission or use of evidence of the grant of probate, letters of administration or a similar order of a court to prove —
(a)	the death, or date of death, of a person; or
(b)	the due execution of a testamentary document.
(2)	In a criminal proceeding, section 107(1) does not prevent the admission or use of evidence of a person’s conviction of an offence to prove the material facts comprising the elements of the offence of which the person was convicted.
(3)	Subsection (2) does not apply to a conviction for an offence —
(a)	in respect of which a review or appeal (however described) has been instituted but not finally determined; or
(b)	that has been quashed or set aside.
(4)	In a civil proceeding, section 107(1) does not prevent the admission or use of evidence that a party, or a person through or under whom a party claims, has been convicted of an offence.
(5)	Subsection (4) does not apply to a conviction for an offence —
(a)	in respect of which a review or appeal (however described) has been instituted but not finally determined; or
(b)	that has been quashed or set aside; or
(c)	in respect of which a pardon has been given.
(6)	The hearsay rule and the opinion rule do not apply to evidence of a kind referred to in this section.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 92
109.	Savings
This Division does not affect the operation of —
(a)	a law that relates to the admissibility or effect of evidence of a conviction tendered in a proceeding (including a criminal proceeding) for defamation; or
(b)	a judgment in rem; or
(c)	the law relating to res judicata or issue estoppel.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 93
	Division 6 — Tendency and coincidence
110.	Application of Division
(1)	This Division does not apply to evidence that relates only to the credibility of a witness.
(2)	This Division does not apply to any part of a proceeding that relates to bail or sentencing.
(3)	This Division does not apply to evidence of the character, reputation or conduct of a person, or a tendency that a person has or had, if that character, reputation, conduct or tendency is a fact in issue.
(4)	Any principle or rule of common law or equity that prevents or restricts the admissibility of evidence about propensity or similar fact evidence in a proceeding is not relevant when applying this Division to tendency evidence or coincidence evidence about a party.
(5)	In determining the probative value of tendency evidence or coincidence evidence for the purposes of section 113(1)(b), 114(5), 115(1)(b) or 118(2), it is not open to the court to have regard to the possibility that the evidence may be the result of collusion, concoction or contamination.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (New South Wales) s. 94
111.	Use of evidence for other purposes
(1)	Evidence that under this Division is not admissible to prove a particular matter must not be used to prove that matter even if it is relevant for another purpose.
(2)	Evidence that under this Division cannot be used against a party to prove a particular matter must not be used against the party to prove that matter even if it is relevant for another purpose.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (New South Wales) s. 95
112.	Failure to act
A reference in this Division to doing an act includes a reference to failing to do that act.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (New South Wales) s. 96
113.	Tendency rule
(1)	Evidence of the character, reputation or conduct of a person, or a tendency that a person has or had, is not admissible to prove that a person has or had a tendency (whether because of the person’s character or otherwise) to act in a particular way, or to have a particular state of mind unless —
(a)	the party seeking to adduce the evidence gave reasonable notice in writing to each other party of the party’s intention to adduce the evidence; and
(b)	the court thinks that the evidence will, either by itself or having regard to other evidence adduced or to be adduced by the party seeking to adduce the evidence, have significant probative value.
(2)	Subsection (1)(a) does not apply if —
(a)	the evidence is adduced in accordance with any directions made by the court under section 117(1); or
(b)	the evidence is adduced to explain or contradict tendency evidence adduced by another party.
Note for this section:
The tendency rule is subject to specific exceptions concerning character of and expert opinion about accused persons (see sections 129 and 130). Other provisions of this Act, or of other laws, may operate as further exceptions.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (New South Wales) s. 97
114.	Admissibility of tendency evidence in proceeding involving child sexual offence
(1)	In this section —
child sexual offence —
(a)	means each of the following (however described and regardless of when it occurred) —
(i)	a sexual offence against, or arising under, a law of this State involving a complainant who was a child at the time of the offence;
(ii)	an offence against, or arising under, a law of this State involving an unlawful sexual act with, or directed towards, a person who was a child at the time of the offence;
(iii)	an offence of attempting to commit, conspiring with another person to commit, inciting another person to commit or attempting to procure another person to commit an offence referred to in subparagraph (i) or (ii);
(iv)	an offence against, or arising under, a law of the Commonwealth, another State, a Territory or a foreign country that, if committed in this State, would have been an offence of a kind referred to in subparagraph (i), (ii) or (iii);
but
(b)	does not include conduct of a person that has ceased to be an offence against, or arising under, a law of this State since the time when the person engaged in the conduct.
(2)	This section applies to a criminal proceeding in which the commission by the accused of an act that constitutes, or may constitute, a child sexual offence is a fact in issue.
(3)	It is presumed that the following tendency evidence about the accused will have significant probative value for the purposes of sections 113(1)(b) and 118(2) —
(a)	tendency evidence about the sexual interest the accused has or had in children (even if the accused has not acted on the interest);
(b)	tendency evidence about the accused acting on a sexual interest the accused has or had in children.
(4)	Subsection (3) applies whether or not the sexual interest or act to which the tendency evidence relates was directed at a complainant in the proceeding, any other child or children generally.
(5)	Despite subsection (3), the court may determine that the tendency evidence does not have significant probative value if it is satisfied that there are sufficient grounds to do so.
(6)	The following matters (whether considered individually or in combination) are not to be taken into account when determining whether there are sufficient grounds for the purposes of subsection (5) unless the court considers there are exceptional circumstances in relation to those matters (whether considered individually or in combination) to warrant taking them into account —
(a)	the sexual interest or act to which the tendency evidence relates (the tendency sexual interest or act) is different from the sexual interest or act alleged in the proceeding (the alleged sexual interest or act);
(b)	the circumstances in which the tendency sexual interest or act occurred are different from circumstances in which the alleged sexual interest or act occurred;
(c)	the personal characteristics of the subject of the tendency sexual interest or act (for example, the subject’s age, sex or gender) are different to those of the subject of the alleged sexual interest or act;
(d)	the relationship between the accused and the subject of the tendency sexual interest or act is different from the relationship between the accused and the subject of the alleged sexual interest or act;
(e)	the period of time between the occurrence of the tendency sexual interest or act and the occurrence of the alleged sexual interest or act;
(f)	the tendency sexual interest or act and alleged sexual interest or act do not share distinctive or unusual features;
(g)	the level of generality of the tendency to which the tendency evidence relates.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (New South Wales) s. 97A
115.	Coincidence rule
(1)	Evidence that 2 or more events occurred is not admissible to prove that a person did a particular act or had a particular state of mind on the basis that, having regard to any similarities in the events or the circumstances in which they occurred, or any similarities in both the events and the circumstances in which they occurred, it is improbable that the events occurred coincidentally unless —
(a)	the party seeking to adduce the evidence gave reasonable notice in writing to each other party of the party’s intention to adduce the evidence; and
(b)	the court thinks that the evidence will, either by itself or having regard to other evidence adduced or to be adduced by the party seeking to adduce the evidence, have significant probative value.
(2)	Subsection (1) includes the use of evidence from 2 or more witnesses claiming they are victims of offences committed by a person who is an accused in a criminal proceeding to prove, on the basis of similarities in the claimed acts or the circumstances in which they occurred, that the accused did an act in issue in the proceeding.
(3)	Subsection (1)(a) does not apply if —
(a)	the evidence is adduced in accordance with any directions made by the court under section 117(2); or
(b)	the evidence is adduced to explain or contradict coincidence evidence adduced by another party.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (New South Wales) s. 98
116.	Requirements for notices
Notices given under section 113(1)(a) or 115(1)(a) must be given in accordance with any regulations or rules of court made for the purposes of this section.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (New South Wales) s. 99
117.	Court may dispense with notice requirements
(1)	A court may, on the application of a party, direct that the tendency rule is not to apply to particular tendency evidence despite the party’s failure to give notice under section 113(1)(a).
(2)	A court may, on the application of a party, direct that the coincidence rule is not to apply to particular coincidence evidence despite the party’s failure to give notice under section 115(1)(a).
(3)	An application under subsection (1) or (2) may be made either before or after the time by which the party would, apart from this section, be required to give, or to have given, the notice.
(4)	In a civil proceeding, a party’s application may be made without notice of it having been given to 1 or more of the other parties.
(5)	A direction under subsection (1) or (2) —
(a)	is subject to any conditions the court thinks fit; and
(b)	may be given either at or before the hearing.
(6)	Without limiting the court’s power to impose conditions on the direction, those conditions may include 1 or more of the following —
(a)	a condition that the party give notice of its intention to adduce the evidence to a specified party, or to each other party other than a specified party;
(b)	a condition that the party give that notice only in respect of specified tendency evidence, or all tendency evidence that the party intends to adduce other than specified tendency evidence;
(c)	a condition that the party give that notice only in respect of specified coincidence evidence, or all coincidence evidence that the party intends to adduce other than specified coincidence evidence.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (New South Wales) s. 100
118.	Further restrictions on tendency evidence and coincidence evidence adduced by prosecution
(1)	This section only applies to a criminal proceeding and applies in addition to sections 113 and 115.
(2)	Tendency evidence about an accused, or coincidence evidence about an accused, that is adduced by the prosecution cannot be used against the accused unless the probative value of the evidence outweighs the danger of unfair prejudice to the accused.
(3)	This section does not apply to tendency evidence that the prosecution adduces to explain or contradict tendency evidence adduced by the accused.
(4)	This section does not apply to coincidence evidence that the prosecution adduces to explain or contradict coincidence evidence adduced by the accused.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (New South Wales) s. 101
	Division 7 — Credibility
	Subdivision 1 — Preliminary
119.	Term used: credibility evidence
In this Division —
credibility evidence, in relation to a witness or other person, means evidence relevant to the credibility of the witness or person that —
(a)	is relevant only because it affects the assessment of the credibility of the witness or person; or
(b)	is relevant —
(i)	because it affects the assessment of the credibility of the witness or person; and
(ii)	for some other purpose for which it is not admissible, or cannot be used, because of a provision of Divisions 2 to 6.
Note for this section:
This section relates to the decision of the High Court of Australia in Adam v The Queen (2001) 207 CLR 96.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 101A
	Subdivision 2 — Credibility of witnesses
120.	Credibility rule
Credibility evidence about a witness is not admissible.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 102
121.	Exception: cross-examination as to credibility
(1)	The credibility rule does not apply to evidence adduced in cross-examination of a witness (including the contents of a document tendered in cross-examination of a witness) if the evidence could substantially affect the assessment of the credibility of the witness.
(2)	Without limiting the matters to which the court may have regard for the purposes of subsection (1), it must have regard to —
(a)	whether the evidence tends to prove that the witness made a false representation when —
(i)	the witness was under an obligation to tell the truth; and
(ii)	the witness knew, or ought to have known, that the representation was false;
and
(b)	the period that has elapsed since the acts or events to which the evidence relates were done or occurred.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 103
122.	Further protections: cross-examination of accused
(1)	This section applies only to credibility evidence in a criminal proceeding and applies in addition to section 121.
(2)	An accused must not be cross-examined about a matter that is relevant to the assessment of the accused’s credibility unless the court gives leave.
(3)	Despite subsection (2), leave is not required for cross-examination by the prosecutor about whether the accused —
(a)	is biased or has a motive to be untruthful; or
(b)	is, or was, unable to be aware of or recall matters to which the accused’s evidence relates; or
(c)	has made a prior inconsistent statement.
(4)	Leave must not be given for cross-examination by the prosecutor under subsection (2) unless evidence adduced by the accused has been admitted that —
(a)	tends to prove that a witness called by the prosecutor has a tendency to be untruthful; and
(b)	is relevant solely or mainly to the witness’s credibility.
(5)	A reference in subsection (4) to evidence does not include a reference to evidence of conduct in relation to —
(a)	the events the subject of the prosecution; or
(b)	the investigation of the offence for which the accused is being prosecuted.
(6)	Leave must not be given for cross-examination by a co-accused under subsection (2) unless —
(a)	the evidence that the accused to be cross-examined has given includes evidence adverse to the accused seeking leave to cross-examine; and
(b)	that evidence has been admitted.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 104
123.	Exception: rebutting denials by other evidence
(1)	The credibility rule does not apply to evidence that is relevant to a witness’s credibility and that is adduced otherwise than from the witness if —
(a)	the substance of the evidence was put to the witness in cross-examination of the witness and the witness denied, or did not admit or agree to, the substance of the evidence; and
(b)	the court gives leave to adduce the evidence.
(2)	Leave under subsection (1)(b) is not required if the evidence tends to prove that the witness —
(a)	is biased or has a motive for being untruthful; or
(b)	has been convicted of an offence, including an offence against the law of a foreign country; or
(c)	has made a prior inconsistent statement; or
(d)	is, or was, unable to be aware of matters to which the witness’s evidence relates; or
(e)	has made a false representation while under an obligation, imposed by or under an Australian law or a law of a foreign country, to tell the truth and the witness knew, or ought to have known, that the representation was false.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 106
124.	Exception: re-establishing credibility
(1)	The credibility rule does not apply to evidence adduced in re-examination of a witness.
(2)	The credibility rule does not apply to evidence of a prior consistent statement of a witness if —
(a)	evidence of a prior inconsistent statement of the witness has been admitted; or
(b)	it is or will be suggested (either expressly or by implication) that evidence given by the witness has been fabricated or reconstructed (whether deliberately or otherwise) or is the result of a suggestion.
(3)	Subsection (2) applies only if the court gives leave to adduce the evidence of the prior consistent statement.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 108
	Subdivision 3 — Credibility of persons who are not witnesses
125.	Admissibility of evidence of credibility of person who has made previous representation
(1)	Credibility evidence about a person who made a representation and who has not been called, and will not be called, to give evidence in the proceeding is not admissible unless —
(a)	evidence of the representation has been admitted in the proceeding; and
(b)	the credibility evidence could substantially affect the assessment of the person’s credibility.
(2)	Without limiting the matters to which the court may have regard for the purposes of subsection (1), it must have regard to —
(a)	whether the evidence tends to prove that the person who made the representation —
(i)	made a false representation when the person was under an obligation to tell the truth; and
(ii)	knew, or ought to have known, that the representation was false;
and
(b)	the period that elapsed between the doing of the acts or the occurrence of the events to which the representation related and the making of the representation.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 108A
126.	Further protections: previous representations of accused who is not witness
(1)	This section applies only to a criminal proceeding and applies in addition to section 125.
(2)	If the person referred to in section 125 is an accused, the credibility evidence is not admissible unless the court gives leave.
(3)	Despite subsection (2), leave is not required if the evidence is about whether the accused —
(a)	is biased or has a motive to be untruthful; or
(b)	is, or was, unable to be aware of or recall matters to which the accused’s previous representation relates; or
(c)	has made a prior inconsistent statement.
(4)	The prosecution must not be given leave under subsection (2) unless evidence adduced by the accused has been admitted that —
(a)	tends to prove that a witness called by the prosecution has a tendency to be untruthful; and
(b)	is relevant solely or mainly to the witness’s credibility.
(5)	A reference in subsection (4) to evidence does not include a reference to evidence of conduct in relation to —
(a)	the events the subject of the prosecution; or
(b)	the investigation of the offence for which the accused is being prosecuted.
(6)	A co-accused must not be given leave under subsection (2) unless the previous representation of the accused that has been admitted includes evidence adverse to the co-accused.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 108B
	Subdivision 4 — Persons with specialised knowledge
127.	Exception: evidence of persons with specialised knowledge
(1)	The credibility rule does not apply to evidence given by a person concerning the credibility of another witness if —
(a)	the person has specialised knowledge based on the person’s training, study or experience; and
(b)	the evidence is evidence of an opinion of the person that —
(i)	is wholly or substantially based on that knowledge; and
(ii)	could substantially affect the assessment of the credibility of a witness;
and
(c)	the court gives leave to adduce the evidence.
(2)	Without limiting subsection (1) —
(a)	a reference in that subsection to specialised knowledge includes a reference to specialised knowledge of child development and child behaviour (including specialised knowledge of the impact of sexual abuse on children and their behaviour during and following the abuse); and
(b)	a reference in that subsection to an opinion of a person includes, if the person has specialised knowledge of the kind referred to in paragraph (a), a reference to an opinion relating to either or both of the following —
(i)	the development and behaviour of children generally;
(ii)	the development and behaviour of children who have been victims of sexual abuse.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 108C
	Division 8 — Character
128.	Application of Division
This Division applies only in a criminal proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 109
129.	Evidence about character of accused
(1)	The hearsay rule, the opinion rule, the tendency rule and the credibility rule do not apply to evidence adduced by an accused to prove (directly or by implication) that the accused is, either generally or in a particular respect, a person of good character.
(2)	If evidence adduced to prove (directly or by implication) that an accused is generally a person of good character has been admitted, the hearsay rule, the opinion rule, the tendency rule and the credibility rule do not apply to evidence adduced to prove (directly or by implication) that the accused is not generally a person of good character.
(3)	If evidence adduced to prove (directly or by implication) that an accused is a person of good character in a particular respect has been admitted, the hearsay rule, the opinion rule, the tendency rule and the credibility rule do not apply to evidence adduced to prove (directly or by implication) that the accused is not a person of good character in that respect.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 110
130.	Evidence about character of co-accused
(1)	The hearsay rule and the tendency rule do not apply to evidence of an accused’s character if —
(a)	the evidence is evidence of an opinion about the accused adduced by a co-accused; and
(b)	the person whose opinion it is has specialised knowledge based on the person’s training, study or experience; and
(c)	the opinion is wholly or substantially based on that knowledge.
(2)	If the evidence has been admitted, the hearsay rule, the opinion rule and the tendency rule do not apply to evidence adduced to prove that the admitted evidence should not be accepted.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 111
131.	Leave required to cross-examine about character of accused
An accused must not be cross-examined about matters arising out of evidence of a kind referred to in this Division unless the court gives leave.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 112
	Division 9 — Identification evidence
132.	Application of Division
This Division applies only in a criminal proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 113
133.	Terms used
In this Division —
identification evidence means evidence that is an assertion, or a report (whether oral or in writing) of an assertion, made by a person, being an assertion —
(a)	to the effect that an accused was, or resembles (visually, aurally or otherwise), a person who —
(i)	was present at or near a place where the offence for which the accused is being prosecuted was committed at or about the time at which the offence was committed; or
(ii)	was present at or near a place where an act connected to that offence was done at or about the time at which the act was done;
and
(b)	that is based wholly or partly on what the person making the assertion saw, heard or otherwise perceived at that place and time;
identification record means an image or any other document that includes, or could be used to produce, images or sounds that could be used to identify a person;
police-assisted identification evidence means identification evidence relating to an identification made wholly or partly by a person who made the identification using identification records provided by police.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 115 and Dictionary Part 1
134.	Exclusion of certain police-assisted identification evidence
(1)	Police-assisted identification evidence adduced by the prosecutor is not admissible if the identification records used suggest that they are identification records of persons in custody.
(2)	If police-assisted identification evidence adduced by the prosecutor is admitted into evidence, the judge must give the following direction to the jury —
(a)	if the identification record of the accused was made after the accused was taken into custody — a direction informing the jury that the identification record was made after the accused was taken into that custody;
(b)	otherwise — a direction warning the jury that they must not assume that the accused has a criminal record or has previously been charged with an offence solely because the identification was made using identification records provided by police.
(3)	The judge must give a direction under subsection (2) unless satisfied that there is good reason for not giving that direction.
(4)	The judge must state the reason for refusing to give a direction under subsection (2) if the direction is requested by the accused.
(5)	This section does not render inadmissible police-assisted identification evidence adduced by the prosecutor that contradicts or qualifies police-assisted identification evidence adduced by the accused.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 115
135.	Directions to jury
(1)	If identification evidence has been admitted, the judge must inform the jury —
(a)	that there is a special need for caution before accepting identification evidence; and
(b)	of the reasons for that need for caution, both generally and in the circumstances of the case.
(2)	It is not necessary that a particular form of words be used in informing the jury.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 116
	Division 10 — Evidence of family violence
	Subdivision 1 — Preliminary
136.	Terms used
In this Division —
family member has the meaning given in the Restraining Orders Act 1997 section 4(3);
help-seeking behaviour —
(a)	means any action undertaken by a victim of family violence to address, or attempt to address, any aspect of the family violence; and
(b)	includes reporting the family violence to the police, obtaining a restraining order, finding accommodation in a refuge, separating from an abusive person or seeking counselling or external support;
safety option, in relation to an accused who is (or may be) a victim of family violence, means an act that may have stopped the violence, other than an act that constitutes (or allegedly constitutes) an offence with which the accused is charged.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 37
137.	What may constitute evidence of family violence
(1)	For the purposes of this Division, evidence of family violence, in relation to a person, includes (but is not limited to) evidence of any of the following —
(a)	the history of the relationship between the person and a family member, including violence by the family member towards the person, or by the person towards the family member, or by the family member of the person in relation to any other family member;
(b)	the cumulative effect of family violence, including the psychological effect, on the person or a family member affected by that violence;
(c)	social, cultural or economic factors that impact on the person or a family member who has been affected by family violence;
(d)	responses by family, community or agencies to family violence, including further violence that may be used by a family member to prevent, or in retaliation to, help-seeking behaviour or use of safety options by the person;
(e)	ways in which social, cultural, economic or personal factors have affected any help-seeking behaviour undertaken by the person, or the safety options realistically available to the person, in response to family violence;
(f)	ways in which violence by the family member towards the person, or the lack of safety options, were exacerbated by inequities experienced by the person, including inequities associated with (but not limited to) race, poverty, sex, gender, disability or age;
(g)	the general nature and dynamics of relationships affected by family violence, including the possible consequences of separation from a person who commits family violence;
(h)	the psychological effect of family violence on people who are or have been in a relationship affected by family violence;
(i)	social or economic factors that impact on people who are or have been in a relationship affected by family violence.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not affect the operation of the Restraining Orders Act 1997 section 5A(2).
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 38
	Subdivision 2 — Admissibility of evidence of family violence
138.	Expert evidence of family violence
(1)	In this section —
expert, on the subject of family violence, means a person who has specialised knowledge, based on training, study or experience, on the subject of family violence (including any matter that may constitute evidence of family violence).
(2)	This section applies to any proceeding in which evidence of family violence is relevant to a fact in issue.
(3)	The evidence of an expert on the subject of family violence is admissible in relation to any matter that may constitute evidence of family violence.
(4)	Evidence given by the expert may include —
(a)	evidence about the nature and effects of family violence on any person; and
(b)	evidence about the effect of family violence on a particular person who has been the subject of family violence.
(5)	This section does not affect the operation of section 94 or 127.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 39
139.	Evidence of family violence: general provision
Evidence of family violence is admissible if family violence is relevant to a fact in issue.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 39A
140.	Evidence of family violence: self-defence
Without limiting any other evidence that may be adduced, in a criminal proceeding in which self-defence in response to family violence is an issue, evidence of family violence may be relevant to determining whether —
(a)	a person has a belief that an act was necessary to defend the person or another person from a harmful act, including a harmful act that was not imminent; or
(b)	a person’s act was a reasonable response by the person in the circumstances as the person believed them to be; or
(c)	there are reasonable grounds for a particular belief held by a person.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 39B
	Subdivision 3 — Directions relating to family violence in criminal proceedings
141.	Request for direction on family violence: self-defence
(1)	In a criminal proceeding before a jury in which self-defence in response to family violence is an issue, the legal counsel acting for the accused (or, if the accused is unrepresented, the accused) may request at any time that the judge direct the jury on family violence in accordance with —
(a)	section 143; and
(b)	all or specified parts of section 144.
(2)	The judge must give a requested direction on family violence, including all or specified parts of section 144 if requested, unless satisfied there is good reason for not doing so.
(3)	If a direction on family violence is not requested, the judge may give the direction if the judge considers that it is in the interests of justice to do so.
(4)	The judge —
(a)	must give the direction as soon as practicable after the request is made; and
(b)	may give the direction before any evidence is adduced in the proceeding.
(5)	The judge may repeat a direction at any time during the proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 39C
142.	Request for direction on family violence: general
(1)	In a criminal proceeding before a jury in which family violence is an issue, the prosecutor or the legal counsel acting for the accused (or, if the accused is unrepresented, the accused) may request at any time that the judge direct the jury on family violence in accordance with all or specified parts of section 144.
(2)	The judge must give a requested direction on family violence, including all or specified parts of section 144 if requested, unless satisfied there is good reason for not doing so.
(3)	If a direction on family violence is not requested, the judge may give the direction if the judge considers that it is in the interests of justice to do so.
(4)	The judge —
(a)	must give the direction as soon as practicable after the request is made; and
(b)	may give the direction before any evidence is adduced in the proceeding.
(5)	The judge may repeat a direction at any time during the proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 39D
143.	Content of direction on family violence: self-defence
In a direction under section 141, the judge must inform the jury that —
(a)	self-defence is, or is likely to be, an issue in the trial; and
(b)	as a matter of law, evidence of family violence may be relevant to determining whether the accused acted in self-defence; and
(c)	evidence in the trial is likely to include evidence of family violence committed by the victim against the accused or another person whom the accused was defending.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 39E
144.	Content of direction on family violence: general
(1)	In a direction under section 141 or 142, the judge may inform the jury of all or any of the following matters —
(a)	that family violence —
(i)	is not limited to physical abuse and may, for example, include sexual abuse, psychological abuse or financial abuse; and
(ii)	may amount to violence against a person even though it is immediately directed at another person; and
(iii)	may consist of a single act; and
(iv)	may consist of separate acts that form part of a pattern of behaviour that can amount to abuse even though some or all of those acts may, when viewed in isolation, appear to be minor or trivial;
(b)	if relevant, that experience shows that —
(i)	people may react differently to family violence and there is no typical, proper or normal response to family violence; and
(ii)	it is not uncommon for a person who has been subjected to family violence to stay with an abusive partner after the onset of family violence, or to leave and then return to the partner; and
(iii)	it is not uncommon for a person who has been subjected to family violence not to report family violence to police or seek assistance to stop family violence; and
(iv)	decisions made by a person subjected to family violence about how to address, respond to or avoid family violence may be influenced by a variety of factors; and
(v)	it is not uncommon for a decision to leave an abusive partner, or to seek assistance, to increase apprehension about, or the actual risk of, harm;
(c)	in the case of self-defence, that, as a matter of law, evidence that the accused assaulted the victim on a previous occasion does not mean that the accused could not have been acting in self-defence in relation to the offence charged.
(2)	The judge may also indicate that behaviour, or patterns of behaviour, that may constitute family violence may include (but are not limited to) the following —
(a)	placing or keeping a person in a dependent or subordinate relationship;
(b)	isolating a person from family, friends or other sources of support;
(c)	controlling, regulating or monitoring a person’s day-to-day activities;
(d)	depriving or restricting a person’s freedom of movement or action;
(e)	restricting a person’s ability to resist violence;
(f)	frightening, humiliating, degrading or punishing a person, including punishing a person for resisting violence;
(g)	compelling a person to engage in unlawful or harmful conduct.
(3)	If the judge makes a direction that relates to subsection (1)(b)(iv), the judge may also indicate that decisions made by a person subjected to family violence about how to address, respond to or avoid family violence may be influenced by matters such as the following —
(a)	the family violence itself;
(b)	social, cultural, economic or personal factors or inequities experienced by the person, including inequities associated with (but not limited to) race, poverty, sex, gender, disability or age;
(c)	responses by family, community or agencies to the family violence or to any help-seeking behaviour or use of safety options by the person;
(d)	the provision of, or failure in the provision of, safety options that might realistically have provided ongoing safety to the person, and the person’s perceptions of how effective those safety options might have been to prevent further harm;
(e)	further violence, or the threat of further violence, used by a family member to prevent, or in retaliation to, any help-seeking behaviour or use of safety options by the person.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 39F
145.	Application to criminal proceeding without jury
In a criminal proceeding in which there is no jury, the court’s reasoning with respect to any matter for which a direction on family violence makes provision must, to the extent that the court thinks fit, be consistent with how a jury would have been directed in the particular case.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 39G
146.	Other directions may be given
This Subdivision does not affect any other power of a judge to give a warning to, or to inform, the jury, including in relation to evidence given by an expert witness.
Note for this section:
Part 8 Division 3 contains further provisions about warnings and information that must or may be given to a jury.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 39C(6) and 39D(6)
	Subdivision 4 — Application to civil proceedings
147.	Court may take into account family violence direction matters
(1)	In this section —
family violence direction matter means a matter mentioned in section 144 that may be included in a direction on family violence in a criminal proceeding in which family violence is an issue.
(2)	In a civil proceeding in which family violence is an issue, the court may treat any of the family violence direction matters that are relevant to the proceeding as matters for which proof is not required.
(3)	This section does not prevent evidence being adduced of a family violence direction matter.
	Part 4 — Privileges
	Division 1 — Client legal privilege
148.	Terms used
(1)	In this Division —
client includes the following —
(a)	a person or body who engages a legal representative to provide legal services or who employs a legal representative (including under a contract of service);
(b)	an employee or agent of a client;
(c)	an employer of a legal representative if the employer is —
(i)	the Commonwealth or a State or Territory; or
(ii)	a body established by a law of the Commonwealth or a State or Territory;
(d)	if, under a law of a State or Territory relating to persons who lack capacity, a manager, committee or person (however described) is for the time being acting in respect of the person, estate or property of a client — the manager, committee or person acting;
(e)	if a client has died — a personal representative of the client;
(f)	a successor to the rights and obligations of a client, being rights and obligations in respect of which a confidential communication was made;
confidential communication means a communication made in such circumstances that, when it was made, either the person who made it or the person to whom it was made was under an express or implied obligation not to disclose its contents, whether or not the obligation arises under law;
confidential document means a document prepared in such circumstances that, when it was prepared, either the person who prepared it or the person for whom it was prepared was under an express or implied obligation not to disclose its contents, whether or not the obligation arises under law;
legal representative means —
(a)	a lawyer; or
(b)	an Australian-registered foreign lawyer (as defined in the Legal Profession Uniform Law (WA) section 6(1)); or
(c)	a natural person who, under the law of a foreign country, is permitted to engage in legal practice in the foreign country; or
(d)	an employee or agent of a person referred to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c);
party includes the following —
(a)	an employee or agent of a party;
(b)	if, under a law of a State or Territory relating to persons who lack capacity, a manager, committee or person (however described) is for the time being acting in respect of the person, estate or property of a party — the manager, committee or person acting;
(c)	if a party has died — a personal representative of the party;
(d)	a successor to the rights and obligations of a party, being rights and obligations in respect of which a confidential communication was made.
(2)	A reference in this Division to the commission of an act includes a reference to a failure to act.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 117
149.	Legal advice
(1)	Evidence must not be adduced if, on objection by a client, the court finds that adducing the evidence would result in disclosure of —
(a)	a confidential communication made between the client and a legal representative that is privileged under this section; or
(b)	a confidential communication made between 2 or more legal representatives acting for the client that is privileged under this section; or
(c)	the contents of a confidential document (whether delivered or not) prepared by the client, legal representative or another person, being a confidential document that is privileged under this section.
(2)	A confidential communication, or a confidential document, is privileged under this section if it was made or prepared for the dominant purpose of the legal representative, or 1 or more of the legal representatives, providing legal advice to the client.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 118
150.	Litigation
(1)	Evidence must not be adduced if, on objection by a client, the court finds that adducing the evidence would result in disclosure of —
(a)	a confidential communication between the client and another person, or between a legal representative acting for the client and another person, that is privileged under this section; or
(b)	the contents of a confidential document (whether delivered or not), being a confidential document that is privileged under this section.
(2)	A confidential communication, or a confidential document, is privileged under this section if it was made or prepared for the dominant purpose of the client being provided with professional legal services relating to —
(a)	an Australian or overseas proceeding (including the proceeding before the court) in which the client is or may be, or was or might have been, a party; or
(b)	an anticipated or pending Australian or overseas proceeding in which the client is or may be, or was or might have been, a party.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 119
151.	Unrepresented parties
(1)	Evidence must not be adduced if, on objection by a party who is not represented in the proceeding by a legal representative, the court finds that adducing the evidence would result in disclosure of —
(a)	a confidential communication made between the party and another person that is privileged under this section; or
(b)	the contents of a confidential document (whether delivered or not) that was prepared, either by or at the direction or request of, the party, being a confidential document that is privileged under this section.
(2)	A confidential communication, or a confidential document, is privileged under this section if it was made or prepared for the dominant purpose of preparing for or conducting the proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 120
152.	Loss of client legal privilege: generally
(1)	This Division does not prevent the adducing of evidence relevant to a question concerning the intentions, or competence in law, of a client or party who has died.
(2)	This Division does not prevent the adducing of evidence if, were the evidence not adduced, the court would be prevented, or it could reasonably be expected that the court would be prevented, from enforcing an order of an Australian court.
(3)	This Division does not prevent the adducing of evidence of a communication or document that affects a right of a person.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 121
153.	Loss of client legal privilege: consent and related matters
(1)	This Division does not prevent the adducing of evidence given with the consent of the client or party concerned.
(2)	This Division does not prevent the adducing of evidence if the client or party concerned has acted in a way that is inconsistent with the client or party objecting to the adducing of the evidence because it would result in a disclosure of a kind referred to in section 149(1), 150(1) or 151(1).
(3)	Without limiting subsection (2), a client or party is taken to have acted in a way that is inconsistent with objecting to the adducing of the evidence if —
(a)	the client or party knowingly and voluntarily disclosed the substance of the evidence to another person; or
(b)	the substance of the evidence has been disclosed with the express or implied consent of the client or party.
(4)	The reference in subsection (3)(a) to a knowing and voluntary disclosure does not include a reference to a disclosure by a person who was, at the time of the disclosure, an employee or agent of the client or party or of a legal representative of the client or party unless the employee or agent was authorised by the client, party or legal representative to make the disclosure.
(5)	A client or party is not taken to have acted in a manner inconsistent with the client or party objecting to the adducing of the evidence merely because —
(a)	the substance of the evidence has been disclosed —
(i)	in the course of making a confidential communication or preparing a confidential document; or
(ii)	as a result of duress or deception; or
(iii)	under compulsion of law; or
(iv)	if the client or party is a body established by, or a person holding an office under, an Australian law — to the Minister, or the Minister of the Commonwealth, the State or Territory, administering the law, or part of the law, under which the body is established or the office is held;
or
(b)	of a disclosure by a client to another person if the disclosure concerns a matter in relation to which the same legal representative is providing, or is to provide, professional legal services to both the client and the other person; or
(c)	of a disclosure to a person with whom the client or party had, at the time of the disclosure, a common interest relating to the proceeding or an anticipated or pending proceeding in an Australian court or a foreign court.
(6)	This Division does not prevent the adducing of evidence of a document that a witness has used to try to revive the witness’s memory about a fact or opinion or has used as mentioned in section 41 or 42.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 122
154.	Loss of client legal privilege: accused
In a criminal proceeding, this Division does not prevent an accused from adducing evidence unless it is evidence of —
(a)	a confidential communication made between a co-accused and a legal representative acting for the co-accused in connection with the prosecution of that co-accused; or
(b)	the contents of a confidential document prepared by a co-accused or by a legal representative acting for the co-accused in connection with the prosecution of that co-accused.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 123
155.	Loss of client legal privilege: joint clients
(1)	This section only applies to a civil proceeding in connection with which 2 or more parties have, before the commencement of the proceeding, jointly retained a legal representative in relation to the same matter.
(2)	This Division does not prevent 1 of those parties from adducing evidence of —
(a)	a communication made by any of them to the legal representative in connection with that matter; or
(b)	the contents of a confidential document prepared by or at the direction or request of any of them in connection with that matter.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 124
156.	Loss of client legal privilege: misconduct
(1)	In this section —
power means a power conferred by or under an Australian law.
(2)	This Division does not prevent the adducing of evidence of a communication, or the contents of a document, made or prepared by a client or legal representative (or both), or a party who is not represented in a proceeding by a legal representative, if —
(a)	the communication or document was made or prepared in furtherance of the commission of a fraud or an offence or the commission of an act that renders a person liable to a civil penalty; or
(b)	the client or legal representative (or both), or the party, knew or ought reasonably to have known that the communication or document was made or prepared in furtherance of a deliberate abuse of power.
(3)	If the commission of the fraud, offence or act, or the abuse of power, is a fact in issue, the court may find that a communication was made or a document was prepared in furtherance of the fraud, offence or act or the abuse of power if there are reasonable grounds for finding that —
(a)	the fraud, offence or act, or the abuse of power, was committed; and
(b)	the communication was made or the document was prepared in furtherance of the commission of the fraud, offence or act or the abuse of power.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 125
157.	Loss of client legal privilege: related communications and documents
If, because of the application of section 152, 153, 154, 155 or 156, this Division does not prevent the adducing of evidence of a communication or the contents of a document, those sections do not prevent the adducing of evidence of another communication or document if it is reasonably necessary to enable a proper understanding of the communication or document.
Example for this section:
A legal representative advises a client to understate the client’s income for the previous year to evade taxation because of potential tax liability “as set out in my previous letter to you dated 11 August 2019”. In a proceeding against the taxpayer for tax evasion, evidence of the contents of the letter dated 11 August 2019 may be admissible (even if that letter would otherwise be privileged) to enable a proper understanding of the second letter.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 126
	Division 2 — Professional confidential relationship privilege
158.	Terms used
(1)	In this Division —
confidant —
(a)	means a person to whom a communication is made in confidence; and
(b)	includes a journalist (as defined in section 179);
protected confidence means a communication made by a person in confidence to a confidant —
(a)	in the course of a relationship in which the confidant was acting in a professional capacity; and
(b)	when the confidant was under an express or implied obligation not to disclose its contents, whether or not the obligation arises under law or can be inferred from the nature of the relationship between the person and the confidant;
protected confider means a person who made a protected confidence;
protected identity information means information about, or enabling a person to ascertain, the identity of a protected confider.
(2)	For the purposes of this Division, if a person makes a communication in confidence to a minister of religion acting in the minister’s capacity as a minister of religion and in accordance with the tenets of the minister’s faith or religion, the communication is made in the course of a relationship in which the minister is acting in a professional capacity.
(3)	For the purposes of this Division, a communication may be made in confidence even if it is made in the presence of a third party if the third party’s presence is necessary to facilitate communication.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 20A
159.	Exclusion of evidence of protected confidences
(1)	A court may direct that evidence not be adduced in a proceeding if the court finds that adducing it would disclose —
(a)	a protected confidence; or
(b)	the contents of a document recording a protected confidence; or
(c)	protected identity information.
(2)	The court may give a direction under subsection (1) —
(a)	on its own initiative; or
(b)	on the application of the protected confider or confidant concerned (whether or not either is a party).
(3)	The court must give a direction under subsection (1) if satisfied that —
(a)	it is likely that harm would or might be caused (whether directly or indirectly) to a protected confider if the evidence is adduced; and
(b)	the nature and extent of the harm outweighs the desirability of the evidence being given.
(4)	Without limiting the matters that the court may take into account for the purposes of this section, the court must take into account the following matters —
(a)	the probative value of the evidence in the proceeding;
(b)	the importance of the evidence in the proceeding;
(c)	the nature and gravity of the relevant offence, cause of action or defence and the nature of the subject matter of the proceeding;
(d)	the availability of any other evidence concerning the matters to which the protected confidence or protected identity information relates;
(e)	the likely effect of adducing evidence of the protected confidence or protected identity information, including the likelihood of harm, and the nature and extent of harm that would be caused to the protected confider;
(f)	the means (including any ancillary orders that may be made under section 162) available to the court to limit the harm or extent of the harm that is likely to be caused if evidence of the protected confidence or the protected identity information is disclosed;
(g)	if the proceeding is a criminal proceeding — whether the party seeking to adduce evidence of the protected confidence or protected identity information is an accused or the prosecutor;
(h)	whether the substance of the protected confidence or the protected identity information has already been disclosed by the protected confider or any other person;
(i)	the public interest in preserving the confidentiality of protected confidences;
(j)	the public interest in preserving the confidentiality of protected identity information.
(5)	The court must state the reason for giving or refusing to give a direction under this section.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 20C
160.	Loss of professional confidential relationship privilege: consent
This Division does not prevent the adducing of evidence given with the consent of the protected confider concerned.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 20D
161.	Loss of professional confidential relationship privilege: misconduct
(1)	This Division does not prevent the adducing of evidence of a communication made or the contents of a document prepared in the furtherance of the commission of a fraud or an offence or the commission of an act that renders a person liable to a civil penalty.
(2)	If the commission of the fraud, offence or act is a fact in issue, the court may find that the communication was made, or the document was prepared, in furtherance of the commission of the fraud, offence or act if there are reasonable grounds for finding that —
(a)	the fraud, offence or act was committed; and
(b)	the communication was made or the document was prepared in furtherance of the commission of the fraud, offence or act.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (New South Wales) s. 126D
162.	Ancillary orders
Without limiting any action that the court may take to limit the possible harm, or extent of the harm, likely to be caused by the disclosure of evidence of a protected confidence or protected identity information, the court may —
(a)	order that all or part of the evidence be heard in private; and
(b)	make any order relating to the suppression of publication of all or part of the evidence given before the court that, in its opinion, is necessary to protect the safety and welfare of the protected confider and is in the interests of justice.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 20F
163.	Relationship between this Division and other privileges
(1)	This Division does not apply to a protected communication.
(2)	However, a court may direct that evidence not be adduced under this Division whether or not the evidence is privileged under another section of this Part or would be privileged except for a limitation or restriction imposed by that section.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 20B(3) and (6)
	Division 3 — Counselling communications relating to sexual offences
164.	Terms used
(1)	In this Division —
counselling communication has the meaning given in section 165(2);
counsels has the meaning given in section 165(4);
discloses, in relation to a protected communication, has the meaning given in section 166(2);
protected person, in relation to a protected communication, means —
(a)	the sexual offence complainant; or
(b)	any person who made the protected communication; or
(c)	an interpreter through whom the protected communication was made;
require disclosure, of a protected communication, has the meaning given in section 166(3);
supporting affidavit has the meaning given in section 167(1)(b);
support person, for a complainant, means a parent, carer or other supportive person who is present when a person counsels the complainant to facilitate communication between the complainant and the counsellor or to further the counselling process in some other way.
(2)	In this Division, a reference to a document recording a protected communication includes a reference to a document recording any report, observation, opinion, advice, recommendation or other matter that relates to a protected communication made by a protected person.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 19A and 19B
165.	Counselling communications that are protected communications
(1)	A counselling communication that is made by, to or about a sexual offence complainant is a protected communication.
(2)	Each of the following is a counselling communication —
(a)	a communication made in confidence by a sexual offence complainant to another person (the counsellor) who is counselling the complainant in relation to any harm the complainant may have suffered;
(b)	a communication made in confidence to or about a sexual offence complainant by the counsellor in the course of the counselling process;
(c)	a communication made in confidence about a sexual offence complainant by a support person in the course of the counselling process;
(d)	a communication made in confidence by or to the counsellor to or by another person who is counselling, or has at any time counselled, a sexual offence complainant.
(3)	For the purposes of subsection (2), a communication can be regarded as being made in confidence even if it is made in the presence or with the assistance of a support person or an interpreter.
(4)	A person counsels another person if —
(a)	the person has undertaken training or study or has experience that is relevant to the process of counselling persons who have suffered harm; and
(b)	the person does any of the following, whether or not for fee or reward —
(i)	listens to and gives verbal or other support or encouragement to the other person;
(ii)	advises, gives therapy to or treats the other person.
(5)	This section extends to a counselling communication —
(a)	whether it was made before or after the commission, or alleged commission, of a sexual offence; and
(b)	whether or not it was made in connection with a sexual offence or an alleged sexual offence or any condition arising from a sexual offence or alleged sexual offence; and
(c)	whether it was made before, on or after the day on which this section comes into operation.
(6)	This section extends to a communication made through an interpreter.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 19A
166.	Protected communications not to be disclosed
(1)	A person cannot disclose or require disclosure of a protected communication in or in connection with any criminal proceeding unless the court gives leave.
(2)	A person discloses a protected communication if the person discloses, or adduces or produces anything that would disclose —
(a)	the protected communication; or
(b)	the contents of a document recording the protected communication.
(3)	To require disclosure of a protected communication includes the following —
(a)	to require (whether by the issue of a subpoena or any other process or procedure) the production of a document recording the protected communication;
(b)	to seek an order of the court that will, if made, result in the disclosure of the protected communication or the production of a document recording the protected communication.
(4)	If a subpoena that purports to require disclosure of a protected communication is issued without the leave of the court, the subpoena is of no effect.
(5)	Evidence that cannot be disclosed or required to be disclosed under this section without the leave of the court is not admissible in a criminal proceeding unless that leave is given.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 19A, 19C and 19K
167.	Application for leave
(1)	An application for leave of the court to disclose or require disclosure of a protected communication —
(a)	must be made to the court in writing; and
(b)	must be accompanied by an affidavit (a supporting affidavit).
(2)	The application must be made to the court at least 28 days before the date set for the start of a trial in the proceeding, unless the applicant satisfies the court that exceptional circumstances justify the application being made at a later date.
(3)	The supporting affidavit must state why the applicant has a legitimate forensic purpose for disclosing or requiring disclosure of the protected communication.
(4)	If an application is duly made and the court considers that the supporting affidavit establishes that, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, the applicant has a legitimate forensic purpose for disclosing or requiring disclosure of the protected communication, the court must fix a day and time for hearing the application.
(5)	The court must hear the application before the start of the trial in the proceeding, if practicable.
(6)	The court must give notice of when the application will be heard, together with copies of the application and the supporting affidavit, to the following —
(a)	the applicant and each other party to the criminal proceeding;
(b)	each protected person identified in the application or the supporting affidavit;
(c)	any other person identified in the application or the supporting affidavit as a person to whom the protected communication was made.
(7)	The notice must also inform each protected person, or person to whom the protected communication was made, who is identified in the application or supporting affidavit, of the person’s right to appear, or be represented by legal counsel, at the hearing.
(8)	If the court does not consider that the supporting affidavit establishes that, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, the applicant has a legitimate forensic purpose for disclosing or requiring disclosure of the protected communication, the court must —
(a)	refuse leave to disclose or require disclosure of the protected communication, without proceeding to a hearing of the application; and
(b)	notify the applicant that leave has been refused.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 19C
168.	Hearing of application
(1)	A hearing of an application for leave to disclose or require the disclosure of a protected communication must be held in the absence of the jury (if any).
(2)	The following persons are entitled to appear, or be represented by legal counsel, at the hearing —
(a)	each protected person identified in the application or the supporting affidavit;
(b)	any other person identified in the application or the supporting affidavit as a person to whom the protected communication was made.
(3)	The court may, if it thinks it necessary to enable it to determine the application, conduct a preliminary examination of the evidence that is the subject of the application.
(4)	For the purpose of a preliminary examination, the court may require a protected person —
(a)	to provide written answers to questions; or
(b)	to appear for oral examination.
(5)	A preliminary examination must be conducted in the absence of the parties.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 19D and 19F
169.	Test to be applied by court
A court may, after hearing an application for leave, give leave to disclose or require disclosure of a protected communication if and only if it is satisfied that —
(a)	the applicant has a legitimate forensic purpose for disclosing or requiring disclosure of the protected communication; and
(b)	other evidence to the same effect as the protected communication or the document recording the protected communication is not available; and
(c)	it is in the public interest to give leave to disclose or require disclosure of the protected communication.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 19E(1) and 19G(1)
170.	Establishing legitimate forensic purpose
(1)	In order to establish a legitimate forensic purpose for disclosing or requiring the disclosure of a protected communication, it is not sufficient for an applicant for leave to assert, without proving, 1 or more of the following —
(a)	that the protected communication discloses a prior inconsistent statement of the sexual offence complainant;
(b)	that the protected communication relates to the credibility of the sexual offence complainant or another witness in the criminal proceeding;
(c)	that the protected communication relates to the reliability of the testimony of the sexual offence complainant merely because the complainant has received or is receiving counselling.
(2)	It is also not sufficient for the applicant to prove 1 or more of the following —
(a)	that the protected communication exists;
(b)	that the protected communication relates to activity that is the subject of the criminal proceeding;
(c)	that the protected communication was made close in time to the activity that is the subject of the criminal proceeding;
(d)	that the protected communication reveals allegations of the commission of a sexual offence against the sexual offence complainant by a person other than the applicant.
(3)	Subsections (1) and (2) do not limit —
(a)	the matters that the court can consider in deciding whether the applicant has a legitimate forensic purpose for disclosing or requiring disclosure of a protected communication; or
(b)	the grounds on which the court can decide that the applicant does not have a legitimate forensic purpose for disclosing or requiring disclosure of a protected communication.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 19E(2) and (3)
171.	Public interest test
For the purpose of determining whether it is in the public interest to give leave to disclose or require disclosure of a protected communication, the court must have regard to the following —
(a)	the extent to which disclosing or requiring the disclosure of the protected communication is necessary to allow the applicant for leave to make a full defence;
(b)	whether the evidence of the protected communication or the contents of the document recording the protected communication will have substantial probative value;
(c)	the likelihood that disclosing or requiring the disclosure of the protected communication will affect the outcome of the proceeding;
(d)	the public interest in ensuring that sexual offence complainants receive effective counselling, and the extent to which failure to preserve the confidentiality of protected communications may dissuade complainants from seeking counselling or diminish the effectiveness of counselling;
(e)	the public interest in ensuring that adequate records are kept of counselling communications;
(f)	the likelihood that disclosing or requiring the disclosure of the protected communication will cause harm to the sexual offence complainant, and the nature and extent of that harm;
(g)	any other matter that the court considers relevant.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 19G(2)
172.	Effect of consent
(1)	This Division does not prevent a protected communication from being disclosed or being required to be disclosed in, or in connection with, any criminal proceeding if the sexual offence complainant by, to or about whom the protected communication is made has consented to the disclosure.
(2)	Consent is not effective for the purposes of this section unless —
(a)	it is given in writing; and
(b)	it is given expressly for the purposes of this Division.
(3)	This section does not apply if the complainant is a child.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 19H
173.	Loss of privilege: misconduct
(1)	This Division does not prevent the production or adducing of evidence of a communication made, or the production of a document prepared, in the furtherance of the commission of a fraud or an offence or the commission of an act that renders a person liable to a civil penalty.
(2)	If the commission of the fraud, offence or act is a fact in issue, the court may find that the communication was made, or the document was prepared, in furtherance of the commission of the fraud, offence or act if there are reasonable grounds for finding that —
(a)	the fraud, offence or act was committed; and
(b)	the communication was made or the document was prepared in furtherance of the commission of the fraud, offence or act.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 19I
174.	Ancillary orders
Without limiting any action that the court may take to limit the possible harm, or extent of the harm, likely to be caused by the disclosure of evidence of, or the contents of a document recording, a protected communication, the court may —
(a)	order that all or part of the evidence be heard or document produced in private; and
(b)	make any order relating to the production, inspection, copying or reproduction of the document that, in its opinion, is necessary to protect the safety and welfare of any protected person and is in the interests of justice; and
(c)	make any order relating to the suppression of publication of all or part of the evidence given before the court that, in its opinion, is necessary to protect the safety and welfare of any protected person and is in the interests of justice; and
(d)	make any order relating to disclosure of information that would tend to identify any protected person that, in its opinion, is necessary to protect the safety and welfare of any protected person and is in the interests of justice.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 19J
175.	Application of other laws
(1)	A provision of this Division does not affect the operation of any rule of law in relation to evidence in a criminal proceeding except to the extent that it expressly or necessarily has that effect.
(2)	Without limiting subsection (1), this Division does not affect the operation of a rule of law so far as it relates to the inspection of a document required to be produced in, or in connection with, a criminal proceeding.
(3)	This Division does not affect the operation of the Children and Community Services Act 2004 sections 124F and 240.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 19L
176.	Application to civil proceedings
If evidence of a protected communication is found to be privileged in a criminal proceeding under this Division, the evidence must not be adduced in a civil proceeding in which substantially the same acts are in issue as the acts that were in issue in relation to the criminal proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (New South Wales) s. 126H
177.	Regulations
The regulations may make provision for the following —
(a)	the forms to be used for an application for leave to disclose or require disclosure of a protected communication and supporting affidavit;
(b)	the manner in which a protected communication must be described in an application for leave or supporting affidavit;
(c)	other matters to be included in an application for leave or supporting affidavit;
(d)	the procedure relating to an application for leave.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 19M
	Division 4 — Journalist privilege
178.	Application of Division
(1)	This Division extends to a proceeding before a person acting judicially.
(2)	This Division does not affect any power a person acting judicially has under any written law to take any action if it is in the interests of justice to do so.
Note for this section:
Section 15 provides that if a provision of this Act expressly extends to a proceeding before a person acting judicially, a reference in the provision to a court includes a reference to a person acting judicially.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 20G and 20H
179.	Terms used
In this Division —
exclusion order has the meaning given in section 181(1);
informant means a person who gives information to a journalist in the normal course of the journalist’s work in the expectation that the information may be published in a news medium;
journalist means a person engaged in the profession or occupation of journalism in connection with the publication of information in a news medium;
journalist privilege means the privilege conferred by section 180(1);
misconduct, by a journalist or an informant, means any of the following conduct by the journalist or informant —
(a)	the commission of a fraud or an offence or the commission of an act that renders a person liable to a civil penalty;
(b)	deceit, dishonesty, inappropriate partiality or a breach of trust;
(c)	acting corruptly, or corruptly failing to act, in any capacity;
(d)	corruptly taking advantage of their position to obtain a benefit for themselves or another person or to cause a detriment to another person;
(e)	conduct that adversely affects, or could adversely affect, directly or indirectly, the honest or impartial performance of the functions of any person in any capacity;
(f)	misusing information or material that the journalist or informant acquired in any capacity, whether the misuse is to obtain a benefit for themselves or another person or to cause a detriment to another person;
(g)	conduct providing reasonable grounds for terminating the employment of the journalist or informant;
(h)	conduct providing reasonable grounds for disciplining the journalist or informant for unsatisfactory professional conduct or professional misconduct, or for the breach of a professional standard that applies to the profession of the journalist or informant, whether or not the journalist or informant is a member of the body that prescribed the standard;
news medium means any medium for the dissemination to the public or a section of the public of news and observations on news.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 20G and 20K
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 126J
180.	Journalist privilege relating to identity of informant
(1)	If a journalist has promised an informant not to disclose the informant’s identity, neither the journalist nor the journalist’s employer is compellable to answer any question or produce any document that would disclose the identity of the informant or enable that identity to be ascertained.
(2)	This section does not apply if the court, on application of a party, makes an exclusion order in relation to the evidence.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 126K
181.	Exclusion of journalist privilege: public interest test
(1)	A court may make an order (an exclusion order) that journalist privilege does not apply to any evidence.
(2)	A court may make an exclusion order if it is satisfied that, having regard to the issues to be determined in that proceeding, the public interest in the disclosure of evidence of the identity of the informant (identifying evidence) outweighs —
(a)	any likely adverse effect of the disclosure on the informant or any other person; and
(b)	the public interest in the communication of facts and opinion to the public by the news media and, accordingly, in the ability of the news media to access sources of facts.
(3)	Without limiting the matters to which the court may have regard for the purposes of this section, it must have regard to the following —
(a)	the probative value of the identifying evidence in the proceeding;
(b)	the importance of the identifying evidence in the proceeding;
(c)	the nature and gravity of the relevant offence, cause of action or defence and the nature of the subject matter of the proceeding;
(d)	the availability of any other evidence concerning the matters to which the identifying evidence relates;
(e)	the likely effect of giving the identifying evidence, including the likelihood of harm, and the nature and extent of harm that would be caused to the informant or any other person;
(f)	the means (including any ancillary orders that may be made under section 184) available to the court to limit the harm or extent of the harm that is likely to be caused if the identifying evidence is given;
(g)	the likely effect of giving the identifying evidence in relation to —
(i)	a prosecution that has commenced but has not been finalised; or
(ii)	an investigation, of which the court is aware, into whether or not an offence has been committed;
(h)	whether the substance of the identifying evidence has already been disclosed by the informant or any other person;
(i)	the risk to national security or to the security of the State;
(j)	whether or not there was misconduct by the informant or the journalist in relation to obtaining, using, giving or receiving information.
(4)	The court may make the exclusion order subject to any conditions the court thinks fit.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 20J
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 126K
182.	Special consideration: misconduct
(1)	The court may make, but is not required to make, an exclusion order if the court finds that there was misconduct by an informant or a journalist in relation to obtaining, using, giving or receiving information.
(2)	The court must have regard to the following when deciding whether or not to make an exclusion order in a case involving misconduct —
(a)	that generally an exclusion order should be made in the circumstances referred to in subsection (3);
(b)	the public interest in making or refusing to make the order.
(3)	The following are the circumstances in which generally an exclusion order should be made —
(a)	the misconduct involved the commission of an offence under The Criminal Code section 81 or a breach of a public sector standard, code of ethics or code of conduct, as those terms are defined in the Public Sector Management Act 1994 section 3(1), and the offence or breach involved the disclosure of information that —
(i)	was public interest information as defined in the Public Interest Disclosure Act 2003 section 3(1); and
(ii)	could have been, but was not, disclosed in accordance with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 2003;
(b)	the information given to the journalist could have been provided, in a way that did not constitute misconduct, to another person to deal with the concern;
(c)	the information given to the journalist could have been obtained by the journalist under the Freedom of Information Act 1992 or by other lawful means;
(d)	the misconduct involved a breach of privacy that was not warranted in the circumstances, having regard to the value to be attached to —
(i)	the privacy of information regarding private citizens generally; or
(ii)	the privacy of information regarding matters that may be commercial in confidence; or
(iii)	the principle of Cabinet confidentiality; or
(iv)	the principle of public interest immunity;
(e)	the communication made to the journalist, if published, would give rise to a risk to national security or to the security of the State.
(4)	If misconduct by a journalist or an informant is a fact in issue, the court may find that there was misconduct by the journalist or informant in relation to obtaining, using, giving or receiving information if there are reasonable grounds for making that finding.
(5)	This section does not limit —
(a)	the circumstances in which the court may make an exclusion order; or
(b)	the matters to which the court may have regard in deciding whether to make an exclusion order.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 20K
183.	Application of journalist privilege to preliminary proceedings
(1)	In this section —
disclosure requirement —
(a)	means a court process or court order that requires the disclosure of information or a document; and
(b)	includes the following —
(i)	a summons or subpoena to produce documents or give evidence;
(ii)	pre-trial discovery;
(iii)	non-party discovery;
(iv)	interrogatories;
(v)	a notice to produce;
(vi)	a request to produce a document under Part 8 Division 4.
(2)	If, in response to a disclosure requirement, a person claims that the person is not compellable to answer a question or produce a document because of journalist privilege, a party who seeks disclosure of information or a document under the disclosure requirement may apply to the court for an exclusion order.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 131A
184.	Ancillary orders
Without limiting any action that the court may take to limit the possible harm, or extent of the harm, likely to be caused by the disclosure of evidence identifying an informant, the court may —
(a)	order that all or part of the evidence be heard in private; and
(b)	make any order relating to the suppression of publication of all or part of the evidence given before the court that, in its opinion, is necessary to protect the safety and welfare of the informant and is in the interests of justice.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 20M
	Division 5 — Self-incrimination
185.	Terms used
In this Division —
disclosure certificate has the meaning given in section 188(7);
disclosure order —
(a)	means an order made by a court in a civil proceeding that requires a person to disclose information as part of, or in connection with, a freezing or search order made under the rules of the Supreme Court; but
(b)	does not include an order made by a court under the Criminal Property Confiscation Act 2000 or the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (Commonwealth);
evidence certificate has the meaning given in section 186(7);
incriminate, a person, means tend to prove that the person —
(a)	has committed an offence against or arising under an Australian law or a law of a foreign country; or
(b)	is liable to a civil penalty.
186.	Privilege in respect of self-incrimination in other proceedings
(1)	A witness may object to giving particular evidence, or evidence on a particular matter, on the ground that the evidence may incriminate the witness.
(2)	A witness is taken to have objected to giving evidence under this section if the witness expresses an unwillingness to give evidence on the ground that the evidence might incriminate the witness.
(3)	A witness may object to giving evidence under this section whether or not the witness is compellable to give that evidence.
(4)	The court must determine whether or not there are reasonable grounds for the objection.
(5)	If the court determines that there are reasonable grounds for the objection, the court —
(a)	must not require the witness to give the evidence, except under subsection (6); and
(b)	must inform the witness —
(i)	that the witness is not required to give the evidence unless the court requires it under subsection (6); and
(ii)	that the court will give the witness an evidence certificate if the witness gives the evidence (either with or without being required to do so); and
(iii)	of the effect of the evidence certificate.
(6)	The court may require the witness to give the evidence if the court is satisfied that —
(a)	the evidence does not tend to prove that the witness has committed an offence against or arising under, or is liable to a civil penalty under, a law of a foreign country; and
(b)	the interests of justice require that the witness give the evidence.
(7)	The court must cause a witness who objects to giving evidence under this section to be given a certificate (an evidence certificate) in respect of evidence if —
(a)	the court determines that there are reasonable grounds for the objection and the witness gives the evidence (whether or not after being required to do so under subsection (6)); or
(b)	the court overrules the objection but, after the evidence has been given, finds that there were reasonable grounds for the objection.
(8)	In a criminal proceeding, this section does not apply in relation to the giving of evidence by an accused, being evidence that the accused —
(a)	did an act the doing of which is a fact in issue; or
(b)	had a state of mind the existence of which is a fact in issue.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 128
187.	Effect of evidence certificate
(1)	In any proceeding in a court or before a person acting judicially (whether or not a court), the following evidence cannot be used against a person —
(a)	evidence given by the person in respect of which an evidence certificate has been given;
(b)	evidence of any information, document or thing obtained as a direct or indirect consequence of the person having given evidence in respect of which an evidence certificate has been given.
(2)	Subsection (1) —
(a)	does not apply to a criminal proceeding in respect of the falsity of the evidence; and
(b)	has effect despite any challenge, review, quashing or calling into question on any ground of the decision to give, or the validity of, the certificate concerned.
(3)	If an accused in a criminal proceeding is given an evidence certificate, subsection (1) does not apply in a proceeding that is a retrial of the accused for the same offence or a trial of the accused for an offence arising out of the same facts that gave rise to that offence.
(4)	If a person has been given a certificate under a corresponding provision in respect of evidence given in a proceeding to which the corresponding provision applies, the certificate has the same effect as an evidence certificate given under section 186.
(5)	Each of the following is a corresponding provision for the purposes of subsection (4) —
(a)	a provision of a law of a State or Territory that is substantially to the same effect as section 186;
(b)	a provision of a law of a State or Territory prescribed by the regulations to be a corresponding provision for the purposes of subsection (4).
Note for this section:
Subsections (2)(b) and (3) relate to the decision of the High Court of Australia in Cornwell v The Queen (2007) 231 CLR 260.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 128
188.	Privilege in respect of self-incrimination: disclosure orders
(1)	A person to whom a disclosure order is directed (a relevant person) may object to complying with the disclosure order on the ground that some or all of the information required to be disclosed may incriminate the person.
(2)	A relevant person who wishes to object to the disclosure of information under this section must —
(a)	disclose any information required to be disclosed to which no objection is made; and
(b)	prepare an affidavit (a privilege affidavit) containing the information required to be disclosed to which the objection is made and deliver it to the court in a sealed envelope; and
(c)	file and serve on each other party a separate affidavit setting out the basis of the objection.
(3)	The sealed envelope containing the privilege affidavit must not be opened except as directed by the court.
(4)	The court must determine whether or not there are reasonable grounds for the objection.
(5)	If the court finds that there are reasonable grounds for the objection, the court must not require the information contained in the privilege affidavit to be disclosed and must return it to the relevant person.
(6)	Despite subsection (5), the court may make an order requiring the whole or any part of the privilege affidavit to be filed and served on the parties, but only if the court is satisfied that —
(a)	the information to be disclosed does not tend to prove that the relevant person has committed an offence against or arising under, or is liable to a civil penalty under, a law of a foreign country; and
(b)	the interests of justice require the information to be disclosed.
(7)	The court must cause the relevant person to be given a certificate (a disclosure certificate) in respect of any information disclosed in the privilege affidavit (including by order under subsection (6)) that may tend to prove that the relevant person has committed an offence against or arising under, or is liable to a civil penalty under, an Australian law.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 128A
189.	Effect of disclosure certificate
(1)	In any proceeding in a court or before a person acting judicially (whether or not a court), the following evidence cannot be used against a person —
(a)	evidence of information disclosed by the person in respect of which a disclosure certificate has been given;
(b)	evidence of any information, document or thing obtained as a direct or indirect consequence of the person having disclosed that information.
(2)	Subsection (1) —
(a)	does not apply to a criminal proceeding in respect of the falsity of the evidence; and
(b)	has effect despite any challenge, review, quashing or calling into question on any ground of the decision to give, or the validity of, the certificate concerned.
(3)	Subsection (1) does not prevent the use against the person of any information disclosed by a document that —
(a)	is an annexure or exhibit to a privilege affidavit prepared by the person in response to a disclosure order; and
(b)	was in existence before the order was made.
(4)	If a person has been given a certificate under a corresponding provision in respect of information of a kind referred to in subsection (1), the certificate has the same effect as a disclosure certificate given under section 188.
(5)	Each of the following is a corresponding provision for the purposes of subsection (4) —
(a)	a provision of a law of a State or Territory that is substantially to the same effect as section 188;
(b)	a provision of a law of a State or Territory prescribed by the regulations to be a corresponding provision for the purposes of subsection (4).
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 128A
190.	Court may restrict publication of evidence
(1)	A court that causes a person to be given an evidence certificate or a disclosure certificate in respect of any evidence may make an order prohibiting the publication of a report of or relating to the evidence, or any part of the evidence, or of the giving of the certificate, if the court considers that publication of the report, or of the giving of the certificate, may tend to prejudice any prosecution that has been or may be brought against the person.
(2)	A person must not publish information in contravention of an order under subsection (1).
Penalty for this subsection: a fine of $6 000.
(3)	A person who contravenes subsection (1) —
(a)	is taken to be in contempt of the court that gave the evidence certificate or disclosure certificate; and
(b)	is punishable accordingly.
(4)	If a person’s act constitutes both an offence under subsection (2) and a contempt of court under subsection (3), the person is not liable to be punished twice.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 11A
191.	Self-incrimination: witnesses in public revenue proceedings
(1)	A person who is required by a court under section 29 to give evidence in a proceeding to which that section applies may object to giving evidence, or evidence on a particular matter, on the ground that the evidence may incriminate the person.
(2)	If the court determines there are no reasonable grounds for the objection, the court may require the person to give the evidence.
(3)	If the court determines there are reasonable grounds for the objection, the court may require the person to give the evidence if the court is satisfied that —
(a)	the evidence does not tend to prove that the person has committed an offence against or arising under, or is liable to a civil penalty under, a law of the Commonwealth, another State, a Territory or a foreign country; and
(b)	it is in the public interest that the person give the evidence.
(4)	The court must, on application, cause the person to be given a certificate (an immunity certificate) in respect of any matter in relation to which the person gives evidence after being required to do so by the court if, in the opinion of the court, the evidence the person was required to give incriminates the person.
(5)	If an immunity certificate is given to the person —
(a)	the person is not liable for any offence against or arising under, or a civil penalty under, a law of this State in respect of a matter specified in the immunity certificate; and
(b)	a prosecution for an offence against or arising under, or a proceeding for a civil penalty under, a law of this State cannot be instituted or continued against the person for a matter specified in the immunity certificate.
(6)	An immunity certificate does not extend —
(a)	to an act or omission that occurs after the evidence is given in the proceeding in which the immunity certificate is given; or
(b)	to a criminal proceeding in respect of the falsity of evidence given in the proceeding in which the immunity certificate is given.
(7)	Sections 186 and 187 do not apply to a person who is required by a court to give evidence under section 29.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 13
	Division 6 — Evidence excluded in the public interest
192.	Exclusion of evidence of reasons for judicial and other decisions
(1)	A judge in an Australian or overseas proceeding, or an arbitrator in respect of a dispute submitted to arbitration (whether to 1 or more arbitrators), and any other person to whom this subsection extends, must not give evidence of the following —
(a)	the reasons for the decision made by the judge or arbitrator in the proceeding or arbitration;
(b)	the deliberations of the judge or arbitrator in relation to that decision.
(2)	Subsection (1) extends to a person who was, in relation to a proceeding or arbitration, under the direction or control of the judge or arbitrator.
(3)	Evidence that a person must not give under subsection (1) or (2) also must not be given by tendering as evidence any document prepared by the person.
(4)	This section does not prevent the admission or use, in a proceeding, of published reasons for a decision.
(5)	In a proceeding, evidence of the reasons for a decision made by a member of a jury in another Australian or overseas proceeding, or of the deliberations of a member of a jury in relation to the decision, must not be given by any of the members of that jury.
(6)	This section does not apply in a proceeding that is —
(a)	a prosecution for 1 or more of the following offences —
(i)	an offence against The Criminal Code Chapter XVI or XVII;
(ii)	an offence connected with an offence mentioned in subparagraph (i), including an offence of attempting to commit, conspiring with another person to commit, inciting another person to commit or attempting to procure another person to commit an offence mentioned in subparagraph (i);
or
(b)	in respect of a contempt of court; or
(c)	by way of appeal from, or judicial review of, a judgment, decree, order or sentence of a court; or
(d)	by way of review of an arbitral award; or
(e)	a civil proceeding in respect of an act of a judicial officer or arbitrator that was, and that was known at the time by the judicial officer or arbitrator to be, outside the scope of the matters in relation to which the judicial officer or arbitrator had authority to act.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 129
193.	Exclusion of evidence of matters of state
(1)	If the public interest in admitting into evidence information or a document that relates to matters of state is outweighed by the public interest in preserving secrecy or confidentiality in relation to the information or document, the court may direct that the information or document not be adduced as evidence.
(2)	The court may give the direction either on its own initiative or on the application of any person (whether or not the person is a party).
(3)	In deciding whether to give the direction, the court may inform itself in any way it thinks fit.
(4)	Without limiting the circumstances in which information or a document may be taken for the purposes of subsection (1) to relate to matters of state, the information or document is taken for the purposes of that subsection to relate to matters of state if adducing it as evidence would —
(a)	prejudice the security, defence or international relations of Australia; or
(b)	damage relations between the Commonwealth and a State or a Territory or between States, Territories or a State and Territory; or
(c)	prejudice the prevention, investigation or prosecution of an offence; or
(d)	prejudice the prevention or investigation of, or the conduct of proceedings for recovery of civil penalties brought with respect to, other contraventions of the law; or
(e)	disclose, or enable a person to ascertain, the existence or identity of a confidential source of information relating to the enforcement or administration of a law of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory; or
(f)	prejudice the proper functioning of the government of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory.
(5)	Without limiting the matters that the court may take into account for the purposes of subsection (1), the court must take into account the following matters —
(a)	the importance of the information or the document in the proceeding;
(b)	if the proceeding is a criminal proceeding — whether the party seeking to adduce evidence of the information or document is an accused or the prosecutor;
(c)	the nature of the offence, cause of action or defence to which the information or document relates, and the nature of the subject matter of the proceeding;
(d)	the likely effect of adducing evidence of the information or document, and the means available to limit its publication;
(e)	whether the substance of the information or document has already been published;
(f)	if the proceeding is a criminal proceeding and the party seeking to adduce evidence of the information or document is an accused — whether the direction is to be made subject to the condition that the prosecution be stayed.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 130
194.	Exclusion of evidence of settlement negotiations
(1)	In this section —
dispute means a dispute of a kind in respect of which relief may be given in an Australian or overseas proceeding;
power means a power conferred by or under an Australian law.
(2)	Evidence must not be adduced of —
(a)	a communication that is made between persons in dispute, or between 1 or more persons in dispute and a third party, in connection with an attempt to negotiate a settlement of the dispute; or
(b)	a document (whether delivered or not) that has been prepared in connection with an attempt to negotiate a settlement of a dispute.
(3)	Subsection (2) does not apply if —
(a)	the persons in dispute consent to the evidence being adduced in the proceeding concerned or, if any of those persons has tendered the communication or document in evidence in another Australian or overseas proceeding, all the other persons consent; or
(b)	the substance of the evidence has been disclosed with the express or implied consent of all the persons in dispute; or
(c)	the substance of the evidence has been partly disclosed with the express or implied consent of the persons in dispute, and full disclosure of the evidence is reasonably necessary to enable a proper understanding of the other evidence that has already been adduced; or
(d)	the communication or document included a statement to the effect that it was not to be treated as confidential; or
(e)	the evidence tends to contradict or to qualify evidence that has already been admitted about the course of an attempt to settle the dispute; or
(f)	the proceeding in which it is sought to adduce the evidence is a proceeding to enforce an agreement between the persons in dispute to settle the dispute, or a proceeding in which the making of the agreement is in issue; or
(g)	evidence that has been adduced in the proceeding, or an inference from evidence that has been adduced in the proceeding, is likely to mislead the court unless evidence of the communication or document is adduced to contradict or to qualify that evidence; or
(h)	the communication or document is relevant to determining liability for costs; or
(i)	making the communication, or preparing the document, affects a right of a person; or
(j)	the communication was made, or the document was prepared, in furtherance of the commission of a fraud or an offence or the commission of an act that renders a person liable to a civil penalty; or
(k)	a person in dispute, or an employee or agent of a person in dispute, knew or ought reasonably to have known that the communication was made, or the document was prepared, in furtherance of a deliberate abuse of a power.
(4)	If the commission of a fraud, offence or act referred to in subsection (3)(j) is a fact in issue, a court may find that a communication was made or a document was prepared in furtherance of the commission of a fraud, offence or act if there are reasonable grounds for finding that —
(a)	the fraud, offence or act was committed; and
(b)	the communication was made or document was prepared in furtherance of the commission of the fraud, offence or act.
(5)	If an abuse of power referred to in subsection (3)(k) is a fact in issue, the court may find that a communication was made or a document was prepared in furtherance of an abuse of power if there are reasonable grounds for that finding.
(6)	This section does not apply to a communication made, or a document prepared, in connection with an attempt to negotiate the settlement of a criminal proceeding or an anticipated criminal proceeding.
(7)	For the purposes of this section —
(a)	a communication made by an employee or agent of a person is taken to have been made by the person; and
(b)	a consent given by an employee or agent of a person is taken to have been given by the person if the employee or agent is authorised to consent.
(8)	A reference in this section to doing an act includes a reference to failing to do that act.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 131
	Division 7 — General
195.	Court to inform of rights to make applications and objections
If it appears to the court that a witness or a party may have grounds for making an application or objection under a provision of this Part, the court must satisfy itself (if there is a jury, in the absence of the jury) that the witness or party is aware of the effect of that provision.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 132
196.	Court may inspect documents
If a question arises under this Part in relation to a document, the court may order that the document be produced to it and may inspect the document for the purpose of determining the question.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 133
197.	Inadmissibility of evidence that must not be adduced or given
Evidence that, because of this Part, must not be adduced or given in a proceeding is not admissible in the proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 134
198.	Derogation of privilege in civil proceedings
(1)	Rules of court relating to the use of expert evidence in a civil proceeding may provide for the derogation of any privilege under this Act that would otherwise attach to documents prepared —
(a)	for the purpose of pending or contemplated proceedings; or
(b)	in connection with the obtaining or giving of legal advice.
(2)	A privilege under this Act does not apply to the extent provided for by rules of court referred to in subsection (1).
(3)	Without limiting the generality of subsection (1) or any other power to make rules of court, rules of court relating to the use of expert evidence in a civil proceeding may make provision for —
(a)	the disclosure, by providing copies of reports or otherwise, of the nature and substance of expert evidence to be given in a civil proceeding; and
(b)	the exclusion of expert evidence because of non-compliance with the rules of court relating to disclosure of expert evidence or non-compliance with any order for the disclosure of the nature and substance of expert evidence; and
(c)	the conferral of a discretion on the court, tribunal or other person or body dealing with the proceeding in relation to the matters referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b).
(4)	This section extends to the following proceedings —
(a)	an arbitration;
(b)	a civil proceeding before a WA tribunal.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 32A
199.	No privilege against self-incrimination for bodies corporate
(1)	This section applies if, under a law of the State or in a proceeding to which this Act applies, a body corporate is required to —
(a)	answer a question or give information; or
(b)	produce a document or any other thing; or
(c)	do any other act whatever.
(2)	The body corporate is not entitled to refuse or fail to comply with the requirement on the ground that answering the question, giving the information, producing the document or other thing or doing that other act, as the case may be, might tend to incriminate the body or make the body liable to a penalty.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 187
200.	No confessional privilege in proceedings relating to child sexual offences or sexual abuse
(1)	In this section —
religious confession means a confession made by a person to a minister of religion acting in the minister’s capacity as a minister of religion and in accordance with the tenets of the minister’s faith or religion.
(2)	A person is not entitled to refuse or fail to give evidence on the ground that giving the evidence would require the person to disclose that a religious confession was made to the person, the contents of a religious confession or information gained in connection with a religious confession in the following proceedings —
(a)	a criminal proceeding for a sexual offence if the complainant was a child at the time of the offence;
(b)	a civil proceeding in which it is alleged a person is the victim of sexual abuse if the person was a child at the time of the sexual abuse.
(3)	This section does not affect the operation of any privilege conferred by this Part.
	Part 5 — Exclusion of evidence
201.	General discretion to exclude evidence
A court may refuse to admit evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger that the evidence might —
(a)	be unfairly prejudicial to a party; or
(b)	be misleading or confusing; or
(c)	cause or result in undue waste of time.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 135
202.	General discretion to limit use of evidence
A court may limit the use to be made of evidence if there is a danger that a particular use of the evidence might —
(a)	be unfairly prejudicial to a party; or
(b)	be misleading or confusing.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 136
203.	Exclusion of prejudicial evidence in criminal proceeding
In a criminal proceeding, the court must refuse to admit evidence adduced by the prosecutor if its probative value is outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice to the accused.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 137
204.	Exclusion of improperly or illegally obtained evidence
(1)	The following evidence must not be admitted unless the desirability of admitting the evidence outweighs the undesirability of admitting evidence that has been obtained in the way in which the evidence was obtained —
(a)	evidence obtained improperly or in contravention of an Australian law;
(b)	evidence obtained in consequence of an impropriety or of a contravention of an Australian law.
(2)	Without limiting subsection (1), evidence of an admission that was made during or in consequence of questioning, and evidence obtained in consequence of the admission, are taken to have been obtained improperly if the person conducting the questioning —
(a)	did, or omitted to do, an act in the course of the questioning even though the person knew or ought reasonably to have known that the act or omission was likely to impair substantially the ability of the person being questioned to respond rationally to the questioning; or
(b)	made a false statement in the course of the questioning even though the person knew or ought reasonably to have known that the statement was false and that making the false statement was likely to cause the person who was being questioned to make an admission.
(3)	Without limiting the matters that the court may take into account under subsection (1), it must take into account the following —
(a)	the probative value of the evidence;
(b)	the importance of the evidence in the proceeding;
(c)	the nature of the relevant offence, cause of action or defence and the nature of the subject matter of the proceeding;
(d)	the gravity of the impropriety or contravention;
(e)	whether the impropriety or contravention was deliberate or careless;
(f)	whether the impropriety or contravention was contrary to or inconsistent with a right of a person recognised by the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights;
(g)	whether any other proceeding (whether or not in a court) has been or is likely to be taken in relation to the impropriety or contravention;
(h)	the difficulty (if any) of obtaining the evidence without impropriety or contravention of an Australian law.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 138
205.	Cautioning of persons
(1)	For the purposes of section 204(1)(a), evidence of a statement made or an act done by a person during questioning is taken to have been obtained improperly if —
(a)	the person was under arrest for an offence at the time; and
(b)	the questioning was conducted by an investigating official who was at the time empowered, because of the office that the official held, to arrest the person; and
(c)	before starting the questioning the investigating official did not caution the person that the person does not have to say or do anything but that anything the person does say or do may be used in evidence.
(2)	For the purposes of section 204(1)(a), evidence of a statement made or an act done by a person during questioning is taken to have been obtained improperly if —
(a)	the questioning was conducted by an investigating official who did not have the power to arrest the person; and
(b)	the statement was made, or the act was done, after the investigating official formed a belief that there was sufficient evidence to establish that the person has committed an offence; and
(c)	the investigating official did not, before the statement was made or the act was done, caution the person that the person does not have to say or do anything but that anything the person does say or do may be used in evidence.
(3)	The caution must be given in, or translated into, a language in which the person is able to communicate with reasonable fluency, but need not be given in writing unless the person cannot hear adequately.
(4)	Subsections (1), (2) and (3) do not apply so far as any Australian law requires the person to answer questions put by, or do things required by, the investigating official.
(5)	A reference in subsection (1) to a person who is under arrest includes a reference to a person who is in the company of an investigating official for the purpose of being questioned, if —
(a)	the official believes that there is sufficient evidence to establish that the person has committed an offence that is to be the subject of the questioning; or
(b)	the official would not allow the person to leave if the person wished to do so; or
(c)	the official has given the person reasonable grounds for believing that the person would not be allowed to leave if the person wished to do so.
(6)	A person is not treated as being under arrest only because of subsection (5) if —
(a)	the official is performing functions in relation to persons or goods entering or leaving Australia and the official does not believe the person has committed an offence against a law of the Commonwealth; or
(b)	the official is exercising a power under an Australian law to detain and search the person or to require the person to provide information or to answer questions.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 139
206.	Exclusion of certain evidence relating to complainant or witness
(1)	The following evidence must not be adduced by or on behalf of an accused in a criminal proceeding for a sexual offence —
(a)	evidence relating to the sexual reputation of the complainant;
(b)	evidence relating to the disposition of the complainant in sexual matters.
(2)	In a criminal proceeding for a sexual offence, evidence relating to the sexual experiences of the complainant, of any kind, at any time and with any person, other than the acts or omissions that constitute the offence, must not be adduced by or on behalf of an accused except with the leave of the court.
(3)	The following evidence must not be adduced in a civil proceeding in which it is alleged that a witness is the victim of sexual abuse or sexual harassment —
(a)	evidence relating to the sexual reputation of the witness;
(b)	evidence relating to the disposition of the witness in sexual matters.
(4)	In a civil proceeding in which it is alleged that a witness is the victim of sexual abuse or sexual harassment, evidence relating to the sexual experiences of the witness, of any kind, at any time and with any person, other than the acts or omissions that are the subject of the alleged sexual abuse or sexual harassment, must not be adduced except with the leave of the court.
(5)	An application for leave of the court mentioned in subsection (2) or (4) must be heard in the absence of the jury (if any).
(6)	The court must not grant leave under subsection (2) or (4) unless satisfied that —
(a)	the evidence has substantial probative value; and
(b)	the probative value of the evidence outweighs any distress, humiliation or embarrassment that may be caused to the complainant or witness as a result of the admission of the evidence.
(7)	This section does not affect the operation of section 50.
(8)	Evidence that, because of this section, must not be adduced or given in a proceeding is not admissible in the proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 36A, 36B, 36BA and 36BC
	Part 6 — Special arrangements for taking evidence
	Division 1 — Use of video links and audio links by courts and recognised courts
207.	Terms used
In this Division —
corresponding legislation means any provisions of an Act of another State or a Territory that substantially correspond with this Division;
participating jurisdiction means —
(a)	another State or a Territory in which corresponding legislation is in force; or
(b)	any jurisdiction outside the State prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this definition to be a participating jurisdiction;
recognised court means a court or tribunal of a participating jurisdiction —
(a)	that is authorised by corresponding legislation to direct that evidence be taken or a submission be made by video link or audio link from this State; or
(b)	that is prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this definition to be a recognised court.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 120
208.	Court may take evidence by video link or audio link
(1)	A court may, by order, direct that evidence be taken or a submission be received by video link or audio link from a person at a place, whether in or outside this State, that is outside the courtroom or other place where the court is sitting.
(2)	The order may be made —
(a)	on the application of a party to the proceeding; or
(b)	on the court’s own initiative.
(3)	The court must not make the order unless satisfied that the video link or audio link is available or can reasonably be made available.
(4)	The court must not make the order if satisfied that the direction is not in the interests of justice.
(5)	For the purposes of taking evidence or receiving a submission by video link or audio link from a place in this State in accordance with the direction, the place is taken to be part of the court.
(6)	For the purposes of taking evidence or receiving a submission by video link or audio link from a place in a participating jurisdiction, the court may exercise in that place any of its powers that the court is permitted, under the law of the jurisdiction, to exercise in that place.
(7)	This section extends to a proceeding before a WA tribunal.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 121
209.	Counsel entitled to practise
(1)	A person who is entitled to practise as the equivalent of legal counsel in a participating jurisdiction is entitled to practise as a legal practitioner in relation to —
(a)	the examination, cross-examination or re-examination of a witness in the participating jurisdiction whose evidence is being given by video link or audio link before a court; and
(b)	the making of a submission by video link or audio link from the participating jurisdiction in a proceeding before a court.
(2)	This section extends to a proceeding before a WA tribunal.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 122
210.	Recognised court may take evidence or receive submission in this State
(1)	A recognised court may, for the purposes of a proceeding before it, take evidence or receive a submission by video link or audio link from a person in this State.
(2)	For the purposes of the proceeding the recognised court may exercise in this State any of its powers in relation to the taking of evidence or the receipt of a submission except its powers —
(a)	to punish for contempt; and
(b)	to enforce or execute its orders or process.
(3)	The laws of the participating jurisdiction (including rules of court) that apply to the proceeding in that jurisdiction also apply, by force of this subsection, to the practice and procedure of the recognised court in taking evidence or receiving a submission by video link or audio link from a person in this State.
(4)	For the purposes of the court exercising its powers under subsection (2), the place in this State where the evidence is given or the submission is made is taken to be part of the court.
(5)	Without limiting subsection (2), the recognised court may, by order —
(a)	direct that the proceeding, or a part of the proceeding, be conducted in private; or
(b)	require a person to leave a place in this State where the giving of evidence or the making of a submission is taking place or is going to take place; or
(c)	prohibit or restrict the publication of evidence given in the proceeding or of the name of a party to, or a witness in, the proceeding.
(6)	An order made by a recognised court under subsection (5) may be enforced by the Supreme Court as if it were an order of the Supreme Court.
(7)	Without limiting subsection (6), a person who contravenes the order —
(a)	is taken to be in contempt of the Supreme Court; and
(b)	is punishable accordingly.
(8)	Subsection (7) does not apply if the person establishes that the contravention should be excused.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 123, 124, 125 and 126
211.	Privileges, protection and immunity of participants in proceeding in recognised court
(1)	A judge in a proceeding before a recognised court has, in connection with evidence being taken or a submission being received by video link or audio link from a person in this State, the same privileges, protection and immunity as a judge of the Supreme Court.
(2)	A person appearing as legal counsel in a proceeding before a recognised court (including a person entitled to practise under section 209(1)) has, in connection with evidence being taken or a submission being received by video link or audio link from a person in this State, the same protection and immunity as a legal practitioner has in appearing for a party in a proceeding in the Supreme Court.
(3)	A person appearing as a witness in a proceeding before a recognised court by video link or audio link from this State has the same protection as a witness in a proceeding in the Supreme Court.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 127
212.	Recognised court may administer oath in this State
(1)	A recognised court may, for the purpose of obtaining by video link or audio link the testimony of a person in this State in a proceeding, administer an oath or affirmation in accordance with the practice and procedure of the recognised court.
(2)	Evidence given by a person on oath or affirmation is, for the purposes of The Criminal Code, testimony given in a judicial proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 128
213.	Assistance to recognised court
An officer of a court or WA tribunal may, at the request of a recognised court —
(a)	attend at the place in the State where evidence is to be or is being given, or submissions are to be or are being made, in a proceeding before the recognised court; and
(b)	take action as the recognised court directs to facilitate the proceeding; and
(c)	assist with the administering by the recognised court of an oath or affirmation.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 129
214.	Contempt of recognised court
(1)	A person must not, while evidence is being given or a submission is being made in this State by video link or audio link in a proceeding before a recognised court —
(a)	threaten, intimidate or insult any of the following —
(i)	a judge in the proceeding;
(ii)	a master, registrar, deputy registrar or other officer of that court who is taking part in or assisting in the proceeding;
(iii)	a person appearing in the proceeding as legal counsel (including a person entitled to practise under section 209(1));
(iv)	a witness in the proceeding;
(v)	a juror in the proceeding;
or
(b)	interrupt or obstruct the proceeding; or
(c)	without lawful excuse disobey an order or direction of the court.
(2)	A person who contravenes subsection (1) —
(a)	is taken to be in contempt of the Supreme Court; and
(b)	is punishable accordingly.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 130
215.	Operation of other laws
(1)	This Division does not affect the operation of any other law of the State that makes provision for the taking of evidence or the making of a submission —
(a)	in the State for the purpose of a proceeding in the State; or
(b)	outside the State for the purpose of a proceeding in the State; or
(c)	in the State for the purpose of a proceeding outside the State.
(2)	This Division does not affect the operation of Part 7.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 132
	Division 2 — Examination of witnesses outside the State
216.	Terms used
(1)	In this Division —
examination includes any proceeding for the taking of evidence of a person conducted by a judicial authority of a foreign country in relation to a request issued as a result of an order made by a court under this Act;
extra-territorial examination order has the meaning given in section 217(1);
inferior court means a court, except when exercising federal jurisdiction, not being a superior court;
judicial authority, in relation to a place outside the State, means a court or person prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this definition as an appropriate judicial authority for that place.
(2)	A reference in this Division to a place outside the State is a reference to a place outside the State whether within or outside Australia.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 109
217.	Court may make extra-territorial examination order
(1)	A court may make any of the following orders (each an extra-territorial examination order) in relation to any person outside the State —
(a)	an order for the examination of the person on oath or affirmation at any place outside the State before a judge of the court, an officer of the court or any other person the court appoints;
(b)	an order for the issue of a commission for the examination of the person on oath or affirmation at any place outside the State;
(c)	an order for the issue of a request to a judicial authority of a place outside the State to take, or to cause to be taken, the evidence of the person.
(2)	An extra-territorial examination order may be made —
(a)	only by a superior court; and
(b)	only if it appears to the court that it is in the interests of justice to do so.
(3)	A superior court may make an extra-territorial examination order for the purpose of any proceeding before the superior court, on application by a party to the proceeding.
(4)	The Supreme Court may also make an extra-territorial examination order for the purpose of any proceeding before an inferior court, on application by a party to the proceeding.
(5)	In determining whether it is in the interests of justice to make an extra-territorial examination order, the matters to which the court must have regard include the following —
(a)	whether the person is willing or able to come to the State to give evidence in the proceeding;
(b)	whether the person will be able to give evidence material to any fact in issue in the proceeding;
(c)	whether, having regard to the interests of the parties to the proceeding, justice will be better served by granting or refusing the order.
(6)	If a court makes an extra-territorial examination order of the kind referred to in subsection (1)(a) or (b), the court may, at the time of the making of the order or at a subsequent time, give directions relating to the procedure to be followed in and in relation to the examination, including directions as to the time, place and manner of the examination, and to any other matter that the court thinks relevant.
(7)	If a court makes an extra-territorial examination order of the kind referred to in subsection (1)(c), the court may include in the order a request as to any matter relating to the taking of evidence from the person concerned, including any of the following matters —
(a)	the examination, cross-examination or re-examination of the person, whether the evidence of the person is given orally, on affidavit or otherwise;
(b)	the attendance of the legal counsel of each party to the proceeding and the participation of those persons in the examination in appropriate circumstances;
(c)	any matter prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this paragraph.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 110 and 111
218.	Admission of evidence taken under extra-territorial examination order
(1)	A court may permit a party to tender the following evidence in a proceeding —
(a)	evidence of a person taken in an examination held as a result of an extra-territorial examination order that was made for the purpose of that proceeding;
(b)	a record of the evidence referred to in paragraph (a).
(2)	However, evidence of a person must not be admitted under this section if —
(a)	at the hearing of the proceeding the court is satisfied that the person is in the State and is able to attend the hearing; or
(b)	the evidence would not have been admissible had it been given or produced at the hearing of the proceeding.
(3)	The court may exclude from the proceeding evidence taken in an examination held as a result of an extra-territorial examination order, even though it is otherwise admissible, if it is in the interests of justice to do so.
(4)	If evidence is admitted under this section, the hearsay rule does not apply to evidence of a previous representation taken in an examination, but only if the evidence would have been admissible had it been given or produced at the hearing of the proceeding.
(5)	This section extends to the following evidence —
(a)	a document produced at an examination;
(b)	answers made, whether in writing, or orally and reduced to writing, to any written interrogatories presented at an examination.
(6)	This section does not affect the functions of the court under Part 5.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 110, 111 and 112
219.	Operation of other laws
This Division does not affect the operation of any other law of the State that makes provision for the examination of witnesses outside the State for the purpose of a proceeding in the State.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 113
220.	Regulations and rules of court
(1)	The regulations may make further provision for extra-territorial examination orders and, in particular, for the practice and procedure of a superior court in a proceeding for the making of an extra-territorial examination order.
(2)	The power of a person or body to make rules of court extends to making rules, not inconsistent with this Act or the regulations, regulating the practice and procedure of a superior court in a proceeding for the making of an extra-territorial examination order.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 114
	Division 3 — Assistance to other Australian courts and foreign courts
221.	Terms used
(1)	In this Division —
assistance application has the meaning given in section 222(1);
assistance order has the meaning given in section 223(1);
requesting court means a court or tribunal that issues a request or on behalf of which a request is issued, as referred to in section 223(1)(a).
(2)	A reference in this Division to a proceeding before a court or tribunal includes a reference to a proceeding the institution of which before a court or tribunal is contemplated.
(3)	A reference in this Division to a request issued by or on behalf of a court or tribunal includes a reference to any commission, order or other process issued by or on behalf of a court or tribunal.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 115
222.	Application to Supreme Court for assistance
(1)	This Division applies if an application (an assistance application) is made to the Supreme Court for assistance in obtaining evidence in the State for the purposes of a proceeding before a court or tribunal exercising jurisdiction in a place outside the State.
(2)	This Division applies only if the proceeding to which the assistance application relates is —
(a)	a criminal proceeding before a court exercising jurisdiction in a place outside the State that is in Australia or New Zealand; or
(b)	a civil proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 116
223.	Supreme Court may make order to assist in obtaining evidence
(1)	The Supreme Court may, on an assistance application, make an order (an assistance order) for obtaining evidence in the State if satisfied that —
(a)	the assistance application is made for the purposes of a request issued by or on behalf of a court or tribunal exercising jurisdiction in a place outside the State; and
(b)	the evidence to which the assistance application relates is to be obtained for the purposes of a proceeding before the requesting court.
(2)	An assistance order may include any provisions the Supreme Court considers appropriate for the purpose of giving effect to the request to which the assistance application relates.
(3)	An assistance order may require a specified person to take any steps the Supreme Court considers appropriate for the purpose of giving effect to the request to which the assistance application relates.
(4)	Without limiting subsection (2) or (3), an assistance order may make provision for the following —
(a)	the examination of witnesses, either orally or in writing;
(b)	the production of documents;
(c)	the inspection, photographing, preservation, custody or detention of any property;
(d)	the taking of samples of any property and the carrying out of any experiments on or with any property;
(e)	the medical examination of any person;
(f)	without limiting paragraph (e), the taking and testing of samples of blood from any person.
(5)	An assistance order must not include a requirement unless that requirement could be made to obtain evidence for the purposes of a proceeding in the Supreme Court (whether or not a proceeding of the same description as the proceeding to which the assistance application relates).
(6)	Subsection (5) does not prevent the making of an order requiring a person to give testimony (either orally or in writing) otherwise than on oath or affirmation if that is requested by the requesting court.
(7)	An assistance order must not require a person —
(a)	to state what documents relevant to the proceeding to which the assistance application relates are or have been in the person’s possession, custody or power; or
(b)	to produce any documents other than particular documents specified in the order and appearing to the Supreme Court to be, or to be likely to be, in the person’s possession, custody or power.
(8)	A person who is required to attend any place under an assistance order is entitled to any allowances and expenses that the person would be entitled to on attendance as a witness in a proceeding before the Supreme Court.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 116 and 117
224.	Privilege of witnesses
(1)	A person must not be compelled by an assistance order to give any evidence for the purpose of a proceeding before a requesting court if the person could not be compelled to give the evidence —
(a)	in a similar proceeding in the State; or
(b)	in a similar proceeding in the place in which the requesting court exercises jurisdiction.
(2)	Subsection (1)(b) does not apply unless the claim of the person to be exempt from giving evidence is either —
(a)	supported by a statement contained in the request of the requesting court (whether unconditionally or subject to conditions); or
(b)	conceded by the applicant for the assistance order.
(3)	If a claim by a person to be exempt from giving evidence is not supported or conceded as referred to in subsection (2), the person may (subject to subsection (1)(a)) be required to give the evidence to which the claim relates but that evidence must not be transmitted to the requesting court unless —
(a)	the claim is referred to the requesting court; and
(b)	the requesting court dismisses the claim.
(4)	In this section —
(a)	a reference to giving evidence includes a reference to producing any document or thing; and
(b)	a reference to transmitting evidence given includes a reference to transmitting any document or thing that is produced.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 118
225.	Rules of court
(1)	The Supreme Court may make rules of court under the Supreme Court Act 1935 for or with respect to the following —
(a)	the manner in which an assistance application must be made;
(b)	the circumstances in which an assistance order may be made;
(c)	the manner in which a claim of a person to be exempt from giving evidence under an assistance order must be made;
(d)	any other matters that are necessary or convenient for carrying out or giving effect to this Division.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not limit the rule-making powers conferred by the Supreme Court Act 1935.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 118A
226.	Offence of giving false testimony
A person who, in giving any testimony (either orally or in writing) otherwise than on oath or affirmation when required to do so by an assistance order, makes a statement that the person knows is false or that the person does not believe is true commits a crime.
Penalty: imprisonment for 7 years.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 118B
227.	Operation of other laws
This Division does not affect the operation of any other law of the State that makes provision for the taking of evidence in the State for the purpose of a proceeding outside the State.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 118C
	Part 7 — Witness assistance measures
	Division 1 — Preliminary
228.	Terms used
(1)	In this Part —
affected child, in relation to a child protection proceeding, means the child in respect of whom an application under the Children and Community Services Act 2004 Part 4 is made;
alter —
(a)	a recording, includes edit the recording; and
(b)	a transcript of a recording, includes edit the transcript;
child protection proceeding —
(a)	means protection proceedings as defined in the Children and Community Services Act 2004 section 3; and
(b)	includes any related proceedings and any protection proceedings dealt with under Part 5 of that Act;
destroy, a recording, includes —
(a)	erase, delete or obliterate all or any part of the recording; and
(b)	render any images or sounds recorded in the recording irrecoverable;
out-of-court representation has the meaning given in section 235;
pre-recording procedure means a procedure by which a witness’s evidence in a proceeding is given at a special hearing (as defined in section 261) and recorded on a visual recording that is later presented to the court;
recorded interview has the meaning given in section 251;
recorded statement has the meaning given in section 239;
special procedure for giving evidence means any of the following procedures for giving evidence —
(a)	a pre-recording procedure;
(b)	a video link separation procedure;
(c)	a screening procedure;
special witness means a witness in a proceeding —
(a)	who must be treated as a special witness under section 229; or
(b)	who the court declares to be a special witness under section 230;
visual recording —
(a)	means any recording on any medium from which a moving image may be produced by any means; and
(b)	includes the accompanying soundtrack;
witness assessment has the meaning given in section 289(1);
witness intermediary means a person appointed as a witness intermediary for a witness in a proceeding under section 291(1).
(2)	A provision of this Part that applies to a child protection proceeding applies as if —
(a)	a reference to an accused were a reference to any party to the proceeding, other than the affected child or an applicant under the Children and Community Services Act 2004 Part 4 or 5 who is an officer as defined in section 3 of that Act; and
(b)	a reference to a complainant were a reference to the affected child.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106A
229.	Witnesses who must be treated as special witness
(1)	In a criminal proceeding, a witness must be treated as a special witness —
(a)	if the proceeding is a proceeding in a superior court for a sexual offence and the witness is the complainant; or
(b)	if the proceeding is for a criminal or identified organisation offence and the witness is —
(i)	the complainant; or
(ii)	any witness for the prosecution;
or
(c)	if the proceeding is a proceeding in a superior court for a family violence offence and the witness is the complainant; or
(d)	if the witness has a mental impairment that affects the witness’s ability to give evidence; or
(e)	in any other circumstances specified in the regulations for the purposes of this paragraph.
(2)	A power to specify circumstances conferred by subsection (1)(e) includes a power to specify circumstances by reference to any of the following —
(a)	the type of offence to which the proceeding relates;
(b)	the characteristics of the witness;
(c)	the court in which the proceedings are heard.
(3)	In deciding whether a witness must be treated as a special witness under subsection (1)(d) or (e), a court may inform itself as it thinks fit.
230.	Witnesses who may be declared to be special witness
(1)	A court may, by order, declare a witness to be a special witness in a proceeding if the court is of the opinion that, unless the witness is treated as a special witness, the witness —
(a)	is unlikely to be able to give evidence, or to give evidence satisfactorily, because of a disability; or
(b)	is likely to be intimidated or distressed, because of age, cultural background, relationship to any party in the proceeding, the nature of the subject matter of the evidence or any other factor that the court considers relevant.
(2)	An order under this section may be made —
(a)	on application by a party to the proceeding, on notice to the other parties; or
(b)	on the court’s own initiative.
(3)	The court must be satisfied that it is in the interests of justice to make the order.
(4)	The court may at any time vary or revoke an order under this section.
(5)	If the proceeding in which a person is declared to be a special witness is a proceeding before a jury, the court must instruct the jury that —
(a)	the making of the declaration is a routine practice of the court; and
(b)	the jury should not draw any inference as to the guilt of an accused or the culpability of a party from the making of the declaration on the court’s own initiative.
(6)	In deciding whether to make, vary or revoke an order declaring a witness to be a special witness, the court may inform itself as it thinks fit.
(7)	This section does not apply in respect of a witness if the witness must be treated as a special witness under section 229.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106R
	Division 2 — Support and communication assistance for children and special witnesses
231.	Use of support person
(1)	The following witnesses are entitled, while giving evidence in a proceeding, to have a person nearby to provide the witness with support —
(a)	a witness who is a child when the proceeding commences;
(b)	a special witness.
(2)	The person who provides support must be a person approved by the court and must not be a person who is a witness in, or a party to, the proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106E and 106R(4)(a)
232.	Use of support animal
(1)	The following witnesses may, with the approval of the court, have an animal (a support animal) nearby to provide the witness with support while the witness is giving evidence —
(a)	a witness who is a child when the proceeding commences;
(b)	a special witness.
(2)	The use of the support animal must comply with any requirements imposed by the court or prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this subsection.
(3)	This section does not affect any entitlement that a person with a disability has to be accompanied by an assistance animal as defined in the Disability Discrimination Act 1992 (Commonwealth) section 9(2).
233.	Use of communicator
(1)	A court may, on its own initiative or on the application of a party, appoint a person to act as a communicator for a witness while the witness is giving evidence if —
(a)	the witness is a child when the proceeding commences or a special witness; and
(b)	the court considers it in the interests of justice to do so.
(2)	The functions of the person acting as a communicator are, if requested by the judge, to communicate and explain —
(a)	to the witness, questions put to the witness; and
(b)	to the court, evidence given by the witness.
(3)	The use of a communicator must comply with any requirements imposed by the court or prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this subsection.
(4)	The court may appoint any person it considers suitable and competent to act as a communicator for a witness under this section, including a family member or carer.
(5)	It is not necessary for the person appointed as a communicator to have any particular training, study or experience.
(6)	A person appointed to act as a communicator must either take an oath or make an affirmation, in a form directed by the court, that the person will exercise the person’s functions as a communicator to the best of the person’s ability.
(7)	A person who, while performing or purporting to perform a function as a communicator under this section, makes any statement the person knows to be false or misleading to a witness or the court commits a crime.
Penalty for this subsection: imprisonment for 5 years.
Summary conviction penalty for this subsection: imprisonment for 2 years or a fine of $24 000.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106F and 106R(4)(b)
	Division 3 — Admission of out-of-court representations
234.	Application of Division
This Division applies to the following proceedings —
(a)	a criminal proceeding for a sexual offence if the complainant is a child when the proceeding commences;
(b)	a criminal proceeding for a family violence offence if the complainant is a child when the proceeding commences;
(c)	a child protection proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106H and Schedule 7
235.	Term used: out-of-court representation
In this Division —
out-of-court representation —
(a)	means a representation that relates to a fact in issue in a proceeding to which this Division applies and that was made by a person to another person before the proceeding commenced, whether or not it is recorded; but
(b)	does not include —
(i)	a recorded statement that is admissible under Division 4; or
(ii)	a recorded interview that is admissible under Division 5.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106H(3)
236.	Admission of out-of-court representations
(1)	A court may admit into evidence an out-of-court representation made by a complainant if —
(a)	a transcript of the out-of-court representation or, if the out-of-court representation is not recorded in writing or electronically, details of the out-of-court representation have been given to the accused and the accused’s legal counsel; and
(b)	in the case of an out-of-court representation made to a police officer of this State that is recorded in a visual recording or audio recording —
(i)	a copy of the recording has been given to the accused’s legal counsel; or
(ii)	if the accused is not represented by legal counsel, the accused has been given a reasonable opportunity, in accordance with the regulations, to view the recording (if it is a visual recording) or to hear the recording (if it is an audio recording);
and
(c)	in the case of an out-of-court representation that is recorded in a visual recording or audio recording, and which is not an out-of-court representation made to a police officer of this State, a copy of the recording has been given to the accused and the accused’s legal counsel; and
(d)	the accused is given an opportunity to cross-examine the complainant.
(2)	Subsection (1)(b) and (c) refer to a copy of the original recording of an out-of-court representation that has not been altered, even if an altered version is to be played to the court.
(3)	If an out-of-court representation is admitted, evidence of the making and content of the out-of-court representation must be given by the person to whom the complainant made the out-of-court representation.
(4)	If an out-of-court representation is recorded in a written statement made in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act 2004 Schedule 3 clause 4(1), the written statement may be admitted as evidence of the making and content of the out-of-court representation by the complainant.
(5)	If an out-of-court representation is recorded in a visual recording or an audio recording, the recording may be admitted as evidence of the making and content of the out-of-court representation by the complainant.
(6)	An out-of-court representation may be admitted into evidence whether or not the complainant is to give evidence in chief in the proceeding.
(7)	The admission of an out-of-court representation does not prevent a recorded interview or recorded statement being admitted as the evidence in chief of a complainant.
(8)	This section does not affect the operation of section 57.
(9)	In a child protection proceeding, this section does not affect the operation of the Children and Community Services Act 2004 section 150.
(10)	The accused is not entitled to be in possession of, or of a copy of —
(a)	a visual recording or audio recording of an out-of-court representation made to a police officer of this State; or
(b)	any visual recording or audio recording of evidence that incorporates a visual recording or audio recording of an out-of-court representation made to a police officer of this State.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106H
237.	Application of rules of evidence
(1)	The hearsay rule does not prevent the admission or use of evidence of an out-of-court representation to prove the existence of an asserted fact.
(2)	The opinion rule does not prevent the admission or use of evidence of an opinion expressed by a complainant in an out-of-court representation to prove the existence of a fact about the existence of which the opinion was expressed.
	Division 4 — Admission of recorded statements
238.	Application of Division
(1)	This Division applies to the following proceedings —
(a)	a criminal proceeding for a family violence offence;
(b)	any other criminal proceeding in the circumstances specified in the regulations for the purposes of this paragraph.
(2)	A power to specify circumstances conferred by subsection (1)(b) includes a power to specify circumstances by reference to any of the following —
(a)	the type of offence to which the proceeding relates;
(b)	the characteristics of the complainant;
(c)	the court in which the proceedings are heard.
(3)	This Division and the regulations under this Division have effect in addition to, and do not limit the operation of, any other provision of this Act or any written law or principle or rule of common law or equity under which a recorded statement is admissible in a proceeding.
239.	Terms used
In this Division —
recorded statement means a visual recording or audio recording of a statement made by a person to a police officer about an offence, not being a statement made by a person accused of the offence;
statement admissibility regulations has the meaning given in section 241(1).
240.	Recorded statement admissible as evidence in chief
(1)	A recorded statement of a complainant is admissible under this Division as the whole or part of the evidence in chief of the complainant if the court is satisfied that —
(a)	the complainant consented to the creation of the recorded statement; and
(b)	the recorded statement was created as soon as practicable after the commission of the offence to which the proceeding relates; and
(c)	at the time the recorded statement was created, the complainant —
(i)	had reached 18 years of age; and
(ii)	was competent to give sworn or unsworn evidence; and
(iii)	was capable of giving consent to the creation of the recorded statement;
and
(d)	in the recorded statement, the complainant —
(i)	states or confirms the complainant’s name and age; and
(ii)	indicates consent to the creation of the recorded statement; and
(iii)	makes a declaration to the effect of subsection (2);
and
(e)	the police officer who created the recorded statement —
(i)	was qualified to create the recorded statement under the statement admissibility regulations; and
(ii)	complied with the Criminal Investigation Act 2006 section 124B(3);
and
(f)	the recorded statement meets any other requirements of the statement admissibility regulations to the extent required by those regulations.
(2)	The declaration required under subsection (1)(d)(iii) is as follows —
This statement is true to the best of my knowledge and belief. I have made this statement knowing that, if it is tendered in evidence, I will be guilty of an offence if I have included in the statement anything that I know to be false or that I do not believe is true.
(3)	A person who, in a recorded statement that is tendered in evidence, makes a declaration to the effect of subsection (2) and includes anything in the statement that the person knows is false or that the person does not believe is true commits a crime.
Penalty for this subsection: imprisonment for 7 years.
(4)	A recorded statement is admissible under this Division —
(a)	even if the person who made the statement that is recorded is capable of giving evidence at the proceeding; and
(b)	even if the recorded statement was created before the proceeding commenced.
241.	Statement admissibility regulations
(1)	Regulations made for the purposes of this section (the statement admissibility regulations) may specify requirements relating to the admission of a recorded statement under this Division, including, without limitation, relating to the following —
(a)	the class of police officers who are qualified to create a recorded statement;
(b)	the manner in which a statement must be created;
(c)	the manner in which a statement must be recorded;
(d)	the extent to which any specified requirements must be met.
(2)	The statement admissibility regulations may specify the class of police officers who are qualified to create a recorded statement by reference to the office or position held by the police officer, by reference to training or experience, or a combination of those criteria.
(3)	The requirements specified by the statement admissibility regulations may be different for different classes of complainant.
242.	Statement must be provided to accused
(1)	A court must not admit a recorded statement under this Division unless —
(a)	a transcript of the recorded statement has been given to the accused and the accused’s legal counsel; and
(b)	a copy of the recorded statement has been given to the accused’s legal counsel; and
(c)	if the accused is not represented by legal counsel, the accused has been given a reasonable opportunity, in accordance with the regulations, to view the recorded statement (if it is a visual recording) or hear the recorded statement (if it is an audio recording).
(2)	Subsection (1)(b) and (c) refer to a copy of the original version of the recorded statement that has not been altered, even if an altered version is to be played to the court.
(3)	The accused is not entitled to be in possession of, or of a copy of —
(a)	a recorded statement; or
(b)	any visual recording or audio recording of evidence that incorporates a recorded statement.
243.	Accused must be given opportunity to cross-examine complainant
(1)	A court must not admit a recorded statement under this Division unless the accused is given an opportunity to cross-examine the complainant.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not apply if the court is satisfied that —
(a)	the complainant is not available to give evidence; or
(b)	the complainant is out of the State and is not able to give evidence at the proceeding by means of a video link or an audio link, even if the witness might return at some future time; or
(c)	the complainant is being kept out of the way by the accused; or
(d)	all the parties consent and the interests of justice do not require the presence of the complainant.
(3)	However, if there is a prospect that the complainant, in the circumstances referred to in subsection (2)(a), might become available to give evidence, the court need not admit the statement but may adjourn the hearing of the proceeding.
(4)	Subsection (1) does not prevent any further evidence of the complainant being given under a special procedure for giving evidence.
(5)	This section does not affect the operation of section 57.
244.	Application of rules of evidence
(1)	The hearsay rule does not prevent the admission or use of evidence of a representation made by a complainant in a recorded statement to prove the existence of an asserted fact.
(2)	The opinion rule does not prevent the admission or use of evidence of an opinion expressed by a complainant in a recorded statement to prove the existence of a fact about the existence of which the opinion was expressed.
(3)	The rule that leading questions must not be put to a witness in examination in chief provided for in section 46 does not prevent a court from allowing any part of a recorded statement to be admitted as the evidence in chief of a complainant if the court is satisfied that the manner in which the recorded statement was created meets the requirements of the statement admissibility regulations to the extent required by those regulations.
245.	Presentation of recorded statement
(1)	The court may give directions as to the manner in which a recorded statement must be presented to the court and the excision of matters from it.
(2)	Without limiting subsection (1), the court may give any of the following directions —
(a)	a direction that the recorded statement be played to the court;
(b)	a direction that the recorded statement be tendered to the court;
(c)	a direction that a transcript of the recorded statement be tendered to the court.
(3)	A jury in the proceeding may, with the leave of the court, be given access to a transcript of a recorded statement.
246.	Further evidence
If a recorded statement is admitted as all or part of the evidence in chief of a complainant, the court may give directions as to —
(a)	the manner in which further evidence in chief of the complainant may be given at the proceeding; and
(b)	the manner in which any cross-examination or re-examination of the complainant must be conducted at the proceeding.
247.	Presence of complainant not required during presentation of statement
(1)	A complainant may, but is not required to, be present in the courtroom when a recorded statement of the complainant is played to the court.
(2)	The court may direct that arrangements be made that enable the complainant to view the proceeding from outside the courtroom when the recorded statement is played, by closed-circuit television or otherwise.
(3)	The arrangements that enable the complainant to view the proceeding from outside the courtroom must ensure that the complainant is not visible or audible to anyone in the court, other than the judge.
(4)	Subsection (1) does not prevent the court from directing the complainant to leave the courtroom while the recorded statement is played if the court considers it appropriate to do so in the interests of justice.
248.	Warning and comments to jury
(1)	A judge in any proceeding before a jury in which a recorded statement is admitted under this Division as the whole or part of the evidence in chief of a person must instruct the jury that —
(a)	the procedure is a routine practice of the court; and
(b)	the jury should not draw an inference as to the accused’s guilt from the use of the procedure.
(2)	In a proceeding before a jury, the judge, the accused or the accused’s legal counsel must not comment to the jury about a failure by the prosecutor to adduce a recorded statement of a person as the evidence in chief of a person under this Division.
(3)	Subsection (2) does not prevent a judge from directing the jury about a contravention of that subsection by the accused or the accused’s legal counsel if it is in the interests of justice to do so.
249.	Other regulations
The regulations may make further provision for recorded statements that are admissible under this Division or created for use as evidence under this Division, including, without limitation, for or with respect to the following —
(a)	the alteration, playing, custody, possession, storage, copying, transcription or destruction of recorded statements;
(b)	the records that are to be kept about recorded statements;
(c)	access to a recorded statement by the prosecutor for the purposes of any proceeding in which the recorded statement may be admitted as evidence in chief of a person;
(d)	access to and use of a recorded statement for the purposes of any proceeding in the Children’s Court or the Family Court (whether or not it has been admitted in evidence under this Division);
(e)	access to and use of a recorded statement otherwise than for the purposes of a proceeding in which the statement may be admitted under this Division or as referred to in paragraph (d);
(f)	the manner in which compliance with any of the requirements for admissibility under this Division may be proved in a proceeding.
	Division 5 — Admission of recorded interviews
250.	Application of Division
(1)	This Division applies to a criminal proceeding.
(2)	This Division, and the regulations under this Division, do not affect the operation of any other provision of this Act or any written law or principle or rule of common law or equity under which a recorded interview is admissible in a proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106HD
251.	Terms used
In this Division —
interview admissibility regulations has the meaning given in section 253(1);
recorded interview means a visual recording of an interview with a person about an offence, not being an interview with a person accused of the offence.
252.	Recorded interview admissible as evidence in chief
(1)	A recorded interview with a person is admissible under this Division as the whole or part of the evidence in chief of the person in the following proceedings —
(a)	a criminal proceeding for a sexual offence, if the person interviewed —
(i)	is the complainant; and
(ii)	was a child at the time of the offence (regardless of the person’s age at the time of the interview);
(b)	any criminal proceeding, if the court is satisfied that the person interviewed —
(i)	was a child at the time of the interview; or
(ii)	is a person with a mental impairment who, because of that mental impairment, is a special witness in the proceeding.
(2)	The court must not admit the recorded interview under this Division unless —
(a)	the court is satisfied that —
(i)	the person who conducted the interview in the recorded interview was qualified to conduct the interview under the interview admissibility regulations; and
(ii)	the recorded interview meets any other requirements of the interview admissibility regulations to the extent required by those regulations;
and
(b)	the accused is given an opportunity to cross-examine the person interviewed.
(3)	A recorded interview with a person is admissible under this Division —
(a)	whether or not the interview was conducted with the consent of a parent or guardian of the person; and
(b)	irrespective of the age or maturity of the person at the time of the proceeding; and
(c)	even if the person is capable of giving evidence at the proceeding; and
(d)	even if conducted before the proceeding commenced.
(4)	This section does not affect the operation of section 57.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106HA and 106HB
253.	Regulations may specify admissibility requirements for interviews
(1)	Regulations made for the purposes of this section (the interview admissibility regulations) may specify requirements relating to the admission of recorded interviews under this Division, including, without limitation, the following —
(a)	the class of persons who are qualified to conduct the interview that is recorded;
(b)	the manner in which the interview must be conducted;
(c)	the manner in which the interview must be recorded;
(d)	the information that must be recorded;
(e)	requirements relating to apparent level of understanding or cognitive functioning of the person being interviewed;
(f)	the extent to which any specified requirements must be met.
(2)	The interview admissibility regulations may specify the class of persons who are qualified to conduct an interview by reference to the office or position held by the person, by reference to training or experience, or by a combination of those criteria.
(3)	The requirements specified by the interview admissibility regulations may be different for different classes of person interviewed.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106HC
254.	Interview must be provided to accused
(1)	A court must not admit a recorded interview under this Division unless —
(a)	a transcript of the interview has been given to the accused and the accused’s legal counsel; and
(b)	the accused and the accused’s legal counsel have been given a reasonable opportunity, in accordance with the regulations, to view the recorded interview.
(2)	Subsection (1)(b) refers to a copy of the original version of the recorded interview that has not been altered, even if an altered version is to be played to the court.
(3)	The accused is not entitled to be in possession of, or of a copy of —
(a)	a recorded interview; or
(b)	any visual recording or audio recording of evidence that incorporates a recorded interview.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106HB(2) and (3)
255.	Application of rules of evidence
(1)	The hearsay rule does not prevent the admission or use of evidence of a representation made by a person in a recorded interview to prove the existence of an asserted fact.
(2)	The opinion rule does not prevent the admission or use of evidence of an opinion expressed by a person in a recorded interview to prove the existence of a fact about the existence of which the opinion was expressed.
(3)	The rule that leading questions must not be put to a witness in examination in chief provided for in section 46 does not prevent a court from allowing any part of a recorded interview to be admitted as the evidence in chief of a person if the court is satisfied that the manner in which the interview was conducted complies with the interview admissibility regulations to the extent required by those regulations.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106HB(4)
256.	Presentation of recorded interview
(1)	A court may give directions as to the manner in which a recorded interview must be presented to the court and the excision of matters from it.
(2)	Without limiting subsection (1), the court may give any of the following directions —
(a)	a direction that the recorded interview be played to the court;
(b)	a direction that the recorded interview be tendered to the court;
(c)	a direction that a transcript of the recorded interview be tendered to the court.
(3)	A jury in the proceeding may, with the leave of the court, be given access to a transcript of a recorded interview.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106HB(5)(a)
257.	Further evidence
If a recorded interview is admitted as all or part of the evidence in chief of a person, the court may give directions as to —
(a)	the manner in which further evidence in chief of the person may be given at the proceeding; and
(b)	the manner in which any cross-examination or re-examination of the person must be conducted at the proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106HB(5)(b)
258.	Presence of person interviewed not required during presentation of interview
(1)	A person interviewed in a recorded interview may, but is not required to, be present in the courtroom when the recorded interview is played to the court.
(2)	The court may direct that arrangements be made that enable the person to view the proceeding from outside the courtroom when the recorded interview is played, by closed-circuit television or otherwise.
(3)	The arrangements that enable the person to view the proceeding from outside the courtroom must ensure that the person is not visible or audible to anyone in the court, other than the judge.
(4)	Subsection (1) does not prevent the court from directing the person to leave the courtroom while the recorded interview is played if the court considers it appropriate to do so in the interests of justice.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106HB(6a)
259.	Warning and comments to jury
(1)	A judge in any proceeding before a jury in which a recorded interview is admitted under this Division as the whole or part of the evidence in chief of a person must instruct the jury that —
(a)	the procedure is a routine practice of the court; and
(b)	the jury should not draw an inference as to the guilt of the accused from the use of the procedure.
(2)	In a proceeding before a jury, the judge, the accused or the accused’s legal counsel must not comment to the jury about a failure by the prosecutor to adduce a recorded interview with a person as the evidence in chief of the person under this Division.
(3)	Subsection (2) does not prevent a judge from directing the jury about a contravention of that subsection by the accused or the accused’s legal counsel if it is in the interests of justice to do so.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106HB(7)
260.	Other regulations
The regulations may make further provision for recorded interviews that are admissible under this Division or made for use as evidence under this Division, including, without limitation, for or with respect to the following —
(a)	the alteration, playing, custody, possession, storage, copying, transcription or destruction of recorded interviews;
(b)	the records that are to be kept about a recorded interview;
(c)	access to a recorded interview by the prosecutor for the purposes of any proceeding in which the recorded interview may be admitted as evidence in chief of a person;
(d)	access to and use of a recorded interview for the purposes of any proceeding in the Children’s Court or the Family Court (whether or not it has been admitted in evidence under this Division);
(e)	access to and use of a recorded interview otherwise than for the purposes of a proceeding in which the interview may be admitted under this Division or as referred to in paragraph (d);
(f)	the manner in which compliance with any of the requirements for admissibility under this Division may be proved in a proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106HC
	Division 6 — Pre-recording procedure
261.	Terms used
In this Division —
pre-recording order has the meaning given in section 262(1);
special hearing means a special hearing held for the purposes of a pre-recording procedure.
262.	General provisions about pre-recording orders
(1)	A pre-recording order is an order of a court under section 263 directing that the whole or any part of the evidence of a witness in a proceeding be given using a pre-recording procedure.
(2)	A pre-recording order may be made by a court —
(a)	on the application of the party proposing to call the witness; or
(b)	on the court’s own initiative.
(3)	A pre-recording order may include any directions the court making the order thinks fit relating to the pre-recording procedure, including, but not limited to, the following —
(a)	the conduct of the special hearing at which the evidence of the witness is to be given;
(b)	arrangements for examination of the witness, including the presentation and incorporation of any recorded statement or recorded interview of the witness at the special hearing;
(c)	arrangements for cross-examination or re-examination of the witness;
(d)	the place at which the special hearing is to be held (whether in the courtroom or a separate room);
(e)	the persons who may be present in the same room as the witness when the witness’s evidence is given;
(f)	arrangements for an accused or a party to observe or listen to the special hearing.
(4)	A pre-recording order must not be inconsistent with the requirements for a pre-recording procedure specified in this Division.
(5)	A pre-recording order may be varied or revoked by further order of the court made —
(a)	on the application of a party; or
(b)	on the court’s own initiative.
(6)	A party to a proceeding must be served with a copy of an application by another party for —
(a)	a pre-recording order; or
(b)	the variation or revocation of a pre-recording order.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106I, 106K and 106RA
263.	Circumstances in which pre-recording order may be made
(1)	A court may make a pre-recording order directing that the whole or any part of the evidence of a witness be given using a pre-recording procedure —
(a)	if the witness is a child when the proceeding commences; or
(b)	if the witness —
(i)	is the complainant in a criminal proceeding for a sexual offence; and
(ii)	was a child at the time of the offence (regardless of the witness’s age at the time of the proceeding);
or
(c)	if the witness is a special witness in a criminal proceeding; or
(d)	if the court is satisfied that the witness is likely to be out of the State at the time of the proceeding and will not be able to give evidence at the proceeding by means of a video link or an audio link; or
(e)	in any circumstances specified in the regulations for the purposes of this paragraph; or
(f)	in any other circumstances that, in the opinion of the court, justify the use of a pre-recording procedure.
(2)	A court must have regard to the interests of justice in deciding whether to make a pre-recording order in respect of a witness under this section, including —
(a)	the needs of the witness; and
(b)	the length of time until a trial is likely to be held.
(3)	A power to specify circumstances under subsection (1)(e) includes a power to specify circumstances by reference to any of the following —
(a)	the characteristics of the witness;
(b)	the type of proceeding;
(c)	the location of the proceeding.
(4)	In deciding whether the court is satisfied of the circumstances referred to in subsection (1)(e) or (f), the court may inform itself as it thinks fit.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106I and 106RA
264.	Conduct of special hearing
(1)	A witness may give evidence at a special hearing in accordance with a pre-recording order, subject to the control of the presiding judge.
(2)	The usual rules of evidence apply to the special hearing, except as otherwise provided by this Division.
(3)	More than 1 special hearing may be held for the purposes of obtaining the evidence of the witness and, in that case, this Division applies in relation to each special hearing with any necessary modifications.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106K(3) and (5)
265.	Restrictions on persons who may be present at special hearing
(1)	A person (including an accused) must not be in the same room as a witness when the witness’s evidence is given at a special hearing unless the person is the presiding judge or a person authorised by a pre-recording order.
(2)	In a criminal proceeding or child protection proceeding, an accused must not be in, and cannot be authorised by a pre-recording order to be in, the same room as a witness when the witness’s evidence is given at a special hearing —
(a)	if the witness is a child when the proceeding commences; or
(b)	if the witness —
(i)	is the complainant in a criminal proceeding for a sexual offence; and
(ii)	was a child at the time of the offence (regardless of the witness’s age at the time of the proceeding);
or
(c)	if the witness is a special witness; or
(d)	in any other circumstances specified in the regulations for the purposes of this paragraph.
(3)	However, the accused must —
(a)	be able to observe the special hearing by means of a video link or, if section 266 applies, to listen to the special hearing by means of an audio link; and
(b)	at all times have the means of communicating with the accused’s legal counsel or, if the accused is not represented, with the court.
(4)	This section applies despite the Criminal Procedure Act 2004 section 88.
(5)	If an accused gives evidence at a special hearing under a pre-recording order, a reference in subsections (1) to (3) to the accused is a reference to any other accused in the proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106K(3)
266.	Alternative arrangements for attendance at special hearing
(1)	A court may direct that an accused or party listen to a special hearing by means of an audio link if, in the opinion of the court, it is not desirable for the accused or party to attend court due to the person’s health or another reason.
(2)	If the court directs that the accused or party listen to a special hearing by means of an audio link, the accused or party must be provided with a reasonable opportunity to view a copy of the visual recording of evidence from the special hearing before the evidence is presented to the court.
(3)	A person must not make a copy of, or otherwise reproduce, any audio of a special hearing, or any part of a special hearing, heard by means of an audio link under subsection (1).
Penalty for this subsection: imprisonment for 2 years or a fine of $24 000.
(4)	A person must not play, supply or offer to supply any copy of, or reproduction of, any audio of a special hearing, or any part of a special hearing, heard by means of an audio link under subsection (1).
Penalty for this subsection: imprisonment for 2 years or a fine of $24 000.
(5)	A person must not publish any audio of a special hearing, or any part of a special hearing, heard by means of an audio link under subsection (1).
Penalty for this subsection: imprisonment for 2 years or a fine of $100 000.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106K(3A), (3B), (4A), (4B) and (4C)
267.	Use of recorded statement or interview at special hearing
This Division does not prevent a recorded statement or recorded interview from being presented as the whole or part of a witness’s evidence in chief in a special hearing.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106K(4)
268.	Admissibility of recording of evidence taken at special hearing
(1)	A recording of evidence given by a witness at a special hearing is admissible in the proceeding for which it was made, and in any related proceeding, to the same extent as if it were given orally in the proceeding in accordance with the usual rules and practice of the court concerned.
(2)	If a pre-recording order is made on the ground that the witness is likely to be out of the State at the time of the proceeding, subsection (1) applies only if the court is satisfied at the proceeding that —
(a)	the witness is not available to give evidence; or
(b)	the witness is out of the State and is not able to give evidence at the proceeding by means of a video link or an audio link, even if the witness might return at some future time; or
(c)	the witness is being kept out of the way by a party; or
(d)	all of the parties consent and the interests of justice do not require the presence of the witness.
(3)	However, if there is a prospect that a witness referred to in subsection (2)(a) might become available to give evidence, the court need not admit the evidence but may adjourn the hearing of the proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106T
269.	Presentation of recording of evidence
(1)	The court may give directions as to the manner in which a recording of evidence given by a witness at a special hearing must be presented to the court and the excision of matters from it.
(2)	Without limiting subsection (1), the court may give any of the following directions —
(a)	a direction that the recording of evidence be played to the court;
(b)	a direction that the recording of evidence be tendered to the court;
(c)	a direction that a transcript of the recording of evidence be tendered to the court.
(3)	A jury in the proceeding may, with the leave of the court, be given access to a transcript of a recording of evidence.
270.	Presence of witness not required during presentation of recording of evidence
(1)	A witness may, but is not required to, be present in the courtroom when a recording of evidence given by the witness is played to the court.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not prevent the court from directing the witness to leave the courtroom while the recording of evidence is played if the court considers it appropriate to do so in the interests of justice.
(3)	The court may direct that arrangements be made that enable the witness to view the proceeding from outside the courtroom when the recording of evidence is played, by closed-circuit television or otherwise.
(4)	The arrangements that enable the witness to view the proceeding from outside the courtroom must ensure that the witness is not visible or audible to anyone in the court, other than the judge.
(5)	This section does not prevent the court from directing that a witness be visible or audible to the courtroom while a recording of evidence is played if the witness has reached 18 years of age and the court considers it appropriate to do so in the interests of justice.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106I(1)(b) and 106T(2c)
271.	Witness may be required to give further evidence
(1)	A witness who has given evidence in a special hearing may be called to give further evidence in the proceeding, but only with the leave of the court.
(2)	The court may give leave only if satisfied that —
(a)	the further evidence is required —
(i)	to clarify evidence given in the special hearing; or
(ii)	because of a matter which the party seeking leave could not reasonably have been aware of at the time of the special hearing;
and
(b)	it is in the interests of justice to do so.
(3)	The further evidence must be limited to the matters in relation to which the leave is granted.
(4)	The further evidence may be given in the absence of the jury (if any) if the court considers it appropriate in the interests of justice.
(5)	Subsection (1) does not prevent the court from directing the use of a pre-recording procedure, video link separation procedure or screening procedure in respect of the giving of further evidence.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106T(3) and (4)
272.	Identification of accused
If the evidence of a witness in a criminal proceeding is given in a special hearing, and the identification of an accused is in issue, the witness cannot be required to be in the presence of the accused for that purpose —
(a)	for any longer than is necessary for that purpose; or
(b)	before the evidence of the witness (including cross-examination and re-examination) is completed.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106Q
273.	Warning to jury
A judge in any proceeding before a jury in which the evidence of a witness is given using a pre-recording procedure must instruct the jury that —
(a)	the procedure is a routine practice of the court; and
(b)	the jury should not draw an inference as to the guilt of an accused or the culpability of a party from the use of the procedure.
	Division 7 — Video link separation and screening procedures
274.	Application of Division
(1)	This Division applies despite the Criminal Procedure Act 2004 section 88.
(2)	This Division does not affect the power of a court to order the use of video link or a screening procedure under any other provision of this Act or any other written law.
275.	Terms used
In this Division —
excluded party has the meaning given in section 276(1)(b);
video link separation order has the meaning given in section 276(1).
276.	General provisions about video link separation orders
(1)	A video link separation order is an order of a court under section 277 or 278 directing that the whole or any part of the evidence of a witness in a proceeding be given using a video link separation procedure so that —
(a)	in a criminal proceeding — the witness gives the evidence in a separate place from an accused; or
(b)	in a civil proceeding — the witness gives the evidence in a separate place from any party the court considers appropriate to exclude (an excluded party).
(2)	A video link separation order may be made by a court —
(a)	on the application of the party proposing to call the witness; or
(b)	on the court’s own initiative.
(3)	A video link separation order may include any directions the court making the order thinks fit relating to the video link separation procedure, including, but not limited to, directions about the following —
(a)	the place at which the evidence of the witness must be given, or an accused or an excluded party must remain, while the evidence is given;
(b)	the persons who may be present in the same room as the witness when the witness’s evidence is given;
(c)	the persons, or classes of persons, who are authorised to have possession of the recording of evidence made when the witness’s evidence is given.
(4)	A video link separation order must not be inconsistent with the requirements for a video link separation procedure specified in this Division.
(5)	A video link separation order may be varied or revoked by further order of the court made —
(a)	on the application of a party; or
(b)	on the court’s own initiative.
(6)	A party to a proceeding must be served with a copy of an application by another party for —
(a)	a video link separation order; or
(b)	an order varying or revoking a video link separation order.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106N and 106R(4)
277.	Circumstances in which video link separation procedure is mandatory
(1)	A court must make a video link separation order directing that the whole of the evidence of a witness be given using a video link separation procedure —
(a)	if the proceeding is a criminal proceeding and the witness is a child (other than the accused) when the proceeding commences; or
(b)	if the proceeding is a child protection proceeding and the witness is the affected child; or
(c)	if the witness is a special witness in the proceeding (other than the accused); or
(d)	in any other circumstances specified in the regulations for the purposes of this paragraph.
(2)	Despite subsection (1), the court may decline to make a video link separation order if —
(a)	the court dispenses with the use of a video link separation procedure under section 311; or
(b)	the evidence of the witness is given using a pre-recording procedure; or
(c)	the court is satisfied that the necessary facilities for a video link separation procedure are not available and cannot reasonably be made available by the court.
(3)	If a court declines to make a video link separation order under subsection (2)(c), the court must —
(a)	instead of making the order, direct that the evidence of the witness be given using a screening procedure; and
(b)	consider whether any other arrangements could be made to support or assist the witness while giving evidence.
(4)	The court must not decline to make a video link separation order under subsection (2)(c) in the circumstances (if any) specified in the regulations for the purposes of this subsection.
(5)	A power to specify circumstances under subsection (1)(d) or (4) includes a power to specify circumstances by reference to any of the following —
(a)	the characteristics of the witness;
(b)	the type of proceeding;
(c)	the location of the proceeding.
(6)	In deciding whether the court is satisfied of the circumstances referred to in subsection (1)(d) or (4), the court may inform itself as it thinks fit.
278.	Other circumstances in which video link separation procedure may be used
(1)	A court may make a video link separation order directing that the whole or any part of the evidence of a witness be given using a video link separation procedure —
(a)	if the witness is an accused in a criminal proceeding in which there is more than 1 accused, and is a child when the proceeding commences; or
(b)	if the witness is an accused in a criminal proceeding in which there is more than 1 accused, and is a special witness; or
(c)	in any other circumstances specified in the regulations for the purposes of this paragraph; or
(d)	in any other circumstances that, in the opinion of the court, justify the use of a video link separation procedure.
(2)	A court must have regard to the interests of justice in deciding whether to make a video link separation order in respect of a witness under this section.
(3)	A power to specify circumstances under subsection (1)(c) includes a power to specify circumstances by reference to any of the following —
(a)	the characteristics of the witness;
(b)	the type of proceeding;
(c)	the location of the proceeding.
(4)	In deciding whether the court is satisfied of the circumstances referred to in subsection (1)(c) or (d), the court may inform itself as it thinks fit.
(5)	This section does not apply if a court is required to make a video link separation order under section 277.
279.	Access to legal counsel
An accused or an excluded party must at all times have the means of communicating with the person’s legal counsel while a witness gives evidence using a video link separation procedure.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106N(3)
280.	Evidence of witness to be recorded
(1)	If a witness gives evidence using a video link separation procedure, the evidence must be recorded on a visual recording.
(2)	A recording of evidence given by a witness using a video link separation procedure is admissible in the proceeding for which the evidence was obtained, and in any related proceeding, to the same extent as if it were given orally in the proceeding in accordance with the usual rules and practice of the court concerned.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106N(3a) and 106T(1) and (2)
281.	Use of screening procedure
(1)	If, instead of making a video link separation order, a court directs that the evidence of the witness be given using a screening procedure, the court must ensure that —
(a)	the screening procedure does not cause significant hardship to the witness; and
(b)	the witness is still able to access any person who has been approved by the court to provide support to the witness while giving evidence; and
(c)	the arrangements for the witness to give evidence are otherwise in the interests of justice.
(2)	The witness’s evidence must be recorded on a visual recording if the necessary facilities are available to do so.
(3)	A recording of evidence given by a witness while using a screening procedure is admissible in the proceeding for which the evidence was obtained, and in any related proceeding, to the same extent as if it were given orally in the proceeding in accordance with the usual rules and practice of the court concerned.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106N(4) and (5) and 106T(1) and (2)
282.	Identification of accused
If the evidence of a witness in a criminal proceeding is given using a video link separation procedure or a screening procedure under this Division, and the identification of an accused is in issue, the witness cannot be required to be in the presence of the accused for that purpose —
(a)	for any longer than is necessary for that purpose; or
(b)	before the evidence of the witness (including cross-examination and re-examination) is completed.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106Q
283.	Instruction to jury
A judge in any proceeding before a jury in which the evidence of a witness is given using a video link separation procedure or a screening procedure under this Division must instruct the jury that —
(a)	the procedure is a routine practice of the court; and
(b)	the jury should not draw an inference as to the guilt of an accused or the culpability of a party from the use of the procedure.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106P
	Division 8 — Witness intermediaries
284.	Terms used
In this Division —
accredited witness intermediary means a person who is accredited, in accordance with the regulations, to act as a witness intermediary;
witness intermediary service means the witness intermediary service referred to in section 285.
285.	Establishment of witness intermediary service
(1)	There is to be a witness intermediary service.
(2)	The witness intermediary service is comprised of persons who are accredited, in accordance with the regulations, to act as witness intermediaries.
(3)	The regulations may make provision for the establishment of the witness intermediary service, including for or with respect to the following —
(a)	accreditation as a witness intermediary, including any qualifications, training or experience required and any circumstances that disqualify a person from acting as a witness intermediary (either generally or in a particular case);
(b)	ongoing training and assessment of witness intermediaries.
286.	Proceedings for which witness intermediary service is available
(1)	The witness intermediary service is available for the following proceedings —
(a)	a criminal proceeding;
(b)	a child protection proceeding;
(c)	any other civil proceeding in the circumstances (if any) provided for by the regulations.
(2)	The regulations may provide that the witness intermediary service is available only for a proceeding in a specified area or areas.
(3)	For the purposes of subsection (2), an area may be specified by reference to —
(a)	the area in which an offence occurred or is alleged to have occurred; or
(b)	the area in which a court hears or is to hear a proceeding; or
(c)	any other matter.
287.	General functions of witness intermediary
(1)	The principal function of a witness intermediary is to facilitate communication to and by a witness for the purpose of ensuring that any evidence given by the witness is as complete, accurate and coherent as possible.
(2)	A witness intermediary is an officer of the court.
(3)	As an officer of the court, a witness intermediary has an overriding duty to the court to act honestly and impartially in the exercise of their functions.
(4)	The regulations may make further provision for the functions of a witness intermediary.
288.	Specific functions in proceedings
(1)	If there is a witness intermediary for a witness in a proceeding, any evidence given by the witness in the proceeding must be given in the presence of the witness intermediary.
(2)	A failure to comply with subsection (1) does not affect the admissibility of any evidence.
(3)	The witness intermediary may —
(a)	make recommendations to the court about how best to communicate with the witness; and
(b)	intervene in the questioning of the witness where a communication difficulty is identified; and
(c)	if requested by the judge, communicate and explain —
(i)	to the witness, questions put to the witness; and
(ii)	to the court, evidence given by the witness.
(4)	The witness intermediary must comply with any directions of the court in exercising the witness intermediary’s functions.
(5)	A witness intermediary who exercises functions in a courtroom or in connection with a special procedure for giving evidence must either take an oath, or make an affirmation, in a form directed by the court, that they will exercise their functions as a witness intermediary to the best of their ability.
(6)	The appointment of a witness intermediary for a witness does not prevent the witness —
(a)	having a support person under section 231 while giving evidence; or
(b)	using a communicator under section 233 to give evidence.
289.	Assessment of whether witness requires witness intermediary
(1)	In any proceeding for which the witness intermediary service is available, the court may request an assessment (a witness assessment) of whether a witness requires the assistance of a witness intermediary to give evidence in the proceeding.
(2)	A witness assessment must be carried out by an accredited witness intermediary.
(3)	A court may request a witness assessment —
(a)	on the application of a party; or
(b)	on the court’s own initiative.
(4)	The regulations may make further provision for witness assessments.
290.	Witnesses who are eligible for witness assessment
(1)	A court must request a witness assessment in relation to a witness —
(a)	if the proceeding is a criminal proceeding and the witness is a child (other than the accused) under 10 years of age when the proceeding commences; or
(b)	if the proceeding is a criminal proceeding for a sexual offence and the witness is a child who is the complainant.
(2)	Subsection (1)(b) does not apply if the court is satisfied that a witness assessment is not necessary.
(3)	The court must state its reasons for not requiring a witness assessment in a case referred to in subsection (1)(b).
(4)	A court may request a witness assessment in relation to a witness not referred to in subsection (1), other than an accused —
(a)	if the proceeding is a child protection proceeding and the witness is the affected child; or
(b)	if the witness is a special witness; or
(c)	if the witness appears to have specific communication needs and to require the assistance of a witness intermediary to give evidence that is as complete, accurate and coherent as possible; or
(d)	if the court otherwise considers it appropriate.
(5)	The regulations may specify other circumstances in which the court may request a witness assessment in relation to a witness.
(6)	The court, when deciding whether to request a witness assessment (other than as required by subsection (1)(a)) —
(a)	must have regard to the submissions of the parties and to the views of the witness; and
(b)	may inform itself as it thinks fit.
291.	Appointment of witness intermediary in proceeding
(1)	A court must appoint an accredited witness intermediary as a witness intermediary for a witness in a proceeding if —
(a)	the witness intermediary service is available for the proceeding; and
(b)	a witness assessment requested by the court indicates that the witness requires the assistance of a witness intermediary to give evidence in the proceeding; and
(c)	the court is satisfied, having regard to the witness assessment, that the witness requires the assistance of a witness intermediary to give evidence in the proceeding.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not apply if the court is satisfied that —
(a)	there is no witness intermediary available to meet the needs of the witness; or
(b)	it is otherwise impractical to appoint, or utilise the services of, a witness intermediary.
(3)	If a witness assessment indicates that a witness who is a child when the assessment is made requires the assistance of a witness intermediary to give evidence in the proceeding, the fact that the witness reaches 18 years of age during the proceeding does not affect that assessment.
(4)	The regulations may make further provision for the appointment of a witness intermediary in a proceeding, including the duration of the appointment.
292.	Witness who declines witness assessment or services of witness intermediary
(1)	Despite any other provision of this Division, a court may decide not to request a witness assessment or to dispense with the services of a witness intermediary if satisfied that the witness has decided to decline the witness assessment or the services of a witness intermediary.
(2)	The court must be satisfied that —
(a)	the witness understands their decision and its effect; and
(b)	the witness’s decision was made freely and voluntarily.
(3)	A witness must not be questioned in a proceeding about a decision to decline a witness assessment or to give evidence without the assistance of a witness intermediary except by or with the approval of the court for the purposes of satisfying this section.
(4)	In a criminal proceeding before a jury, the judge, the prosecutor, the accused or the accused’s legal counsel must not comment to the jury about a decision by a witness to decline a witness assessment or to give evidence without the assistance of a witness intermediary.
(5)	Subsection (4) does not prevent a judge from directing the jury about a contravention of that subsection by the prosecutor, the accused or the accused’s legal counsel if it is in the interests of justice to do so.
	Division 9 — Communication directions
293.	Term used: communication directions
In this Division —
communication directions has the meaning given in section 294(1).
294.	Communication directions relating to witnesses
(1)	A court may give directions (communication directions) in relation to a witness for the purpose of ensuring that the communication, support or other needs of the witness in a proceeding are met in a manner that is fair and effective.
(2)	Without limiting subsection (1), the court may give communication directions relating to any of the following matters —
(a)	the manner in which a witness must be questioned;
(b)	the duration of questioning and breaks in questioning;
(c)	the questions that may, or must not be, put to a witness (including by giving directions about disallowable questions under section 50);
(d)	if there are more than 2 parties — the allocation among them of topics about which a witness may be questioned;
(e)	the use of models, plans, maps or similar aids to question a witness;
(f)	the cross-examination of a witness;
(g)	if a party intends to lead evidence that contradicts or challenges the evidence of a witness or that otherwise discredits a witness — that the party is not obliged to put that evidence in its entirety to the witness in cross-examination.
(3)	If a court requests a witness assessment for a witness, the court must have regard to that witness assessment in deciding whether to give any communication directions.
295.	Ground rules hearing
(1)	A court may hold a hearing (a ground rules hearing) for the purposes of —
(a)	considering the communication, support or other needs of a witness; and
(b)	deciding whether any communication directions should be made to meet those needs fairly and effectively.
(2)	A ground rules hearing may be held —
(a)	on the application of a party; or
(b)	on the court’s own initiative.
(3)	An application for a ground rules hearing may be made to the court orally or in writing.
(4)	A court must hold a ground rules hearing in relation to a witness if a witness intermediary has been appointed for the witness, unless subsection (5) applies.
(5)	A court may give communication directions in relation to a witness, without holding a ground rules hearing, if —
(a)	the communication directions have been agreed by the parties and the witness intermediary (if any) for the witness; and
(b)	the court is satisfied that those communication directions are appropriate.
296.	Timing of ground rules hearing
(1)	If a ground rules hearing is to be held, it must, if practicable, be held a reasonable period before the commencement of any hearing at which the witness is to give evidence.
(2)	The court may extend the time for holding the ground rules hearing if the court considers that it is in the interests of justice to do so.
(3)	The court may extend the time under subsection (2) —
(a)	before or after the time expires; and
(b)	more than once.
297.	Conduct of ground rules hearing
(1)	The following persons must attend a ground rules hearing —
(a)	in a criminal proceeding — a person acting for the prosecution and the legal counsel acting for the accused or, if the accused is unrepresented, the accused;
(b)	in a civil proceeding — the legal counsel of the parties or, if a party is unrepresented, the party (other than the affected child in a child protection proceeding);
(c)	any witness intermediary for the witness in the proceeding.
(2)	A witness is not required to attend a ground rules hearing.
(3)	The court may order that a ground rules hearing be held in the absence of a witness if a witness intermediary has been appointed for the witness.
(4)	Rules of court may provide for ground rules hearings.
298.	Other powers of court not affected
This Division does not affect any other power of a court to give directions about the questioning of a witness.
	Division 10 — Access to and use of protected recordings
299.	Terms used
In this Division —
Director of Public Prosecutions means —
(a)	the Director of Public Prosecutions appointed under the Director of Public Prosecutions Act 1991 section 5; or
(b)	a person acting in that office under section 8 of that Act;
protected recording means —
(a)	a visual recording or audio recording of an out-of-court representation made to a police officer of this State, being a representation that may be admitted into evidence under Division 3 (whether or not it has been admitted under that Division); or
(b)	a recorded statement that is admissible as evidence under Division 4 or created for use as evidence under Division 4 (whether or not it has been admitted under that Division); or
(c)	a recorded interview that is admissible as evidence under Division 5 or made for use as evidence under Division 5 (whether or not it has been admitted under that Division); or
(d)	a visual recording or audio recording of evidence given under a special procedure for giving evidence.
300.	Possessing or supplying protected recordings
(1)	A person must not, without authority —
(a)	be in possession of any protected recording; or
(b)	supply or offer to supply any protected recording to any person.
Penalty for this subsection: imprisonment for 2 years or a fine of $24 000.
(2)	A person has authority for the purposes of subsection (1) only if the person is —
(a)	a police officer acting in the course of the police officer’s official duties; or
(b)	the Director of Public Prosecutions or a person acting under the authority of the Director of Public Prosecutions; or
(c)	legal counsel acting for or representing the State; or
(d)	legal counsel for a party to a proceeding to which the protected recording relates, other than the State; or
(e)	a person engaged by a person referred to in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d) acting for a purpose connected with the conduct or defence of a proceeding to which the protected recording relates; or
(f)	a public official acting in good faith for a purpose connected with the person’s duties as a public official; or
(g)	acting as authorised by a court; or
(h)	acting as authorised by this Act or regulations made for the purposes of this paragraph; or
(i)	acting as authorised by the Criminal Investigation Act 2006.
(3)	Subsection (2)(d) and (e) do not apply if the protected recording is —
(a)	a recorded interview; or
(b)	any visual recording or audio recording of evidence that incorporates a recorded interview.
(4)	A person ceases to have authority under subsection (2)(d) for the purposes of subsection (1) —
(a)	if the person ceases to act for the party to the proceeding before it is completed — at the end of the period of 10 days beginning on the day after the day on which the person ceased to act for the party to the proceeding; or
(b)	if paragraph (a) does not apply — at the end of the period of 10 days beginning on the day after the expiry of the time allowed for commencing an appeal in relation to the proceeding.
(5)	A person ceases to have authority under subsection (2)(e) for the purposes of subsection (1) —
(a)	if the person ceases to be engaged by the person before the proceeding is completed — at the end of the period of 10 days beginning on the day after the day on which the person ceased to be engaged by the person; or
(b)	if the person is engaged by legal counsel referred to in subsection (2)(d) who ceases to act for the party to the proceeding before it is completed — at the end of the period of 10 days beginning on the day after the day on which the person becomes aware that legal counsel has ceased to act for the party to the proceeding; or
(c)	if paragraphs (a) and (b) do not apply — at the end of the period of 10 days beginning on the day after the expiry of the time allowed for commencing an appeal in relation to the proceeding.
(6)	For the purposes of subsections (4)(b) and (5)(c), it is irrelevant that a person may apply, or has applied, to a court for an extension of the time allowed for commencing an appeal in relation to the proceeding.
(7)	If a person who is legal counsel for a party to a proceeding is given a protected recording that relates to the proceeding, the person must, before the person ceases to have authority under subsection (2)(d) to be in possession of the protected recording, take all reasonable steps to ensure that it is returned to —
(a)	a person referred to in subsection (2)(a), (b) or (c) acting for or representing, or who acted for or represented, the State in the proceeding; or
(b)	if there is no person referred to in subsection (2)(a), (b) or (c) acting for or representing, or who acted for or represented, the State in the proceeding — the court that is dealing with, or that dealt with, the proceeding.
Penalty for this subsection: a fine of $10 000.
(8)	A direction under section 308(1) may provide that 1 or more of subsections (3) to (7) do not apply in relation to a protected recording (with or without making alternative provision).
(9)	Subsection (7) does not apply if the person has authority under subsection (2)(g) or (h) to possess the protected recording.
(10)	A person is not entitled to be in possession of any protected recording relating to an offence of which the person is accused and, accordingly, has no authority to possess, supply, or offer to supply that protected recording.
(11)	Subsection (10) continues to apply after any prosecution of the offence has been completed or terminated.
(12)	This section does not prevent an accused from being in possession of a protected recording that is a recording of evidence given by that accused.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106MA
301.	Altering or destroying original protected recording
(1)	A person must not, without authority, alter or destroy or permit another person to alter or destroy an original version of a protected recording.
Penalty for this subsection: imprisonment for 2 years or a fine of $24 000.
(2)	A person has authority for the purposes of subsection (1) only if the person is —
(a)	a public official acting in good faith for a purpose connected with the person’s duties as a public official; or
(b)	acting as authorised by a court; or
(c)	acting as authorised by this Act or regulations made for the purposes of this paragraph; or
(d)	acting as authorised by the Criminal Investigation Act 2006.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106MA
302.	Altering copy of protected recording
A person must not alter a copy of any protected recording unless the person has authority to be in possession of the protected recording.
Penalty: imprisonment for 2 years or a fine of $24 000.
303.	Copying protected recording
(1)	A person must not, without authority, copy or permit another person to copy any protected recording.
Penalty for this subsection: imprisonment for 2 years or a fine of $24 000.
(2)	A person has authority for the purposes of subsection (1) only if the person is —
(a)	a police officer acting in the course of the police officer’s official duties; or
(b)	the Director of Public Prosecutions or a person acting under the authority of the Director of Public Prosecutions; or
(c)	legal counsel acting for or representing the State; or
(d)	a public official acting in good faith for a purpose connected with the person’s duties as a public official; or
(e)	acting as authorised by a court; or
(f)	acting as authorised by this Act or regulations made for the purposes of this paragraph; or
(g)	acting as authorised by the Criminal Investigation Act 2006.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106MA
304.	Playing protected recordings
(1)	A person must not, without authority, play any protected recording.
Penalty for this subsection: imprisonment for 2 years or a fine of $24 000.
(2)	A person has authority for the purposes of subsection (1) only if the person —
(a)	plays the protected recording for a purpose connected with the conduct or defence of a proceeding to which the protected recording relates; or
(b)	is a police officer acting in the course of the police officer’s official duties; or
(c)	is a public official acting in good faith for purposes connected with the person’s duties as a public official; or
(d)	is acting as authorised by a court; or
(e)	is acting as authorised by this Act or regulations made for the purposes of this paragraph.
(3)	This section does not authorise —
(a)	an accused to play any protected recording relating to the proceeding in which the person is accused; or
(b)	any other person to play, in the presence of the accused, the protected recording for a purpose connected with the conduct or defence of the proceeding unless the person, or an employee or agent of the person, is present with the accused for the entire period during which the recording is played.
(4)	Subsection (3) does not apply to a protected recording that is a recording of evidence given by the accused if it is that accused —
(a)	who plays the recording; or
(b)	in whose presence the recording is played.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106MA
305.	Protected recordings may be played for instructional purposes
(1)	A protected recording may be played to any of the following persons for the purposes of instruction —
(a)	a police officer or police trainee;
(b)	an officer of the Commission (as defined in the Corruption, Crime and Misconduct Act 2003 section 3(1));
(c)	a lawyer or a person studying to be a lawyer;
(d)	a person prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this section.
(2)	A protected recording may be played under subsection (1) only if —
(a)	all proceedings in relation to the subject matter of the protected recording have concluded; and
(b)	all reasonable measures are taken to prevent the identification of the person being recorded, interviewed or giving evidence in the protected recording; and
(c)	any further requirements specified in the regulations relating to the use or playing of the protected recording for instructional purposes are satisfied.
306.	Publication of protected recordings prohibited
(1)	A person must not publish any protected recording except in accordance with the approval of the Supreme Court.
Penalty for this subsection: imprisonment for 2 years or a fine of $100 000.
(2)	The Supreme Court may approve the publication of a protected recording only if satisfied that exceptional circumstances justify approval being given.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106MB
307.	Playing or tendering altered versions of protected recordings in proceedings
(1)	A party proposing to play or tender any protected recording in a proceeding must notify the court if the protected recording has been altered from the original version of the protected recording.
(2)	A party proposing to tender a transcript of a protected recording in a proceeding must notify the court if the transcript has been altered from the original version of the protected recording.
(3)	A protected recording, or a transcript of a protected recording, that has been altered from the original version of the protected recording may be played or tendered to the court only with the leave of the court.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106HB
308.	Court may give directions about protected recordings
(1)	The Supreme Court, the Family Court, the District Court, the Magistrates Court, the Children’s Court or any court that admits a protected recording as evidence or directs the use of a special procedure for giving evidence may give directions as to the possession, supply, copying, editing, destruction or playing of a protected recording.
(2)	A court must not authorise a person to be in possession of a protected recording if the protected recording relates to an offence of which the person is accused.
(3)	Subsection (2) continues to apply after any prosecution of the offence has been completed or terminated.
(4)	Subsection (2) does not apply to the possession by an accused of a protected recording of evidence given by that accused.
	Division 11 — Miscellaneous
309.	Hearing to consider orders that should be made
(1)	In any proceeding in which it is likely that the court will be required or asked to do any of the following in relation to a witness, the party who proposes to call the witness concerned must apply for a directions hearing for the purpose of having the matter dealt with before the proceeding —
(a)	decide whether the witness must be treated as a special witness or should be declared to be a special witness;
(b)	make any order or direction in relation to an out-of-court representation, recorded statement or recorded interview of the witness;
(c)	make any order or direction, or give any approval, in relation to a special procedure for giving evidence, as it affects the witness;
(d)	hold a ground rules hearing in relation to the witness;
(e)	request a witness assessment in relation to the witness.
(2)	Rules of court may provide for directions hearings under this section.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106S
310.	Disclosure of protected communications in connection with support measures
(1)	In this section —
Department means the department of the Public Service principally assisting in the administration of this Act;
Justice document means a document that records any report, opinion, advice, recommendation or correspondence relating to a sexual offence complainant made by an officer or employee of, or person engaged by, the Department in connection with a service offered to witnesses in criminal proceedings or victims of crime.
(2)	The prosecutor in a criminal proceeding may, without the leave of the court, tender a Justice document in support of the prosecutor’s submission at any of the following hearings, even if the document records a protected communication —
(a)	a hearing to determine whether the sexual offence complainant should be treated as or declared to be a special witness;
(b)	a hearing to determine whether the court should make any order or direction in relation to a special procedure for giving evidence as it affects the sexual offence complainant.
(3)	Section 166 does not prevent the disclosure or admission of a Justice document for the purpose of a hearing mentioned in subsection (2).
(4)	If a Justice document that records a protected communication is admitted for the purpose of a hearing mentioned in subsection (2), section 174 applies in the same way as it applies to the disclosure of a document under Part 4 Division 3.
Example for this subsection:
The court may make an order suppressing the publication of all or part of the Justice document to protect the safety and welfare of the sexual offence complainant.
(5)	This section does not affect the application of Part 4 Division 3 to the disclosure or admission of a Justice document for the purpose of any other part of the criminal proceeding.
311.	Dispensing with special procedure for giving evidence
(1)	A court may, by order, dispense with the use of a special procedure for giving evidence if the court is satisfied that the witness is able to give evidence, and consents to giving evidence, without using the special procedure for giving evidence.
(2)	The court must not make the order unless the court is satisfied of the following matters —
(a)	that the witness understands their decision and its effect;
(b)	that the decision was made freely and voluntarily.
(3)	In deciding whether to make the order, the court may inform itself as it thinks fit.
(4)	A witness must not be questioned in a proceeding about a decision to give evidence without using a special procedure for giving evidence except by or with the approval of the court for the purposes of satisfying this section.
(5)	In a criminal proceeding before a jury, the judge, the prosecutor, the accused or the accused’s legal counsel must not comment to the jury about a decision by a witness to give evidence without using a special procedure for giving evidence.
(6)	Subsection (5) does not prevent a judge from directing the jury about a contravention of that subsection by the prosecutor, the accused or the accused’s legal counsel if it is in the interests of justice to do so.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106R(8)
	Part 8 — Proof
	Division 1 — Standard of proof
312.	Civil proceeding: standard of proof
(1)	In a civil proceeding, the court must find the case of a party proved if it is satisfied that the case has been proved on the balance of probabilities.
(2)	Without limiting the matters that the court may take into account in deciding whether it is satisfied, it must take into account —
(a)	the nature of the cause of action or defence; and
(b)	the nature of the subject matter of the proceeding; and
(c)	the gravity of the matters alleged.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 140
313.	Criminal proceeding: standard of proof
(1)	In a criminal proceeding, the court must not find the case of the prosecution proved unless it is satisfied that it has been proved beyond reasonable doubt.
(2)	In a criminal proceeding, the court must find the case of an accused proved if it is satisfied that the case has been proved on the balance of probabilities.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 141
314.	Admissibility of evidence: standard of proof
(1)	Except as otherwise provided by this Act, in any proceeding the court must find that the facts necessary for deciding any of the following questions have been proved if it is satisfied that they have been proved on the balance of probabilities —
(a)	a question whether evidence should be admitted or not admitted, whether in the exercise of a discretion or not;
(b)	any other question arising under this Act.
(2)	In determining whether it is satisfied, the matters that the court must take into account include —
(a)	the importance of the evidence in the proceeding; and
(b)	the gravity of the matters alleged in relation to the question.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 142
	Division 2 — Corroboration
315.	Corroboration not required
(1)	It is not necessary that evidence on which a party relies be corroborated.
(2)	Despite any rule, whether of law or practice, to the contrary, if there is a jury, the judge must not —
(a)	warn the jury that it is dangerous to act on uncorroborated evidence or give a warning to the same or similar effect; or
(b)	direct the jury regarding the absence of corroboration.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 106D
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 164
	Division 3 — Warnings and information
316.	Term used: delay
In this Division —
delay, in making a complaint, includes —
(a)	a failure to pursue or to continue to pursue a complaint in a timely manner; and
(b)	a failure to make a complaint at the first opportunity, or on a subsequent opportunity, to complain.
317.	Unreliable evidence
(1)	This section applies to evidence of a kind that may be unreliable, including the following kinds of evidence —
(a)	evidence in relation to which Part 3 Division 2 or 4 applies;
(b)	identification evidence;
(c)	evidence given in a criminal proceeding by a witness, being a witness who might reasonably be supposed to have been criminally concerned in the events giving rise to the proceeding;
(d)	evidence given in a criminal proceeding by a witness who is a prison informer;
(e)	oral evidence of questioning by an investigating official of an accused that is questioning recorded in writing that has not been signed, or otherwise acknowledged in writing, by the accused;
(f)	in a proceeding against the estate of a deceased person — evidence adduced by or on behalf of a person seeking relief in the proceeding that is evidence about a matter about which the deceased person could have given evidence if the deceased person were alive.
(2)	In a proceeding before a jury, the judge must do the following if a party requests it —
(a)	warn the jury that the evidence may be unreliable;
(b)	inform the jury of matters that may cause it to be unreliable;
(c)	warn the jury of the need for caution in determining whether to accept the evidence and the weight to be given to it.
(3)	The judge need not comply with subsection (2) if satisfied there is good reason for not complying.
(4)	It is not necessary that a particular form of words be used in giving the warning or information.
(5)	This section does not affect any other power of the judge to give a warning to, or to inform, the jury.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 165
318.	Warnings about evidence given by children
(1)	A judge in any proceeding in which evidence is given by a child before a jury must not do any of the following —
(a)	warn the jury, or suggest to the jury, that children as a class are unreliable witnesses;
(b)	warn the jury, or suggest to the jury, that the evidence of children as a class is inherently less credible or reliable, or requires more careful scrutiny, than the evidence of adults;
(c)	give a warning, or make a suggestion, to the jury about the unreliability of the particular child’s evidence solely on account of the age of the child.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not prevent a judge from —
(a)	informing the jury that the evidence of the particular child may be unreliable and the reasons why it may be unreliable; and
(b)	warning or informing the jury of the need for caution in determining whether to accept the evidence of the particular child and the weight to be given to it.
(3)	A judge may exercise the power conferred by subsection (2) only if —
(a)	a party requests it; and
(b)	the party satisfies the court that there are circumstances (other than solely the age of the child) particular to the child that affect the reliability of the child’s evidence and that warrant the giving of a warning or the information.
(4)	This section does not affect any other power of a judge to give a warning to, or to inform, the jury.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 165A
319.	Warnings about delays causing forensic disadvantage
(1)	A rule of law or practice that requires a judge in a criminal proceeding to give a warning of a kind known as a Longman warning is abolished.
Note for this subsection:
See Longman v The Queen (1989) 168 CLR 79.
(2)	If, on application by an accused in a criminal proceeding before a jury, the court is satisfied that the accused has suffered a significant forensic disadvantage because of delay, the judge must —
(a)	explain to the jury the nature of the forensic disadvantage; and
(b)	direct that the jury must take the forensic disadvantage into account when scrutinising the evidence.
(3)	The judge need not comply with subsection (2) if satisfied there is good reason for not complying.
(4)	The mere fact of a delay is not sufficient to establish a significant forensic disadvantage.
(5)	An explanation or direction under subsection (2) —
(a)	must be specific to the circumstances of the particular case; and
(b)	must explain to the jury that the forensic disadvantage suffered by the accused was not merely due to the delay; and
(c)	must not take the form of a warning; and
(d)	must not warn the jury, or suggest to the jury, that because of the delay or the forensic disadvantage suffered by the accused —
(i)	it is dangerous or unsafe to convict; or
(ii)	evidence of a complainant should be scrutinised with great care.
(6)	This section does not affect any other power of a judge to give a warning to, or to inform, the jury.
320.	Prohibited directions about delays in complaint about sexual and family violence offences
(1)	In any criminal proceeding before a jury for a sexual offence or a family violence offence, if evidence is adduced that suggests that a complainant delayed in making a complaint about the offence or failed to make a complaint about the offence, there is no requirement that the judge warn or direct the jury that the delay or failure affects the credibility of the complainant.
(2)	A judge must not warn the jury, direct the jury or otherwise suggest to the jury that a delay in making a complaint or a failure to make a complaint about a sexual offence or a family violence offence affects the credibility of the complainant except as provided for by subsection (3).
(3)	A judge may warn or direct a jury that a delay in making a complaint or a failure to make a complaint affects the credibility of a complainant if —
(a)	the accused requests the warning or direction; and
(b)	the court is satisfied that the warning or direction is justified in the particular circumstances of the case.
(4)	In giving any warning or direction under subsection (3), the judge must not do any of the following —
(a)	warn the jury, or suggest to the jury, that it is dangerous or unsafe to convict because of the delay in making, or failure to make, a complaint;
(b)	warn the jury, or suggest to the jury, that because of the delay in making, or failure to make, a complaint, the evidence of the complainant should be scrutinised with great care.
(5)	This section does not affect any other power of a judge to give a warning to, or to inform, the jury.
321.	Required direction for delays in complaint about sexual and family violence offences
(1)	In a criminal proceeding before a jury for a sexual offence or a family violence offence, the judge must give the jury a direction under this section —
(a)	if the judge considers that there is likely to be evidence adduced in the trial that suggests that the complainant delayed in making a complaint or did not make a complaint about the offence; or
(b)	if at any other time evidence is adduced in the trial or a comment is made to the jury that suggests that the complainant delayed in making a complaint or did not make a complaint about the offence.
(2)	If subsection (1)(a) applies, the direction must be given before the evidence is adduced and may be given before any evidence is adduced in the trial.
(3)	If subsection (1)(b) applies, the direction must be given as soon as practicable.
(4)	The judge must direct the jury that experience shows that —
(a)	people may react differently to sexual offences or family violence (as the case requires) and there is no typical, proper or normal response to a sexual offence or family violence; and
(b)	some people may complain immediately to the first person they see, while others may not complain for some time and others may never make a complaint; and
(c)	delay in making a complaint about a sexual offence or family violence is a common occurrence.
(5)	In the case of family violence, the judge may also include in the direction any matter that could be included in a direction on family violence under section 144(1)(b), and section 144(3) applies in relation to that part of the direction in the same way as it applies to a direction on family violence.
(6)	The judge may repeat a direction under this section at any time during the criminal proceeding.
(7)	This section does not affect any other power of a judge to give a warning to, or to inform, the jury.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 36BD
	Division 4 — Requests between parties relating to evidence
322.	Application of Division
This Division applies to a civil proceeding.
323.	Term used: request
In this Division —
request means a request that a party (the requesting party) makes to another party to do 1 or more of the following —
(a)	to produce to the requesting party the whole or a part of a specified document or thing;
(b)	to permit the requesting party, adequately and in an appropriate way, to examine, test or copy the whole or a part of a specified document or thing;
(c)	to call as a witness a specified person believed to be concerned in the production or maintenance of a specified document or thing;
(d)	to call as a witness a specified person in whose possession or under whose control a specified document or thing is believed to be or to have been at any time;
(e)	in relation to a document of a kind referred to in section 6(1)(b) or (c) — to permit the requesting party, adequately and in an appropriate way, to examine and test the document and the manner in which it was produced and has been kept;
(f)	in relation to evidence of a previous representation — to call as a witness the person who made the previous representation;
(g)	in relation to evidence that a person has been convicted of an offence, being evidence that can be admitted or used in the proceeding under Part 3 Division 5 — to call as a witness a person who gave evidence in the proceeding in which the person was convicted of the offence.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 166
324.	Requests may be made about certain matters
A party may make a reasonable request to another party for the purpose of determining a question that relates to any of the following —
(a)	a previous representation;
(b)	evidence of a conviction of a person for an offence;
(c)	the authenticity, identity or admissibility of a document or thing.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 167
325.	Time limits for making requests
(1)	If a party has given to another party written notice of its intention to adduce evidence of a previous representation, the other party may make a request to the party relating to the representation only if the request is made within 21 days after the notice was given.
(2)	Despite subsection (1), the court may give the other party leave to make a request relating to the representation after the end of the 21-day period if it is satisfied that there is good reason to do so.
(3)	If a party has given to another party written notice of its intention to adduce evidence of a person’s conviction of an offence in order to prove a fact in issue, the other party may make a request relating to evidence of the conviction only if the request is made within 21 days after the notice was given.
(4)	Despite subsection (3), the court may give the other party leave to make a request relating to evidence of the conviction after the end of the 21-day period if it is satisfied that there is good reason to do so.
(5)	If a party has served on another party a copy of a document that it intends to tender in evidence, the other party may make a request relating to the document only if the request is made within 21 days after service of the copy.
(6)	If the copy of the document served under subsection (5) is accompanied by, or has endorsed on it, a notice stating that the document is to be tendered to prove the contents of another document, the other party may make a request relating to the other document only if the request is made within 21 days after service of the copy.
(7)	Despite subsections (5) and (6), the court may give the other party leave to make a request relating to the document, or other document, after the end of the 21-day period if it is satisfied that there is good reason to do so.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 168
326.	Failure or refusal to comply with requests
(1)	If a party has, without reasonable cause, failed or refused to comply with a request, the court may, on application by the other party, make 1 or more of the following orders —
(a)	an order directing the party to comply with the request;
(b)	an order that the party produce a specified document or thing, or call as a witness a specified person;
(c)	an order that the evidence in relation to which the request was made must not be admitted in evidence;
(d)	any order with respect to adjournment or costs as is just.
(2)	If the party has, within a reasonable time after receiving the request, informed the other party that it refuses to comply with the request, any application under subsection (1) by the other party must be made within a reasonable time after being informed.
(3)	The court may, on application, direct that evidence in relation to which a request was made must not be admitted in evidence if an order made by it under subsection (1)(a) or (b) is not complied with.
(4)	Without limiting the circumstances that may constitute reasonable cause for a party to fail or refuse to comply with a request, it is reasonable cause to fail or refuse to comply with a request if —
(a)	the document or thing to be produced is not available to the party; or
(b)	the existence and contents of the document are not in issue in the proceeding in which evidence of the document is proposed to be adduced; or
(c)	the person to be called as a witness is not available.
(5)	Without limiting the matters that the court may take into account in relation to the exercise of a power under subsection (1), it must take into account —
(a)	the importance in the proceeding of the evidence in relation to which the request was made; and
(b)	whether there is likely to be a dispute about the matter to which the evidence relates; and
(c)	whether there is a reasonable doubt as to the authenticity or accuracy of the evidence that is, or the document the contents of which are, sought to be proved; and
(d)	whether there is a reasonable doubt as to the authenticity of the document or thing that is sought to be tendered; and
(e)	if the request relates to evidence of a previous representation — whether there is a reasonable doubt as to the accuracy of the representation or of the evidence on which it was based; and
(f)	if the request relates to evidence that a person has been convicted of an offence and the request is to call as a witness a person who gave evidence in the proceeding in which the person was convicted — whether another person is available to give evidence about the conviction or the facts that were in issue in the proceeding in which the conviction was obtained; and
(g)	whether compliance with the request would involve undue expense or delay or would not be reasonably practicable; and
(h)	whether compliance with the request would involve an unwarranted breach of the privacy of a person or cause distress, humiliation or embarrassment to a person; and
(i)	the nature of the proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 169
	Part 9 — Judicial notice and facilitation of proof
	Division 1 — Matters of common knowledge
327.	Judicial notice to be taken of matters of common knowledge
(1)	Proof is not required about knowledge that is not reasonably open to question and that is —
(a)	common knowledge in the locality in which the proceeding is being held or generally; or
(b)	capable of verification by reference to a document the authority of which cannot reasonably be questioned.
(2)	The judge may acquire knowledge of the kind referred to in subsection (1) in any way the judge thinks fit.
(3)	The court (including, if there is a jury, the jury) must take knowledge of the kind referred to in subsection (1) into account.
(4)	The judge must give a party an opportunity to make submissions, and to refer to relevant information, relating to the acquiring or taking into account of knowledge of the kind referred to in subsection (1) as is necessary to ensure that the party is not unfairly prejudiced.
(5)	This section does not exclude the application of the principles and rules of common law and equity relating to the effect of a certificate given by or on behalf of the Crown with respect to a matter of international affairs.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 144 and 145
	Division 2 — Proof of laws
328.	Judicial notice to be taken of Australian laws
(1)	Proof is not required about the provisions and coming into operation (in whole or in part) of —
(a)	a Commonwealth Act, a State Act, an Act or Ordinance of a Territory or an Imperial Act in force in Australia; or
(b)	a regulation, rule or by-law made, or purporting to be made, under such an Act or Ordinance; or
(c)	a proclamation or order of the Governor-General, the Governor of a State or the Administrator or Executive of a Territory made, or purporting to be made, under such an Act or Ordinance; or
(d)	an instrument of a legislative character (including rules of court) made, or purporting to be made, under such an Act or Ordinance, being an instrument that is required by or under a law to be published, or the making of which is required by or under a law to be notified, in any government or official gazette (by whatever name called) or any government or official website.
(2)	A judge may inform themselves about any matter referred to in subsection (1) in any way that the judge thinks fit.
(3)	A reference in this section to an Act, being an Act of an Australian Parliament, includes a reference to a private Act passed by that Parliament.
(4)	This section does not exclude the application of the principles and rules of common law and equity relating to the effect of a certificate given by or on behalf of the Crown with respect to a matter of international affairs.
(5)	This section extends to a proceeding before a person acting judicially.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 143 and 145
329.	Proof of laws of foreign countries
(1)	Evidence of a statute, proclamation, treaty or act of state of a foreign country may be adduced in a proceeding by producing —
(a)	a document, containing the statute, proclamation, treaty or act of state, that purports to have been printed or published by the government or official printer of the country or by authority of the government or administration of the country; or
(b)	a document, containing the statute, proclamation, treaty or act of state, that appears to the court to be a reliable source of information; or
(c)	a document that is or would be used in the courts of the country to inform the courts about, or to prove, the statute, proclamation, treaty or act of state; or
(d)	a copy of the statute, proclamation, treaty or act of state that is proved to be an examined copy.
(2)	A reference in this section to a statute of a foreign country includes a reference to the following —
(a)	a regulation, rule or by-law of the foreign country;
(b)	an instrument of a legislative character (including rules of court) made under a statute of the foreign country.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 174
330.	Evidence of law reports of foreign countries
(1)	Evidence of the unwritten or common law of a foreign country may be adduced by producing a document containing reports of judgments of courts of the country if the document is or would be used in the courts of the country to inform the courts about the unwritten or common law of the country.
(2)	Evidence of the interpretation of a statute of a foreign country may be adduced by producing a document containing reports of judgments of courts of the country if the document is or would be used in the courts of the country to inform the courts about the interpretation of the statute.
(3)	The court may, but is not required to, receive as evidence of the unwritten or common law of a foreign country, or of the interpretation of a statute of a foreign country, any treatise or explanation relating to that law contained in a text book or other published document about the laws of that foreign country.
(4)	A reference in this section to a statute of a foreign country includes a reference to the following —
(a)	a regulation, rule or by-law of the foreign country;
(b)	an instrument of a legislative character (including rules of court) made under a statute of the foreign country.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 71
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 175
331.	Questions of foreign law to be decided by judge
If, in a proceeding in which there is a jury, it is necessary to ascertain the law of another country that is applicable to the facts of the case, any question as to the effect of the evidence adduced with respect to that law must be decided by the judge alone.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 176
	Division 3 — Proof of public documents and other official matters
332.	Presumption as to authenticity of official publications
(1)	It is presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that a document that purports to be any of the following is what it purports to be and was published on the day on which it purports to have been published —
(a)	a government or official gazette (by whatever name called) of this State, the Commonwealth, another State, a Territory or a foreign country;
(b)	a document printed or published by the Government Printer or by the government or official printer of the Commonwealth, another State or a Territory;
(c)	a document printed or published by authority of the government or administration of this State, the Commonwealth, another State, a Territory or a foreign country.
(2)	This section extends to a proceeding before a person acting judicially.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 153
333.	Presumption as to regularity of acts notified in official publications
(1)	If there is produced to a court a document to which this section applies, and the doing of any of the following acts is notified or published in the document, it is presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that the act was duly done and, if the day on which the act was done appears in the document, that it was done on that day —
(a)	an act of the Governor-General or of the Governor of a State or the Administrator of a Territory;
(b)	an act of a person authorised or empowered to do the act by an Australian law or a law of a foreign country.
(2)	This section applies to the following documents —
(a)	a copy of a government or official gazette (by whatever name called) of this State, the Commonwealth, another State, a Territory or a foreign country;
(b)	a document that purports to have been printed or published by the Government Printer or by the government or official printer of the Commonwealth, another State or a Territory;
(c)	a document that purports to have been printed or published by authority of the government or administration of this State, the Commonwealth, another State, a Territory or a foreign country.
(3)	This section extends to a proceeding before a person acting judicially.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 153
334.	Presumption as to authenticity of Parliamentary documents
(1)	It is presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that a document purporting to have been printed or published by authority of an Australian Parliament, a House of an Australian Parliament, a committee of a House of an Australian Parliament or a committee of an Australian Parliament —
(a)	is what it purports to be; and
(b)	was published on the day on which it purports to have been published.
(2)	This section extends to a proceeding before a person acting judicially.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 154
335.	Presumption as to authenticity of Commonwealth records and public documents
(1)	In this section —
Commonwealth record has the meaning given in the Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) Dictionary Part 1.
(2)	Evidence of a Commonwealth record or of a public document of this State, another State or a Territory may be adduced by producing a document that —
(a)	purports to be a Commonwealth record or public document and to be signed or sealed by —
(i)	a Minister of the Commonwealth, or a Minister of this or another State or a Territory, as the case requires; or
(ii)	a person who might reasonably be supposed to have custody of the record or document;
or
(b)	purports to be a copy of or extract from the record or document that is certified to be a true copy or extract by —
(i)	a Minister of the Commonwealth, or a Minister of this or another State or a Territory, as the case requires; or
(ii)	a person who might reasonably be supposed to have custody of the record or document.
(3)	If the document is produced, it is presumed, unless evidence that is sufficient to raise doubt about the presumption is adduced, that —
(a)	the document is the record, public document, copy or extract that it purports to be; and
(b)	the Minister of the Commonwealth, the Minister of this or another State or a Territory or person signed or sealed the record or document, or certified the copy or extract as a true copy or extract, as the case requires.
(4)	This section extends to a proceeding before a person acting judicially.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 155
336.	Presumption as to authenticity of copies, extracts and summaries of public documents
(1)	A document that purports to be a copy of, or an extract from or summary of, a public document is presumed, unless the contrary is proved, to be a copy of the public document, or an extract from or summary of the public document, if it purports to have been —
(a)	sealed with the seal of a person who, or a body that, might reasonably be supposed to have the custody of the public document; or
(b)	certified as a copy, extract or summary by a person who might reasonably be supposed to have custody of the public document.
(2)	If an officer entrusted with the custody of a public document is required by a court to produce the public document, it is sufficient compliance with the requirement for the officer to produce a copy of, or extract from, the public document if it purports to be signed and certified by the officer as a true copy or extract.
(3)	It is sufficient production of a copy or extract for the purposes of subsection (2) if the officer sends it by prepaid post, or causes it to be delivered, to —
(a)	the proper officer of the court in which it is to be produced; or
(b)	the person before whom it is to be produced.
(4)	The court before which a copy or extract is produced under subsection (2) may direct the officer to produce the original public document.
(5)	This section extends to a proceeding before a person acting judicially.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 156
337.	Presumption as to authenticity of official seals and signatures
(1)	In this section —
office holder means —
(a)	the Sovereign; or
(b)	the Governor-General; or
(c)	the Governor of a State; or
(d)	the Administrator of a Territory; or
(e)	a person holding any other office under an Australian law or a law of a foreign country.
(2)	If the imprint of a seal appears on a document and purports to be the imprint of any of the following, it is presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that the imprint is the imprint of that seal, and the document was duly sealed as it purports to have been sealed —
(a)	a Royal Great Seal;
(b)	the Great Seal of Australia;
(c)	another seal of the Commonwealth;
(d)	a seal of a State, a Territory or a foreign country;
(e)	the seal of a body (including a court or a tribunal), or a body corporate, established by or under Royal Charter or by an Australian law or the law of a foreign country.
(3)	If the imprint of a seal appears on a document and purports to be the imprint of the seal of an office holder, it is presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that —
(a)	the imprint is the imprint of that seal; and
(b)	the document was duly sealed by the office holder acting in the office holder’s official capacity; and
(c)	the office holder held the relevant office when the document was sealed.
(4)	If a document purports to have been signed by an office holder in the office holder’s official capacity, it is presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that —
(a)	the document was signed by the office holder acting in that capacity; and
(b)	the office holder held the relevant office when the document was signed.
(5)	This section extends to a proceeding before a person acting judicially.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 150 and 151
338.	Proof of public documents of other States or Territories
(1)	A public document, or a certified copy of a public document, of another State or a Territory that purports to be sealed, or signed and sealed, or signed alone, as directed by the law of that State or Territory and that is admissible for a purpose in that State or Territory under the law of that State or Territory is admissible in evidence to the same extent and for that purpose in this State —
(a)	without proof of the seal or signature or of the official character of the person appearing to have signed the document; and
(b)	without further proof in every case in which the original document could have been received in evidence.
(2)	A public document of another State or a Territory that is admissible in evidence for any purpose in that State or Territory under the law of that State or Territory without proof of the following matters is admissible in evidence to the same extent and for any purpose in this State without proof of those matters —
(a)	the seal or signature authenticating the document;
(b)	the judicial or official character of the person appearing to have signed the document.
(3)	This section only applies to documents that are public records of another State or a Territory.
(4)	This section extends to a proceeding before a person acting judicially.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 158
339.	Proof of public documents relating to judgments, acts and processes of courts
(1)	Evidence of a public document that is a judgment (including reasons for judgment), act or other process of an Australian court or a foreign court, or that is a document lodged with an Australian court or a foreign court, may be adduced by producing a document that purports to be a copy of the public document and that —
(a)	is proved to be an examined copy; or
(b)	purports to be sealed with the seal of that court; or
(c)	purports to be signed by a judge, magistrate, registrar or other proper officer of that court.
(2)	This section extends to a proceeding before a person acting judicially.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 157
340.	Proof of official statistics
(1)	In this section —
Australian Statistician —
(a)	means the Australian Statistician referred to in the Australian Bureau of Statistics Act 1975 (Commonwealth) section 5(2); and
(b)	includes any person to whom the powers of the Australian Statistician under the Census and Statistics Act 1905 (Commonwealth) section 12 have been delegated.
(2)	A document containing statistics or abstracts is evidence that those statistics or abstracts were compiled and analysed by the Australian Statistician under the Census and Statistics Act 1905 (Commonwealth) if the document purports —
(a)	to be published by the Australian Statistician; and
(b)	to contain statistics or abstracts compiled and analysed by the Australian Statistician under the Census and Statistics Act 1905 (Commonwealth).
(3)	This section extends to a proceeding before a person acting judicially.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 159
	Division 4 — Proof of other matters relating to documents and things
341.	Presumption relating to documents and things produced by processes and devices
(1)	This section applies to a document or thing —
(a)	that is produced wholly or partly by a device or process; and
(b)	that is tendered by a party who asserts that, in producing the document or thing, the device or process has produced a particular outcome.
(2)	If it is reasonably open to find that the device or process is one that, or is of a kind that, if properly used, ordinarily produces that outcome, it is presumed (unless evidence sufficient to raise doubt about the presumption is adduced) that, in producing the document or thing on the occasion in question, the device or process produced that outcome.
Example for this section:
It would not be necessary to call evidence to prove that a photocopier normally produced complete copies of documents and that it was working properly when it was used to photocopy a particular document.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 146
342.	Presumption relating to business documents produced by processes and devices
(1)	This section applies to a document —
(a)	that is produced wholly or partly by a device or process; and
(b)	that is tendered by a party who asserts that, in producing the document, the device or process has produced a particular outcome.
(2)	It is presumed (unless evidence sufficient to raise doubt about the presumption is adduced) that, in producing the document on the occasion in question, the device or process produced that outcome if —
(a)	the document is, or was at the time it was produced, part of the records of, or kept for the purposes of, a business (whether or not the business is still in existence); and
(b)	the device or process is or was at that time used for the purposes of the business.
(3)	Subsection (2) does not apply to the contents of a document that was produced —
(a)	for the purpose of conducting, or for or in contemplation of or in connection with, an Australian or overseas proceeding; or
(b)	in connection with an investigation relating or leading to a criminal proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 147
343.	Findings about accuracy of documents produced by devices and processes
(1)	This section applies to a document that is tendered by a party who asserts that the document is admissible as evidence of the contents of another document because —
(a)	the document is a copy or accurate reproduction of the other document; and
(b)	the document has been produced by a device that reproduces the contents of documents or has been made by any other process or in any other way.
(2)	In making a finding about whether the document is a copy or accurate reproduction of another document, the court is not bound by the rules of evidence and may make that finding —
(a)	based on its own knowledge about the nature and reliability of the device or process by which, or way in which, the document was produced; or
(b)	based on evidence of a person with knowledge and experience of the device or process by which, or way in which, the copy or reproduction was made; or
(c)	based on evidence of a person who has compared the contents of both documents and found them to be identical; or
(d)	on any other basis it considers appropriate in the circumstances.
(3)	The court must state the reason for making a finding that the document is or is not a copy or accurate reproduction of another document if requested to do so by a party to the proceeding.
(4)	If a document is made by a device or process that is prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this subsection, the device or process is presumed to produce a copy or accurate reproduction of the document purportedly copied or reproduced, unless the contrary is proved.
(5)	This section does not apply to or in respect of a copy of a document if the copy is admissible under another written law.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 73A
344.	Presumption as to documents attested by justices, lawyers and notaries public
It is presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that a document was attested or verified by, or signed or acknowledged before, a justice of the peace, lawyer or notary public, if —
(a)	an Australian law requires, authorises or permits it to be attested, verified, signed or acknowledged by a justice of the peace, a lawyer or a notary public, as the case may be; and
(b)	it purports to have been attested, verified, signed or acknowledged as referred to in paragraph (a).
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 148
345.	Testimony of attesting witness not required
It is not necessary to adduce the evidence of an attesting witness to a document (not being a testamentary document) to prove that the document was signed or attested as it purports to have been signed or attested.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 149
346.	Presumption as to documents produced from proper custody
(1)	If a document that is or purports to be more than 20 years of age is produced from proper custody, it is presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that —
(a)	the document is the document that it purports to be; and
(b)	if it purports to have been executed or attested by a person — it was duly executed or attested by that person.
(2)	The presumption referred to in subsection (1) extends to a copy of a document referred to in subsection (1) that is admitted into evidence as if the copy were the document.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 73N
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 152
347.	Proof of foreign documents admissible in foreign countries
(1)	A document that is admissible in evidence for a purpose in a foreign court prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this section without proof of the following matters is admissible in evidence to the same extent and for the same purpose in this State without proof of those matters —
(a)	the seal or signature authenticating the document; or
(b)	the judicial or official character of the person appearing to have signed the document.
(2)	This section extends to a proceeding before a person acting judicially.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 62
	Division 5 — Proof of communications
348.	Presumption relating to receipt of postal articles
(1)	In this section —
postal article has the meaning given in the Australian Postal Corporation Act 1989 (Commonwealth) section 3;
working day means a day that is not —
(a)	a Saturday or a Sunday; or
(b)	a public holiday or a bank holiday in the place to which the postal article was addressed.
(2)	It is presumed (unless evidence sufficient to raise doubt about the presumption is adduced) that a postal article sent by prepaid post addressed to a person at a specified address in Australia or in an external Territory was received by the person at that address on the 7th working day after having been posted.
(3)	This section does not apply if —
(a)	the proceeding relates to a contract; and
(b)	all the parties to the proceeding are parties to the contract; and
(c)	subsection (2) is inconsistent with a term of the contract.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 160
349.	Presumptions relating to electronic communications
(1)	If a document purports to contain a record of an electronic communication, it is presumed (unless evidence sufficient to raise doubt about the presumption is adduced) that the communication —
(a)	was sent or made in the form of electronic communication that appears from the document to have been the form by which it was sent or made; and
(b)	was sent or made by or on behalf of the person by or on whose behalf it appears from the document to have been sent or made; and
(c)	was sent or made on the day on which, at the time at which and from the place from which it appears from the document to have been sent or made; and
(d)	was received at the destination to which it appears from the document to have been sent; and
(e)	if it appears from the document that the sending of the communication concluded at a particular time — was received at that destination at that time.
(2)	A provision of subsection (1) does not apply if —
(a)	the proceeding relates to a contract; and
(b)	all the parties to the proceeding are parties to the contract; and
(c)	the provision is inconsistent with a term of the contract.
(3)	This section does not apply to a document that purports to contain a record of a message transmitted by means of a lettergram or telegram.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 161
350.	Presumption relating to receipt of lettergrams and telegrams
(1)	If a document purports to contain a record of a message transmitted by means of a lettergram or telegram, it is presumed (unless evidence sufficient to raise doubt about the presumption is adduced) that the message was received by the person to whom it was addressed 24 hours after the message was delivered to a post office for transmission as a lettergram or telegram.
(2)	This section does not apply if —
(a)	the proceeding relates to a contract; and
(b)	all the parties to the proceeding are parties to the contract; and
(c)	subsection (1) is inconsistent with a term of the contract.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 162
	Division 6 — Proof of matters relating to documents or things by affidavit or written statement
351.	Application of Division
This Division applies to evidence of a fact that is, because of a provision of this Act referred to in the Table, to be proved in relation to a document or thing.
Table
Provision
Subject matter
Section 59
Proof of contents of documents
Sections 76, 77 and 78
Hearsay rule exceptions for first-hand hearsay
Section 83
Hearsay rule exception for business records
Section 84
Hearsay rule exception for tags, labels and writing
Section 85
Hearsay rule exception for electronic communication
Part 9 Division 3
Proof of public documents and other official matters
Part 9 Division 4
Proof of other matters relating to documents and things
Part 9 Division 5
Proof of communications
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 170(1)
352.	Persons who may give evidence
(1)	Evidence may be given by —
(a)	a person who, at the relevant time or afterwards, had a position of responsibility in relation to making or keeping the document or thing; or
(b)	any of the following persons (each of whom is an authorised person) —
(i)	a person who is an authorised witness for an affidavit or statutory declaration that is made outside the State under the Oaths, Affidavits and Statutory Declarations Act 2005 section 9(8) or 12(6)(b) or (c);
(ii)	a police officer of or above the rank of sergeant;
(iii)	a person authorised by the Minister for the purposes of this section.
(2)	Despite subsection (1)(b), evidence must not be given by an authorised person who, at the relevant time or afterwards, did not have a position of responsibility in relation to making or keeping the document or thing unless it appears to the court that —
(a)	it is not reasonably practicable for the evidence to be given by a person who had, at the relevant time or afterwards, a position of responsibility in relation to making or keeping the document or thing; or
(b)	having regard to all the circumstances of the case, undue expense would be caused by calling a person who had, at the relevant time or afterwards, a position of responsibility in relation to making or keeping the document or thing, as a witness.
(3)	Subsection (1)(b) does not apply to evidence of a fact that must be proved in relation to a document or thing because of section 76, 77 or 78.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 171
353.	Form in which evidence may be given
Evidence may be given by affidavit or, if the evidence relates to a public document, by a written statement.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 170(2)
354.	Evidence based on knowledge, belief or information
(1)	Despite Part 3, evidence may include evidence based on the knowledge and belief of the person who gives it, or on information that that person has.
(2)	An affidavit or statement that includes evidence based on knowledge, information or belief must set out the source of the knowledge or information or the basis of the belief.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 172
355.	Notification of other parties
(1)	A copy of the affidavit or statement must be served on each party within a reasonable time before the hearing of the proceeding.
(2)	The party who tenders the affidavit or statement must, if another party requests it, call the deponent or person who made the statement to give evidence but need not otherwise do so.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 173
	Division 7 — Proof of other matters by certificate or affidavit
356.	Certificate of expert evidence
(1)	Evidence of a person’s opinion may be adduced by tendering a certificate (an expert certificate) signed by the person that —
(a)	states the person’s name and address; and
(b)	states that the person has specialised knowledge based on the person’s training, study or experience, as specified in the certificate; and
(c)	sets out an opinion that the person holds and that is expressed to be wholly or substantially based on that knowledge.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not apply unless the party seeking to tender the expert certificate has served on each other party —
(a)	a copy of the certificate; and
(b)	a written notice stating that the party proposes to tender the certificate as evidence of the opinion.
(3)	Service must be effected not later than —
(a)	21 days before the hearing; or
(b)	if, on application by the party before or after service, the court substitutes a different period — the beginning of that period.
(4)	Service for the purposes of subsection (2) may be proved by affidavit.
(5)	A party on whom the documents referred to in subsection (2) are served may, by written notice served on the party proposing to tender the expert certificate, require the party to call the person who signed the certificate to give evidence.
(6)	The expert certificate is not admissible as evidence if that requirement is made.
(7)	The court may make any order with respect to costs that it considers just against a party who has, without reasonable cause, required a party to call a person to give evidence under this section.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 177
357.	Certificate evidence of convictions, acquittals, sentences and other court matters
(1)	In this section —
acquittal includes the dismissal of the charge in question by an applicable court;
applicable court means an Australian court or a foreign court.
(2)	This section applies to the following facts —
(a)	the conviction or acquittal before or by an applicable court of a person charged with an offence;
(b)	the sentencing of a person to any punishment or pecuniary penalty by an applicable court;
(c)	an order by an applicable court;
(d)	the pendency or existence at any time before an applicable court of a civil or criminal proceeding.
(3)	Evidence of a fact to which this section applies may be given by a certificate signed by a judge, a magistrate or a registrar or other proper officer of the applicable court —
(a)	showing the fact, or purporting to contain particulars, of the record, indictment, conviction, acquittal, sentence, order or proceeding in question; and
(b)	stating the time and place of the conviction, acquittal, sentence, order or proceeding; and
(c)	stating the title of the applicable court.
(4)	A certificate given under this section showing a conviction, acquittal, sentence or order is also evidence of the particular offence or matter in respect of which the conviction, acquittal, sentence or order was had, passed or made, if stated in the certificate.
(5)	A certificate given under this section showing the pendency or existence of a proceeding is also evidence of the particular nature and occasion, or ground and cause, of the proceeding, if stated in the certificate.
(6)	A certificate given under this section purporting to contain particulars of a record, indictment, conviction, acquittal, sentence, order or proceeding is also evidence of the matters stated in the certificate.
(7)	This section does not affect the operation of section 107 or any other provision of this Act that limits the admissibility of evidence of a fact to which this section applies.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 178
358.	Affidavit evidence of identity of convicted persons by State and Territory police
(1)	This section applies if a member of a police force of a State or Territory —
(a)	makes an affidavit in the form prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this section; and
(b)	states in the affidavit that the member is a fingerprint expert for that police force.
(2)	For the purpose of proving before a court the identity of a person alleged to have been convicted in that State or Territory of an offence, the affidavit is evidence in a proceeding that the person whose fingerprints are shown on a fingerprint card referred to in the affidavit and marked for identification —
(a)	is the person referred to in a certificate of conviction, or certified copy of conviction annexed to the affidavit, as having been convicted of an offence; and
(b)	was convicted of that offence; and
(c)	was convicted of any other offence of which the person is stated in the affidavit to have been convicted.
(3)	For the purposes of this section, if a Territory does not have its own police force, the police force performing the policing functions of the Territory is taken to be the police force of the Territory.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 179
359.	Affidavit evidence of identity of convicted persons by AFP employees and special members
(1)	In this section —
AFP employee has the meaning given in the Australian Federal Police Act 1979 (Commonwealth) section 4(1);
AFP special member means a special member of the Australian Federal Police as defined in the Australian Federal Police Act 1979 (Commonwealth) section 4(1).
(2)	This section applies if an AFP employee or AFP special member —
(a)	makes an affidavit in the form prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this section; and
(b)	states in the affidavit that the AFP employee or AFP special member is a fingerprint expert for the Australian Federal Police.
(3)	For the purpose of proving before a court the identity of a person alleged to have been convicted of any offence against a law of the Commonwealth, the affidavit is evidence in a proceeding that the person whose fingerprints are shown on a fingerprint card referred to in the affidavit and marked for identification —
(a)	is the person referred to in a certificate of conviction, or certified copy of conviction annexed to the affidavit, as having been convicted of an offence; and
(b)	was convicted of that offence; and
(c)	was convicted of any other offence of which the person is stated in the affidavit to have been convicted.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 180
360.	Forensic biology certificates
(1)	In this section and section 361 —
examination, of a thing, includes testing the thing;
forensic scientist means a person appointed under section 362(1) as a forensic scientist for the purposes of this section;
thing includes anything in or on or otherwise attached to the thing.
(2)	This section applies to a criminal proceeding.
(3)	A certificate (a forensic biology certificate) purporting to be signed by a forensic scientist and stating any of the following matters is evidence of the matter —
(a)	that a stated thing was received at a stated laboratory on a stated day;
(b)	that the thing was examined at the laboratory on a stated day or between stated days;
(c)	that a DNA profile was, or a stated number of DNA profiles were, obtained from the thing;
(d)	that a forensic scientist —
(i)	examined the laboratory’s records relating to the receipt, storage and examination of the thing, including any examination of the thing that was done by a person other than the forensic scientist; and
(ii)	confirms that the records indicate that all quality assurance procedures for the receipt, storage and examination of the thing that applied in the laboratory at the time the thing was examined were complied with.
(4)	In subsection (3) —
DNA profile means the result from DNA analysis.
(5)	Any equipment used in examining the thing at the laboratory is taken to have given accurate results in the absence of evidence to the contrary.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 50B
361.	Procedure for using forensic biology certificates
(1)	In this section and section 362 —
authorised officer, for a laboratory, means a person who holds an office prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this definition in relation to that laboratory.
(2)	In this section —
forensic biology certificate has the meaning given in section 360(3).
(3)	A party who intends to rely on a forensic biology certificate in a criminal proceeding must —
(a)	give a copy of the certificate to each other party at least 14 days before the day set for the start of the trial in the proceeding; and
(b)	at the hearing, call the forensic scientist who gave the certificate to give evidence, unless the parties agree otherwise.
(4)	If the authorised officer for a laboratory receives a written request from a party for a copy of the laboratory’s records relating to the receipt, storage and examination of the thing referred to in a forensic biology certificate, the authorised officer must give the party a copy of the records within 10 days after receiving the request.
(5)	If a party intends to dispute a matter stated in the forensic biology certificate, the party must, at least 7 days before the day set for the start of the trial in the proceeding, give the authorised officer and each other party written notice of the matter to be disputed.
(6)	A party disputing a matter stated in the forensic biology certificate may, with the leave of the court, require the party relying on the certificate to call any person involved in the receipt, storage or examination of the thing referred to in the certificate to give evidence at the hearing.
(7)	The court may give leave only if satisfied —
(a)	that an irregularity may exist in relation to the receipt, storage or examination of the thing about which the person to be called is able to give evidence; and
(b)	that it is in the interests of justice that the person be called to give evidence.
(8)	The court may, by order, extend or shorten a time fixed by this section by fixing a new time or by extending or shortening the time.
(9)	An application for an order under subsection (8) may be made before or after the time fixed by this section expires.
(10)	A document required to be given under this section must be given in accordance with any regulations or rules of court made for the purposes of this section.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 50B
362.	Appointment of persons as forensic scientists for purposes of s. 360
(1)	The authorised officer for a laboratory may, in writing, appoint a person as a forensic scientist for the purposes of section 360 if satisfied that the person has the necessary qualifications and experience to be a forensic scientist.
(2)	A person may be appointed as a forensic scientist for the purposes of section 360 for a fixed or indefinite period.
(3)	The authorised officer for a laboratory may, in writing, revoke an appointment under subsection (1) at any time.
363.	Proof of service of statutory notifications, notices, orders and directions
(1)	The service, giving or sending under an Australian law of a written notification, notice, order or direction may be proved by affidavit of the person who served, gave or sent it.
(2)	A person who, for the purposes of a proceeding, makes an affidavit referred to in this section is not, because of making the affidavit, excused from attending for cross-examination if required to do so by a party to the proceeding.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 181
	Division 8 — Proof of particular matters in criminal proceedings
364.	Proof of intention to injure, deceive or defraud
In any criminal proceeding in which it is necessary to prove an intention to injure or deceive or defraud, or an intention to enable another person to deceive or defraud, it is not necessary to prove an intention to injure or deceive or defraud a particular person or an intention to enable any particular person to deceive or defraud any particular person.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 29
365.	Evidence of stealing or receiving property from aircraft, vehicle, vessel or related premises
(1)	In this section —
aircraft, vehicle and vessel have the meanings given in The Criminal Code section 1(1);
shipping document includes a bill of lading, manifest, shipping receipt, delivery order, packing list, waybill or invoice.
(2)	This section applies to a criminal proceeding for an offence of —
(a)	stealing property from an aircraft, vehicle or vessel; or
(b)	stealing property from any building, structure or place used in connection with the docking, loading or unloading of an aircraft, vehicle or vessel; or
(c)	receiving any property stolen as referred to in paragraph (a) or (b); or
(d)	being in possession of anything that may reasonably be suspected of being stolen as referred to in paragraph (a) or (b).
(3)	In the proceeding —
(a)	evidence may be given of any writing, printing or marks on the property the subject of the proceeding without producing or giving notice to produce the original writing, printing or marks; and
(b)	any apparently genuine document purporting to be a shipping document for the property or for property that may reasonably be assumed to be the same as the property the subject of the proceeding —
(i)	is admissible in evidence on production and without further proof; and
(ii)	is evidence of the particulars contained in the document and that the ownership of the property is in the consignee referred to in the document or an assignee of that consignee.
(4)	In deciding whether any property described in a shipping document is the same as the property the subject of the proceeding, regard must be had to the following —
(a)	the description of the property in the document;
(b)	any writing, printing or marks on the property, or on any package containing the property, as detailed in the document;
(c)	the source from which the document was obtained;
(d)	how the document was produced;
(e)	the circumstances in which the document came into the custody of the person producing it;
(f)	any other relevant circumstances.
(5)	This section applies if evidence is adduced that the stealing occurred in or from a building, structure or place referred to in subsection (2)(b), whether or not the building, structure or place is specified in the charge for the offence.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 41A
366.	Proof of stealing money
In a criminal proceeding for an offence of stealing money —
(a)	an entry in a book of account kept or made by the accused, or under the accused’s supervision, that purports to be an entry of the receipt of any money is evidence that the money was received by the accused; and
(b)	it is not necessary to prove that the accused stole a specific sum of money if, on an examination of any books of account or entries in a book of account kept or made by the accused, or under the accused’s supervision, or any other evidence —
(i)	there is proof of a general deficiency; and
(ii)	the trier of fact is satisfied that the accused stole the deficient money or any part of it.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 44
	Part 10 — Miscellaneous
367.	Inferences
If a question arises about the application of a provision of this Act in relation to a document or thing, the court may —
(a)	examine the document or thing; and
(b)	draw any reasonable inferences from it as well as from other matters from which inferences may properly be drawn.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 183
368.	Accused may admit matters and give consents
(1)	In or before a criminal proceeding, an accused may —
(a)	admit any matter of fact that a party to a civil proceeding may admit; and
(b)	give any consent that a party to a civil proceeding may give.
(2)	An accused’s admission or consent is not effective for the purposes of subsection (1) unless —
(a)	the accused has been advised to make the admission or give the consent by the accused’s legal counsel; or
(b)	the court is satisfied that the accused understands the consequences of making the admission or giving the consent.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 184
369.	Impounding documents
(1)	A court may direct that a document that has been tendered or produced before the court (whether or not it is admitted in evidence) must be impounded and kept in the custody of an officer of the court or of another person for the period, and subject to the conditions, that the court thinks fit.
(2)	This section extends to a proceeding before a person acting judicially.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 188
370.	Preliminary questions
(1)	In this section, a preliminary question is a question as to whether a particular fact exists, being a question of fact that must be decided by the court before it makes a determination as to whether —
(a)	evidence should be admitted (whether in the exercise of a discretion or not); or
(b)	evidence can be used against a person; or
(c)	a witness is competent or compellable.
(2)	If there is a jury, each of the following preliminary questions must be heard and determined in the jury’s absence —
(a)	a question of whether particular evidence is evidence of an admission, or evidence to which section 204 applies;
(b)	a question of whether evidence of an admission, or evidence to which section 204 applies, should be admitted.
(3)	In the hearing of a preliminary question about whether an accused’s admission should be admitted into evidence (whether in the exercise of a discretion or not) in a criminal proceeding, the issue of the admission’s truth or untruth must be disregarded unless the issue is introduced by the accused.
(4)	If there is a jury, the jury must not be present at a hearing to decide any other preliminary question unless the court otherwise orders.
(5)	Without limiting the matters that the court may take into account in deciding whether to make that order, it must take into account —
(a)	whether the evidence to be adduced in the course of that hearing is likely to be prejudicial to the accused; and
(b)	whether the evidence concerned will be adduced in the course of the hearing to decide the preliminary question; and
(c)	whether the evidence to be adduced in the course of that hearing would be admitted if adduced at another stage of the hearing (other than in another hearing to decide a preliminary question or, in a criminal proceeding, a hearing in relation to sentencing).
(6)	Section 186 applies to a hearing to decide a preliminary question, despite section 186(8).
(7)	In the application of Part 3, 4 or 5 to a hearing to determine a preliminary question, the facts in issue are taken to include the question of fact to which the hearing relates.
(8)	If a jury in a proceeding was not present at a hearing to determine a preliminary question, evidence must not be adduced in the proceeding of evidence given by a witness at the hearing unless —
(a)	it is inconsistent with other evidence given by the witness in the proceeding; or
(b)	the witness has died.
(9)	If, after a hearing under this section, a document or thing is ruled admissible as evidence, it is not necessary for the party proposing to adduce the evidence to tender the evidence again.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 189
371.	Waiver of rules of evidence
(1)	A court may, if the parties consent, by order dispense with the application of any of the following in relation to particular evidence or generally —
(a)	the provisions of Part 2 Division 1 Subdivision 3, 4 or 5;
(b)	the provisions of Part 2 Division 2 or 3;
(c)	the provisions of Part 3 Divisions 2 to 8.
(2)	In a criminal proceeding, an accused’s consent is not effective for the purposes of subsection (1) unless —
(a)	the accused has been advised to do so by the accused’s legal counsel; or
(b)	the court is satisfied that the accused understands the consequences of giving the consent.
(3)	In a civil proceeding, the court may order that any of the provisions mentioned in subsection (1) do not apply in relation to evidence if —
(a)	the matter to which the evidence relates is not genuinely in dispute; or
(b)	the application of those provisions would cause or involve unnecessary expense or delay.
(4)	Without limiting the matters that the court may take into account in deciding whether to exercise the power conferred by subsection (3), it must take into account —
(a)	the importance of the evidence in the proceeding; and
(b)	the nature of the cause of action or defence and the nature of the subject matter of the proceeding; and
(c)	the probative value of the evidence; and
(d)	the powers of the court (if any) to adjourn the hearing, to make another order or to give a direction in relation to the evidence.
(5)	This section does not permit a court to dispense with the application of section 56 or 57.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 190
372.	Agreements as to facts
(1)	In this section —
agreed fact means a fact that the parties to a proceeding have agreed is not, for the purposes of the proceeding, to be disputed.
(2)	In a proceeding —
(a)	evidence is not required to prove the existence of an agreed fact unless the court gives leave; and
(b)	evidence must not be adduced to contradict or qualify an agreed fact unless the court gives leave.
(3)	Subsection (2) does not apply unless the agreed fact —
(a)	is stated in an agreement in writing signed by the parties or by legal counsel or prosecutors representing the parties and adduced in evidence in the proceeding; or
(b)	with the leave of the court, is stated by a party before the court with the agreement of all other parties.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 191
373.	Leave, permission or direction may be subject to conditions
(1)	If, because of this Act, a court may give any leave, permission or direction, the leave, permission or direction may be given subject to the conditions that the court thinks fit.
(2)	Without limiting the matters that the court may take into account in deciding whether to give the leave, permission or direction, the court must take into account —
(a)	the extent to which to do so would be likely to add unduly to, or to shorten, the length of the hearing; and
(b)	the extent to which to do so would be unfair to a party or to a witness; and
(c)	the importance of the evidence in relation to which the leave, permission or direction is sought; and
(d)	the nature of the proceeding; and
(e)	the power (if any) of the court to adjourn the hearing or to make another order or to give a direction in relation to the evidence.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 192
374.	Advance rulings and findings
If a question arises in any proceeding about any of the following, the court may, if it considers it appropriate to do so, give a ruling or make a finding in relation to the question before the evidence concerned is adduced in the proceeding —
(a)	the admissibility or use of evidence proposed to be adduced;
(b)	the operation of a provision of this Act or another law in relation to evidence proposed to be adduced;
(c)	the giving of any leave, permission or direction that the court may give under this Act.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 192A
375.	Additional powers of court in relation to discovery and disclosure
(1)	The powers of a court in relation to discovery and disclosure extend to enabling the court to make any orders the court thinks fit to ensure that the parties to a proceeding can adequately, and in an appropriate matter, inspect documents, including orders about any of the following —
(a)	methods of inspection;
(b)	adjournments;
(c)	costs.
(2)	A reference in this section to the powers of a court in relation to discovery and disclosure is a reference to the powers of a court in relation to —
(a)	the discovery or inspection of documents; and
(b)	ordering disclosure and exchange of evidence, intended evidence, documents and reports.
(3)	The power of the court to make an order for costs under subsection (1) is subject to the Criminal Procedure Act 2004 section 123.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 193(1)
376.	Additional power to make rules of court
(1)	The power of a person or body to make rules of court extends to making rules, not inconsistent with this Act or the regulations, prescribing matters —
(a)	required or permitted by this Act to be prescribed; or
(b)	necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to the purposes of this Act; or
(c)	necessary or convenient to be prescribed for giving effect to the purposes of the Courts and Tribunals (Electronic Processes Facilitation) Act 2013 Part 2 (as applied by section 16 of this Act).
(2)	Without limiting subsection (1), rules made under that subsection may provide for any of the following —
(a)	the discovery, exchange, inspection or disclosure of intended evidence, documents and reports of persons intended to be called by a party to give evidence in a proceeding;
(b)	the exclusion of evidence, or its admission subject to specified conditions, if the rules are not complied with.
(3)	The Courts and Tribunals (Electronic Processes Facilitation) Act 2013 section 20(3) and (4) apply as if the power conferred by subsection (1)(c) of this section were a power conferred by section 20(1) or (2) of that Act.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 133
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 193(2) to (4)
377.	Witness who fails to attend proceeding
(1)	If a witness fails to appear when called in any proceeding and it is proved that the witness was duly bound by recognisance or served with a subpoena, summons or order to attend as a witness in the proceeding, the court may —
(a)	order the witness to show cause why execution of the recognisance or an attachment for disobedience to the subpoena, summons or order should not be issued against the witness; or
(b)	if it is proved that the non-appearance is without just cause or reasonable excuse, and that the witness will probably be able to give relevant evidence in the proceeding — issue a warrant to bring the witness before the court to give evidence at the proceeding.
(2)	Matters may be proved under this section orally or by affidavit.
(3)	An order to show cause under subsection (1)(a) may —
(a)	be made returnable before the court then sitting or at some future sitting; or
(b)	in respect of the non-appearance of a witness at a circuit court (as defined in the Supreme Court Act 1935 section 48) or on the trial of a case pending in the Supreme Court, be made returnable in the Supreme Court.
(4)	On return of the order to show cause, the court may deal with the case in the same way as the Supreme Court would deal with an order to similar effect made by the Supreme Court.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 16 and 17
378.	Payments to witnesses and others for eligible service
(1)	In this section —
eligible service has the meaning given in subsection (2);
inquest has the meaning given in the Coroners Act 1996 section 3;
liable person, in respect of a payment for eligible service, means —
(a)	if the eligible service is in a criminal proceeding and the prosecution was commenced by or on behalf of a local government or a statutory body — the local government or statutory body; or
(b)	in any other case — the State.
(2)	A person does eligible service if the person is, or attends at any place in order to be, any of the following —
(a)	a witness who is called by the prosecutor in a criminal proceeding;
(b)	a witness who is called by the accused in a criminal proceeding and who is a child or a special witness;
(c)	a witness in an inquest;
(d)	an interpreter in a criminal proceeding or an inquest;
(e)	a person approved under section 231 to provide a witness with support in a proceeding;
(f)	a person appointed under section 233 to act as a communicator in a proceeding;
(g)	a person who participates in a program the purpose of which is to prepare the following persons to give evidence in a criminal proceeding or an inquest —
(i)	a child who may be a witness;
(ii)	a person who is or may be declared to be a special witness;
(h)	a person who accompanies and assists another person described in paragraph (g) in order to enable the other person to attend the program described in that paragraph;
(i)	a person who accompanies and assists another person to attend and be a witness in a criminal proceeding or an inquest, if the other person is —
(i)	a child who may be a witness; or
(ii)	a person who is or may be declared to be a special witness.
(3)	A person who does eligible service is entitled to be paid by the liable person any allowances and expenses for doing that eligible service provided for by the regulations.
(4)	If a person does eligible service during any period in which the person is employed under a contract of service, the employer under the contract of service must pay to the person the earnings that the person could reasonably expect to have been paid under that contract during that period.
Penalty for this subsection: a fine of $2 000.
(5)	Subsection (4) applies even if doing the eligible service causes a breach of contract.
(6)	An employer who, in accordance with subsection (4), pays a person for a period in which the person does eligible service is entitled to be paid by the liable person the fees provided for by the regulations for the eligible service.
(7)	A person who does eligible service is entitled to be paid by the liable person the fees provided for by the regulations for doing that eligible service if —
(a)	subsection (4) does not apply to the person; or
(b)	subsection (4) applies to the person but the employer fails to pay the person in accordance with that subsection.
(8)	The regulations may specify circumstances in which subsections (6) and (7) do not apply.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 119
379.	Recovery of amounts payable
(1)	A claim to a liable person for payment under section 378 must be made and determined in accordance with the regulations.
(2)	The regulations may require information in support of a claim for payment to be verified by statutory declaration.
(3)	On the application of an accused who calls a witness in a criminal proceeding, the Minister may authorise the State to pay all or some of the amounts that would be payable under section 378 if the witness were called by the prosecutor in the proceeding.
(4)	An amount paid under section 378, or this section, by the State must be charged to the Consolidated Account, which this subsection appropriates accordingly.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 119
380.	Prohibited question not to be published
(1)	A person must not, without the express permission of a court, publish —
(a)	any question that the court has disallowed under section 50; or
(b)	any question that the court has disallowed because any answer that is likely to be given to the question would contravene the credibility rule; or
(c)	any question in respect of which the court has refused to give leave under Part 3 Division 7.
Penalty for this subsection: a fine of $6 000.
(2)	A person who contravenes subsection (1) —
(a)	is taken to be in contempt of the court that disallowed the question or refused to give leave; and
(b)	is punishable accordingly.
(3)	If a person’s act constitutes both an offence under subsection (1) and a contempt of court under subsection (2), the person is not liable to be punished twice.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 27
Evidence Act 1995 (Commonwealth) s. 195
381.	Identity of certain witnesses not to be published
(1)	This section applies —
(a)	in relation to a criminal proceeding — if a person is charged with a sexual offence; or
(b)	in relation to a civil proceeding — if it is alleged that a witness is the victim of sexual abuse or sexual harassment.
(2)	For the purposes of subsection (1)(a), a person is charged with a sexual offence if —
(a)	the person is charged in a prosecution notice or an indictment with committing a sexual offence; or
(b)	the person appears before a court charged with a sexual offence; or
(c)	a court before which the person is appearing commits the person for trial for a charge alleging a sexual offence.
(3)	The following information must not be published, except with the express permission of a court —
(a)	information that is likely to enable members of the public to identify an alleged victim of a sexual offence, sexual abuse or sexual harassment;
(b)	if an alleged victim of a sexual offence, sexual abuse or sexual harassment attends school — information that is likely to enable members of the public to identify the school at which the alleged victim attends.
(4)	If information is published in contravention of subsection (3), each of the following persons commits an offence —
(a)	in the case of information published in a newspaper or periodical publication — any proprietor, editor or publisher of the newspaper or periodical publication at the time the information was published;
(b)	in the case of information published in a program that is broadcast —
(i)	the person who transmitted or provided the program; and
(ii)	any person having functions in relation to the program that were comparable to the functions of an editor of a newspaper at the time the information was published;
(c)	in the case of information published in a manner not mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) — the person who published the information.
Penalty for this subsection:
(a)	for an individual, a fine of $5 000;
(b)	for a body corporate, a fine of $25 000.
(5)	A court has jurisdiction to give permission under subsection (3) if the court is hearing or has jurisdiction to hear the proceeding concerned.
(6)	The giving of permission under subsection (3) does not excuse a contravention of the subsection that occurred before permission was given.
(7)	It is a defence to a charge of an offence under subsection (4) to prove that —
(a)	the person to whom the published matter relates gave written authorisation to the publication of the matter before it was published; and
(b)	at the time of giving that authorisation, the person who gave it —
(i)	had reached 18 years of age; and
(ii)	was not, because of a disability, incapable of making reasonable judgments in respect of the publication of the matter concerned.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 36C
382.	Customs prosecutions
This Act, as it applies to a Customs prosecution (as defined in the Customs Act 1901 (Commonwealth) section 244), does not affect the operation of the Customs Act 1901 (Commonwealth).
383.	Regulations
(1)	The Governor may make regulations prescribing all matters that are required or permitted by this Act to be prescribed, or are necessary or convenient to be prescribed for giving effect to the purposes of —
(a)	this Act; or
(b)	the Courts and Tribunals (Electronic Processes Facilitation) Act 2013 Part 2 (as it applies to this Act).
(2)	Without limiting subsection (1), the regulations may provide for the fees and expenses payable in relation to the taking of evidence or receiving of a submission by video link or audio link and the person liable for payment.
(3)	The regulations may provide that a contravention of a regulation is an offence and prescribe, for an offence against the regulations, a penalty of imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months and a fine not exceeding $100 000.
(4)	The Courts and Tribunals (Electronic Processes Facilitation) Act 2013 section 20(3) and (4) apply as if the power conferred by subsection (1)(b) of this section were a power conferred by section 20(1) or (2) of that Act.
Compare:
Evidence Act 1906 s. 131 and 133
384.	Review of Act
(1)	The Minister must review the operation and effectiveness of this Act, and prepare a report based on the review, as soon as practicable after the 5th anniversary and the 10th anniversary of the day on which this section comes into operation.
(2)	The Minister must cause the report to be laid before each House of Parliament as soon as practicable after it is prepared, but not later than 12 months after the 5th anniversary or the 10th anniversary, as the case may be.
385.	Review of provisions relating to recorded statements
(1)	In this section —
recorded statement provisions means —
(a)	Part 7 Division 4; and
(b)	the Criminal Investigation Act 2006 Part 11A.
(2)	The Minister must review the operation and effectiveness of the recorded statement provisions, and prepare a report based on the review, as soon as practicable after the 2nd anniversary of the day on which Part 7 Division 4 comes into operation.
(3)	The Minister must cause the report to be laid before each House of Parliament as soon as practicable after it is prepared, but not later than 12 months after the 2nd anniversary.
	Part 11 — Repeal, savings and transitional provisions
	Division 1 — Repeals
386.	Evidence Act 1906 repealed
The Evidence Act 1906 is repealed.
387.	Regulations under Evidence Act 1906 repealed
The following regulations are repealed —
(a)	the Evidence (Admissible Reproductions) Regulations 2003;
(b)	the Evidence (Examination of witnesses outside the State) Regulations 1991;
(c)	the Evidence (Fees, Allowances and Expenses) Regulations 2008;
(d)	the Evidence (Prescribed Persons) Regulations 2005;
(e)	the Evidence (Video and Audio Links Fees and Expenses) Regulations 1999;
(f)	the Evidence (Visual Recording of Interviews with Children and Persons with Mental Impairment) Regulations 2004.
	Division 2 — Savings and transitional provisions
388.	Terms used
In this Division —
former Act means the Evidence Act 1906;
former Act recording means —
(a)	a visual recording (as defined in section 228(1)) or an audio recording made by a police officer of this State before repeal day of a relevant statement (as defined in section 106H(3) of the former Act), being a relevant statement that was admitted or could have been admitted into evidence in a proceeding under section 106H of the former Act (whether or not it has been admitted into evidence under that section); or
(b)	a visual recording (as defined in section 228(1)) of an interview conducted before repeal day, being a recording that was admitted or could have been admitted as evidence in a proceeding under section 106HB of the former Act (whether or not it has been admitted as evidence under that section); or
(c)	a visual recording of evidence (as defined in section 106A of the former Act) made before repeal day;
repeal day means the day on which section 386 comes into operation.
389.	Application of Act to proceedings
(1)	A provision of this Act applies to a proceeding commenced on or after the day on which the provision comes into operation.
(2)	If a proceeding commenced before the day on which a provision of this Act comes into operation, the provision applies to that part of the proceeding that takes place on or after the day on which the provision comes into operation, other than a hearing in the proceeding that commenced before the day on which the provision comes into operation.
(3)	The former Act continues to apply to a hearing in a proceeding if the hearing commenced before repeal day and —
(a)	continued on or after repeal day; or
(b)	was adjourned until repeal day or a day after repeal day.
(4)	This section is subject to the other provisions of this Division.
390.	Documents served or given
(1)	A reference in a provision of this Act to a document served or given to a person includes a reference to a document served or given before the day on which the provision comes into operation.
(2)	A document served or given before the day on which a provision of this Act comes into operation is taken to have been served or given in accordance with the requirements (if any) of that provision if it was served or given in accordance with the requirements (if any) —
(a)	that applied under the former Act to the service or giving of the document in the circumstances provided for by the provision of this Act; or
(b)	that would have applied if the provision of this Act had already come into operation.
(3)	If a provision of this Act specifies a time limit for doing a thing that starts when a document is served or given, and the document was served or given before the day on which the provision comes into operation, the time limit is taken to end on the later of the following days —
(a)	the day that is 21 days after the day on which the provision comes into operation;
(b)	the day on which the time limit would have ended but for this section.
391.	Documents and other things examined, copied or viewed
If a provision of this Act requires a party to have been given a reasonable opportunity to examine, copy or view any document or other thing, that requirement is taken to have been complied with if that reasonable opportunity was given before the day on which the provision comes into operation in accordance with any requirements of a written law that were applicable at the time that it was given.
392.	Things done between parties
(1)	A reference in section 113 or 115 to a notice is taken to include a reference to a notice of the kind referred to in that section that was given before the day on which the section comes into operation.
(2)	A reference in section 324 or 355(2) to a request is taken to include a reference to a request of the kind referred to in that section that was made before the day on which the section comes into operation.
(3)	A reference in section 372(3) to an agreement is taken to include a reference to an agreement of the kind referred to in that section that was made before the day on which the section comes into operation.
393.	Identification evidence
(1)	Section 134 does not apply to identification evidence that is an assertion or a report of an assertion that was made before the day on which the section comes into operation.
(2)	This section does not affect the application of Part 5 to identification evidence.
394.	Privileges
(1)	Part 4 Division 1 applies to —
(a)	a confidential communication made before, on or after the day on which that Division comes into operation; and
(b)	a confidential document prepared before, on or after the day on which that Division comes into operation.
(2)	Part 4 Division 2 applies to a protected confidence made before, on or after the day on which that Division comes into operation.
(3)	Part 4 Division 3 applies to a protected communication made before, on or after the day on which that Division comes into operation.
(4)	Part 4 Division 4 applies to information given to a journalist before, on or after the day on which that Division comes into operation.
395.	Cautioning of persons
(1)	Section 205 does not apply to evidence of a statement made or an act done by a person before the day on which that section comes into operation.
(2)	This section does not prevent a court from deciding that evidence referred to in subsection (1) was obtained improperly for the purposes of section 204.
396.	Out-of-court representations
In Part 7, a reference to an out-of-court representation is taken to include a reference to an out-of-court representation made before the day on which section 235 comes into operation.
397.	Recorded interviews
(1)	In Part 7, a reference to a recorded interview is taken to include a reference to a recorded interview made before the day on which section 251 comes into operation.
(2)	For the purposes of Part 7 Division 5, if a recorded interview was made before repeal day —
(a)	the interview in the recorded interview is taken to have been conducted by a person authorised to conduct recorded interviews under the interview admissibility regulations if it was conducted by a person of a prescribed class under section 106HA(1)(a) or (1a)(a) of the former Act; and
(b)	the recorded interview is taken to meet any other requirements of the interview admissibility regulations to the extent required by those regulations if, at the time of recording, the manner in which the interview was conducted and recorded met the prescribed requirements to the prescribed extent under section 106HA(1)(b) or (1a)(b) of the former Act.
(3)	For the purposes of section 260, a reference to recorded interviews that are admissible under Part 7 Division 5 or made for use as evidence under that Division includes a reference to recorded interviews made before repeal day that were admissible under section 106HB of the former Act or made for use as evidence under that section.
(4)	Accordingly, the power to make regulations for the purposes of section 260 extends to recorded interviews referred to in subsection (3).
398.	Visual recordings of evidence
(1)	A reference in section 268(1) or 269(1) to a recording of evidence given by a witness at a special hearing is taken to include a reference to a visual recording of evidence made in a special hearing held pursuant to an order under section 106K or 106RA of the former Act.
(2)	A reference in section 268(2) to a pre-recording order made on the ground that the witness is likely to be out of the State at the time of the proceeding is taken to include a reference to an order made under section 106RA(1) of the former Act on the ground in section 106RA(4)(b) of the former Act.
(3)	A reference in section 280(2) to a recording of evidence given by a witness using a video link separation procedure is taken to include a reference to a visual recording of evidence made under section 106N(3a) of the former Act.
(4)	A reference in section 281(3) to a recording of evidence given by a witness while using a screening procedure is taken to include a reference to a visual recording of evidence made under section 106N(5) of the former Act.
399.	Restrictions on use of audio evidence under former Act
(1)	A person must not make a copy of, or otherwise reproduce, any audio of a proceeding, or any part of a proceeding, heard by means of an audio link under section 106K(3)(a)(ii) of the former Act.
Penalty for this subsection: imprisonment for 2 years or a fine of $24 000.
(2)	A person must not play, supply or offer to supply any copy of, or reproduction of, any audio of a proceeding, or any part of a proceeding, heard by means of an audio link under section 106K(3)(a)(ii) of the former Act.
Penalty for this subsection: imprisonment for 2 years or a fine of $24 000.
(3)	A person must not publish any audio of a proceeding, or any part of a proceeding, heard by means of an audio link under section 106K(3)(a)(ii) of the former Act.
Penalty for this subsection: imprisonment for 2 years or a fine of $100 000.
400.	Restrictions on use of former Act recordings
(1)	In this section —
alter, a recording, has a meaning affected by section 228(1);
destroy, a recording, has a meaning affected by section 228(1).
(2)	A person must not, without authority —
(a)	be in possession of a former Act recording; or
(b)	supply or offer to supply a former Act recording to any person.
Penalty for this subsection: imprisonment for 2 years or a fine of $24 000.
(3)	A person who is in possession of a former Act recording does not commit an offence against subsection (2) by virtue of being in possession of the recording if —
(a)	the person acquired that possession before this section comes into operation; and
(b)	the possession was lawful at the time the person acquired it.
(4)	A person must not, without authority, alter or destroy or permit another person to alter or destroy a former Act recording that is an original recording.
Penalty for this subsection: imprisonment for 2 years or a fine of $24 000.
(5)	A person must not alter a copy of a former Act recording unless the person has authority to be in possession of the recording.
Penalty for this subsection: imprisonment for 2 years or a fine of $24 000.
(6)	A person must not, without authority, copy or permit another person to copy a former Act recording.
Penalty for this subsection: imprisonment for 2 years or a fine of $24 000.
(7)	A person must not, without authority, play a former Act recording.
Penalty for this subsection: imprisonment for 2 years or a fine of $24 000.
(8)	A person has authority to do a thing for the purposes of this section only if the person —
(a)	would have authority to do the thing concerned under Part 7 Division 10 if the former Act recording were a protected recording (as defined in section 299); or
(b)	is acting as authorised by regulations made for the purposes of this paragraph.
(9)	This section applies even if a proceeding in connection with which the former Act recording was made or in which the former Act recording was admitted as evidence, or a hearing of the proceeding, commenced, concluded or was terminated before repeal day.
401.	Publication of former Act recordings prohibited
(1)	A person must not publish a former Act recording except in accordance with the approval of the Supreme Court.
Penalty for this subsection: imprisonment for 2 years or a fine of $100 000.
(2)	The Supreme Court may approve the publication of a former Act recording only if satisfied that exceptional circumstances justify approval being given.
(3)	This section applies even if a proceeding in connection with which the former Act recording was made or in which the former Act recording was admitted as evidence, or a hearing of the proceeding, commenced, concluded or was terminated before repeal day.
402.	Playing or tendering altered recording in proceeding
In section 307, a reference to a protected recording is taken to include a reference to a former Act recording.
403.	Power to give directions about former Act recordings
In section 308, a reference to a protected recording is taken to include a reference to a former Act recording.
404.	Use of Justice documents
Section 310 extends to a Justice document prepared before the day on which the section comes into operation.
405.	Facilitation of proof of documents
Part 9 Divisions 3 and 4 extend to a document produced, attested, verified, signed, executed, acknowledged, printed, published, sealed or certified before the day or days on which those Divisions come into operation.
406.	Admission of police affidavits
(1)	An affidavit made before the day on which section 358 comes into operation that was substantially in the form of the Sixth Schedule to the former Act is taken to have been made in the form prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of section 358.
(2)	Accordingly, section 358 applies to the use of the affidavit in a proceeding to which this Act applies.
407.	DNA certificates given before commencement
Sections 360 and 361 apply to a certificate given by a forensic scientist under section 50B of the former Act before the day on which section 360 comes into operation in the same way as they apply to a forensic biology certificate referred to in section 360.
408.	Restrictions on publishing names of complainants
(1)	Section 381(3) applies to the publication of information in relation to a criminal proceeding on or after the day on which that section comes into operation, including if a person is charged with a sexual offence before the day on which that section comes into operation.
(2)	Section 381(3) does not apply to the publication of information in relation to a civil proceeding that commenced before the day on which that section comes into operation.
409.	Continuation of orders, directions, leave and other things done under former Act
(1)	Any order given, direction made, leave granted or other thing done under the former Act by a court, judge or person acting judicially (as that term is defined in section 3 of the former Act) that had effect immediately before repeal day continues to have effect despite the repeal of the former Act.
(2)	The former Act continues to apply in respect of the order, direction, leave or other thing as if it were still in force.
(3)	In particular —
(a)	section 11A(2) and (3) of the former Act continue to apply to any order made under section 11A(1) of the former Act; and
(b)	section 27(2) of the former Act continues to apply to any question or inquiry that is the subject of an order under section 27(1)(a) or (b) of the former Act.
410.	Saving of self-incrimination certificates given under former Act
A certificate given under section 11 or 12 of the former Act continues to have the same effect as it would have if the former Act had not been repealed.
411.	Construction of references
(1)	A reference in any other written law or in any instrument to the former Act is to be read, from repeal day, as a reference to this Act.
(2)	A reference in any other written law or in any instrument to a provision of the former Act is to be read, from repeal day, as a reference to the provision of this Act that, having regard to the reference and context in which the reference occurs, most nearly corresponds to the provision of the former Act.
(3)	This section does not apply in relation to a proceeding, a hearing of a proceeding or other matter to which this Act does not apply.
412.	Transitional regulations
(1)	In this section —
specified means specified or described in the regulations;
transitional matter —
(a)	means a matter or issue of a transitional nature that arises as a result of —
(i)	the repeal of the former Act; or
(ii)	an amendment made under Part 12; or
(iii)	the enactment of this Act;
and
(b)	includes a savings or application matter or issue.
(2)	If there is not sufficient provision in this Division for dealing with a transitional matter, regulations may prescribe anything required, necessary or convenient to be prescribed in relation to the matter.
(3)	Without limiting subsection (2), regulations made for the purposes of that subsection may provide that specified provisions of this Act —
(a)	do not apply to, or in relation to, a specified matter or thing; or
(b)	apply with specified modifications to, or in relation to, a specified matter or thing.
(4)	If regulations made for the purposes of subsection (2) provide that a specified state of affairs is taken to have existed, or not to have existed, on and from a day that is earlier than the day on which the regulations are published in accordance with the Interpretation Act 1984 section 41(1)(a) but not earlier than the day on which this section comes into operation, the regulations have effect according to their terms.
(5)	If regulations made for the purposes of subsection (2) contain a provision of a kind described in subsection (4), the provision does not operate so as to —
(a)	affect, in a manner prejudicial to any person (other than the State or an authority of the State), the rights of that person existing before the day of publication of those regulations; or
(b)	impose liabilities on any person (other than the State or an authority of the State) in respect of anything done or omitted to be done before the day of publication of those regulations.
	Part 12 — Consequential amendments to other Acts
	Division 1 — Aquatic Resources Management Act 2016 amended
413.	Act amended
This Division amends the Aquatic Resources Management Act 2016.
414.	Section 240 amended
In section 240(4) delete “Evidence Act 1906.” and insert:
Evidence Act 2025.
	Division 2 — Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Act 1970 amended
415.	Act amended
This Division amends the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Act 1970.
416.	Section 10 deleted
Delete section 10.
417.	Section 18 deleted
Delete section 18.
	Division 3 — Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited (NMRB) Act 1991 amended
418.	Act amended
This Division amends the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited (NMRB) Act 1991.
419.	Section 10 amended
Delete section 10(2) and (3).
420.	Section 18 amended
Delete section 18(2) and (3).
421.	Section 19 amended
Delete section 19(2) and (3).
	Division 4 — Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited (Town & Country) Act 1995 amended
422.	Act amended
This Division amends the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited (Town & Country) Act 1995.
423.	Section 11 amended
Delete section 11(2) and (3).
	Division 5 — Bank of Western Australia Act 1995 amended
424.	Act amended
This Division amends the Bank of Western Australia Act 1995.
425.	Section 33 amended
Delete section 33(2) and (3).
	Division 6 — Child Care Services Act 2007 amended
426.	Act amended
This Division amends the Child Care Services Act 2007.
427.	Section 44 amended
In section 44 delete “Evidence Act 1906.” and insert:
Evidence Act 2025.
Note: The heading to amended section 44 is to read:
Evidence Act 2025 not affected
428.	Section 46A inserted
After section 46 insert:
46A.	Interaction with protections in Evidence Act 2025
(1)	In this section —
child care record has the meaning given in section 46(1);
protected communication has the meaning given in the Evidence Act 2025 section 165(1);
protected disclosure provisions means the Evidence Act 2025 Part 4 Division 3.
(2)	If a child care record contains a protected communication —
(a)	a party to a criminal proceeding cannot require the production or disclosure of the protected communication except with the leave of the court in accordance with the protected disclosure provisions; and
(b)	section 46(3) and (4) do not apply to the production of the child care record in the criminal proceeding.
(3)	Section 46(5) to (8) apply to a child care record containing a protected communication that is produced in a criminal proceeding with the leave of the court under the protected disclosure provisions, or to enable the court to determine an application for leave under the protected disclosure provisions, as if the child care record had been produced in response to a requirement under section 46(2).
(4)	Section 46(5) to (8) apply to a document containing any protected information (as defined in the Education and Care Services National Law (Western Australia) section 273(3)) that is produced in a criminal proceeding with the leave of the court under the protected disclosure provisions, or to enable the court to determine an application for leave under the protected disclosure provisions, as if —
(a)	the document were a child care record; and
(b)	the document had been produced in response to a requirement under section 46(2).
	Division 7 — Children and Community Services Act 2004 amended
429.	Act amended
This Division amends the Children and Community Services Act 2004.
430.	Section 149 amended
Delete section 149(2) and insert:
(2)	Subsection (1) is subject to —
(a)	any order made in respect of the child under the Children’s Court of Western Australia Act 1988 section 31; and
(b)	the Evidence Act 2025 Part 7.
431.	Section 238A inserted
After section 238 insert:
238A.	Interaction with protections in Evidence Act 2025
(1)	In this section —
departmental record has the meaning given in section 238(1);
protected communication has the meaning given in the Evidence Act 2025 section 165(1);
protected disclosure provisions means the Evidence Act 2025 Part 4 Division 3.
(2)	If a departmental record contains a protected communication —
(a)	a party to a criminal proceeding cannot require the production of the departmental record except with the leave of the court in accordance with the protected disclosure provisions; and
(b)	section 238(3) and (4) do not apply to the production of the departmental record in the criminal proceeding.
(3)	Section 238(5) to (8) apply to a departmental record that is produced in a criminal proceeding with the leave of the court under the protected disclosure provisions, or to enable the court to determine an application for leave under the protected disclosure provisions, as if the departmental record had been produced in response to a requirement under section 238(2).
432.	Section 239 amended
After section 239(4) insert:
(5)	This section operates in addition to any restrictions on the disclosure of a protected communication (as defined in the Evidence Act 2025 section 165(1)) that are imposed by the Evidence Act 2025 Part 4 Division 3.
	Division 8 — Control of Vehicles (Off-road Areas) Act 1978 amended
433.	Act amended
This Division amends the Control of Vehicles (Off-road Areas) Act 1978.
434.	Section 28A amended
In section 28A(1)(b) delete “made pursuant to section 106 of the Evidence Act 1906,”.
	Division 9 — Corruption, Crime and Misconduct Act 2003 amended
435.	Act amended
This Division amends the Corruption, Crime and Misconduct Act 2003.
436.	Section 3 amended
In section 3(1) delete the definition of record and insert:
record includes anything that is a document as defined in the Evidence Act 2025 section 6(1) and (2);
437.	Section 94 amended
In section 94(6) delete “under section 21 of the Evidence Act 1906.” and insert:
in cross-examination under section 52 of the Evidence Act 2025 (including any questioning permitted under section 47(1)(c) of that Act).
438.	Section 145 amended
In section 145(2) delete “under section 21 of the Evidence Act 1906.” and insert:
in cross-examination under section 52 of the Evidence Act 2025 (including any questioning permitted under section 47(1)(c) of that Act).
	Division 10 — The Criminal Code amended
439.	Act amended
This Division amends The Criminal Code.
440.	Sections 540 and 541 deleted
Delete sections 540 and 541.
	Division 11 — Criminal Investigation Act 2006 amended
441.	Act amended
This Division amends the Criminal Investigation Act 2006.
442.	Section 48 amended
In section 48(4) and (5) delete “section 155.” and insert:
the Evidence Act 2025 section 204.
443.	Section 118 amended
In section 118(3)(b)(ii) delete “section 155.” and insert:
the Evidence Act 2025 section 204.
444.	Part 11A inserted
After section 124 insert:
Part 11A — Creating recorded statements for use as evidence
124A.	Terms used
In this Part —
offence includes a suspected offence;
recorded statement has the meaning given in the Evidence Act 2025 section 239;
statement admissibility regulations has the meaning given in the Evidence Act 2025 section 241(1).
124B.	Police officer may create recorded statement for use as evidence
(1)	A police officer may create a recorded statement from a person who is reasonably suspected to be the victim of an offence for use as evidence under the Evidence Act 2025 Part 7 Division 4 in a proceeding to which that Division applies.
(2)	The police officer may create the recorded statement only if —
(a)	the police officer is qualified to create a recorded statement under the statement admissibility regulations; and
(b)	the person making the statement to the police officer has reached 18 years of age.
(3)	The police officer must, before interviewing the person about the offence in a recorded statement, advise the person —
(a)	that the recorded statement may be used in evidence at a hearing; and
(b)	that the person may be called to give evidence in cross-examination or in further examination; and
(c)	about the access that the accused will have to the recorded statement if a proceeding is commenced.
124C.	Consent of person making statement
(1)	A police officer must not create a recorded statement from a person for use as evidence under the Evidence Act 2025 Part 7 Division 4 without the consent of the person making the statement.
(2)	The person is not obliged to give that consent.
124D.	Recordings to be retained by police
(1)	The Commissioner of Police must keep any recorded statement created by a police officer for use as evidence under the Evidence Act 2025 Part 7 Division 4, or a copy of it, in safe custody for at least 10 years.
(2)	If the Supreme Court is satisfied there is good cause to keep a recorded statement for more than 10 years, it may order the Commissioner of Police to keep the recorded statement for an additional period set by the Court.
(3)	The Commissioner of Police must ensure that the prosecutor in any proceedings in which the recorded statement may be admitted as the evidence in chief of a person is given a copy of the statement.
(4)	The Commissioner of Police may, in writing, authorise a person to destroy a recorded statement after the expiry of the period for which it must be kept.
(5)	The person is authorised to destroy a recorded statement in accordance with the direction of the Commissioner of Police.
(6)	The powers conferred by this section are subject to any regulations referred to in the Evidence Act 2025 section 249.
445.	Section 138 amended
In section 138(2)(b) delete “suspect;” and insert:
suspect that the arrested suspect does not have to say or do anything but that anything the arrested suspect does say or do may be used in evidence;
446.	Section 154 amended
Delete section 154(2)(d) and insert:
(d)	the court decides otherwise under the Evidence Act 2025 section 204; or
447.	Section 155 deleted
Delete section 155.
	Division 12 — Criminal Procedure Act 2004 amended
448.	Act amended
This Division amends the Criminal Procedure Act 2004.
449.	Section 42 amended
In section 42(1) in the definition of evidentiary material paragraph (a)(iii) delete “Evidence Act 1906” and insert:
Evidence Act 2025
450.	Section 64 amended
Delete section 64(1)(d) and insert:
(d)	permit the accused to make any admission or give any consent under the Evidence Act 2025 section 368;
451.	Section 88 amended
(1)	In section 88(1) in the definition of proceedings delete “Evidence Act 1906,” and insert:
Evidence Act 2025,
(2)	After section 88(5) insert:
(5A)	The operation of this section is subject to the Evidence Act 2025.
452.	Section 98 amended
Delete section 98(2)(g) and insert:
(g)	may permit the accused to make any admission or give any consent under the Evidence Act 2025 section 368;
453.	Section 109 amended
Delete section 109(1) and insert:
(1)	The judge may at any time make an order under the Evidence Act 2025 section 64 that the jury inspect a place or thing and may give any orders necessary for the inspection to take place.
Note: The heading to amended section 109 is to read:
Inspection by jury
454.	Section 119 amended
Delete section 119(2).
455.	Section 137A amended
Delete section 137A(a) and insert:
(a)	section 137B; and
(aaa)	the Evidence Act 2025 sections 166, 236(10), 242(3), 254(3), 300(1) and 400(2); and
456.	Section 137B inserted
After section 137A insert:
137B.	Restrictions on disclosure of recorded evidence
(1)	In this section —
evidentiary material has the meaning given by section 42;
serve, a person, means to serve the person in accordance with Schedule 2 clause 2, 3 or 4.
(2)	A prosecutor must not serve on an accused a copy of any recording or recorded statement if —
(a)	it is a recording to which Schedule 3 clause 8 applies; or
(b)	the accused is not entitled to be in possession of the recording or recorded statement under the Evidence Act 2025 section 236(10), 242(3), 254(3), 300(1) or 400(2).
(3)	If another provision of this Act requires a prosecutor to serve on an accused evidentiary material that is a copy of a recording or a recorded statement, and subsection (2) applies to the copy of the recording or recorded statement other than because of the Evidence Act 2025 section 254(3), the prosecutor must comply with that requirement by —
(a)	serving a copy of the recording or recorded statement on the accused’s legal practitioner; or
(b)	if the accused is not represented by a legal practitioner —
(i)	serving a transcript of the recording or recorded statement on the accused; and
(ii)	giving the accused a reasonable opportunity to view the recording or recorded statement in accordance with any applicable requirements of the Evidence Act 2025.
(4)	If another provision of this Act requires a prosecutor to serve on an accused evidentiary material that is a copy of a recording or a recorded statement, and subsection (2) applies to the copy of the recording or recorded statement because of the Evidence Act 2025 section 254(3), the prosecutor must comply with that requirement by —
(a)	serving a transcript of the recording or recorded statement on the accused’s legal practitioner or, if the accused is not represented by a legal practitioner, the accused; and
(b)	giving the accused and the accused’s legal practitioner a reasonable opportunity to view the recording or recorded statement in accordance with any applicable requirements of the Evidence Act 2025.
(5)	A prosecutor who complies with subsection (3) or (4) is taken, for the purposes of this Act, to have served a copy of the relevant evidentiary material on the accused.
(6)	This section applies to any relevant authorised officer (as defined in section 80) who is required by this Act to serve evidentiary material on an accused in the same way as it applies to a prosecutor.
457.	Section 144 amended
In section 144(2) delete “Evidence Act 1906” and insert:
Evidence Act 2025
458.	Section 168 amended
Delete section 168(4) and insert:
(4)	Subsection (1) does not affect the operation of the Evidence Act 2025 sections 357 to 359.
459.	Section 171 amended
(1)	In section 171(4):
(a)	in paragraph (c) delete “offence.” and insert:
offence;
(b)	after paragraph (c) insert:
(d)	order that robes not be worn by any judge or magistrate, or any legal practitioners, during the whole of the proceedings, or a part of them specified by the court.
(2)	After section 171(6) insert:
(6A)	An order made under subsection (4)(a) may allow any persons or class of persons excluded or directed to leave to observe or listen to the whole or part of the proceedings by means of a video link or audio link.
460.	Section 172 amended
In section 172(2) delete “Evidence Act 1906” and insert:
Evidence Act 2025
461.	Schedule 3 clause 2 replaced
Delete Schedule 3 clause 2 and insert:
2.	Evidence Act 2025 not affected
This Schedule is in addition to and does not limit the operation of the Evidence Act 2025.
462.	Schedule 3 clause 6 amended
Delete Schedule 3 clause 6(3) and insert:
(3)	A court conducting an examination of a witness under this clause is not prevented from making orders under the Evidence Act 2025 Part 7 in relation to the witness.
463.	Schedule 3 clause 7 amended
In Schedule 3 clause 7(1):
(a)	in paragraph (e) delete “witness.” and insert:
witness; or
(b)	after paragraph (e) insert:
(f)	that all the parties consent to the statement or recording being admitted as the whole or part of the evidence in chief of the witness and that the witness is available to give further evidence in the proceeding if required.
464.	Schedule 3 clause 8 inserted
After Schedule 3 clause 7 insert:
8.	Access of accused to some recorded evidence restricted
(1)	In this clause —
special procedure for giving evidence has the meaning given in the Evidence Act 2025 section 228(1).
(2)	A court that conducts an examination under clause 6 must not give to the accused a copy of an electronic recording of a witness’s evidence at the examination if —
(a)	the evidence of the witness at the examination is given using a special procedure for giving evidence; or
(b)	the court considers that any evidence of the witness at trial may be given using a special procedure for giving evidence.
(3)	If this clause prevents the court from giving an accused a copy of an electronic recording of a witness’s evidence, the court must comply with clause 6(7) by —
(a)	giving a copy of the recording to the accused’s legal practitioner; or
(b)	if the accused is not represented by a legal practitioner, giving a transcript of the recording to the accused.
(4)	If an accused is not given a copy of an electronic recording of evidence given at an examination under clause 6 because the accused is not represented by a legal practitioner, the recording of evidence is not admissible in evidence under clause 7 unless the court is satisfied that the prosecutor has given the accused a reasonable opportunity to view the recording (if it is an audio visual recording) or to hear the recording (if it is an audio recording).
	Division 13 — Criminal Property Confiscation Act 2000 amended
465.	Act amended
This Division amends the Criminal Property Confiscation Act 2000.
466.	Sections 109A to 109E inserted
After section 109 insert:
109A.	Terms used
(1)	In this section and sections 109B to 109D —
business record means a book of account or other document prepared or used in the ordinary course of a business for the purpose of recording any matter relating to the business;
derived means derived, by the use of a computer or otherwise, by calculation, comparison, selection, sorting, consolidation or by accounting, statistical or logical procedures;
qualified person, in relation to a statement, means a person who —
(a)	if the statement is not admissible in evidence unless made by an expert on the subject of the statement — was at the time of making of the statement such an expert; or
(b)	otherwise — had, at the time of making of the statement, or may reasonably be supposed to have had at that time, personal knowledge of the matters dealt with by the statement;
statement includes any representation of fact or opinion whether made in words or otherwise.
(2)	A reference in subsection (1) to a business includes a reference to the following —
(a)	a profession, calling, occupation, trade or undertaking;
(b)	an activity engaged in or carried on by the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory;
(c)	an activity engaged in or carried on by the government of a foreign country;
(d)	an activity engaged in or carried on by a person or body holding office or exercising power under or because of the Commonwealth Constitution, an Australian law or a law of a foreign country, being an activity engaged in or carried on in the performance of the functions of the office or in the exercise of the power (otherwise than in a private capacity);
(e)	the proceedings of an Australian Parliament, a House of an Australian Parliament, a committee of a House of an Australian Parliament or a committee of an Australian Parliament;
(f)	the proceedings of a legislature of a foreign country, including a House or committee (however described) of a legislature of a foreign country.
(3)	A reference in subsection (1) to a business also includes a reference to each of the following —
(a)	a business that is not engaged in or carried on for profit;
(b)	a business engaged in or carried on outside Australia.
109B.	Admissibility of business records
(1)	Subsection (2) applies if, in a proceeding on an application under this Act, oral evidence of a fact or opinion would be admissible.
(2)	A statement in a document and tending to establish the fact or opinion is, on production of the document, admissible as evidence of that fact or opinion, if —
(a)	the statement is, or directly or indirectly reproduces, or is derived from, a business record; and
(b)	the court is satisfied that the business record is a genuine business record.
(3)	If a statement referred to in subsection (2) is made by a qualified person, that person must not be called as a witness unless the court otherwise orders.
(4)	This section —
(a)	makes a statement admissible despite —
(i)	the hearsay rule as defined in the Evidence Act 2025 section 3(1); and
(ii)	the rules against secondary evidence of the contents of a document; and
(iii)	if applicable, the fact that the person who made the statement, or the person who made a statement from which the information in the statement is reproduced or derived, is a witness in the proceeding (whether or not the person gives evidence consistent or inconsistent with the statement); and
(iv)	if applicable, the fact that the statement is in such a form that it would not be admissible if given as oral evidence;
but
(b)	does not make admissible a statement that is otherwise inadmissible.
(5)	For the purpose of deciding under subsection (2) whether or not a statement is admissible as evidence, the court may draw any reasonable inference from —
(a)	the form or contents of the document containing the statement; or
(b)	any other circumstances.
109C.	Weight of evidence admitted under s. 109B
(1)	This section applies to a court estimating the weight, if any, to be given to a statement admitted as evidence in a proceeding under section 109B.
(2)	The court must have regard to all the circumstances from which any inference can reasonably be drawn as to the accuracy or otherwise of the statement, including —
(a)	the question of whether or not the statement was made contemporaneously with the occurrence or existence of the facts stated; and
(b)	the question of whether or not the qualified person, or any person concerned with making or keeping the document containing the statement, had any incentive to conceal or misrepresent the facts; and
(c)	the question of whether or not the information in the statement was of a kind that was collected systematically; and
(d)	the question of whether or not the information in the statement was collected under a duty to do so; and
(e)	if the statement wholly or partly reproduces or is derived from information from 1 or more devices — the reliability of the device or devices; and
(f)	if the statement reproduces or is derived from any information — the reliability of the means of reproduction or derivation.
109D.	Evidence as to credibility of qualified persons
(1)	This section applies if —
(a)	a statement is admitted as evidence in a proceeding under section 109B; and
(b)	the qualified person who made the statement is not called as a witness in the proceeding.
(2)	Evidence that, if the qualified person had been called, would have been admissible under the Evidence Act 2025 Part 3 Division 7 Subdivision 2 for the purpose of destroying or supporting the person’s credibility is admissible in the proceeding for that purpose.
(3)	Evidence tending to prove that, whether before or after the qualified person made the statement, the person made another statement (whether orally, in a document or otherwise) inconsistent with the statement is admissible in the proceeding for the purpose of showing that the person has contradicted themself.
(4)	Nothing in subsection (2) or (3) allows evidence to be given of a matter if, had the qualified person been called as a witness and denied the matter in cross-examination, evidence of that matter could not have been adduced by the cross-examining party.
(5)	Evidence proving that the qualified person has been convicted of an indictable offence is admissible in the proceeding to the same extent as it would be if —
(a)	the person had been called; and
(b)	on being questioned as to whether or not the person had been convicted of an indictable offence, the person had —
(i)	denied the fact; or
(ii)	not admitted the fact; or
(iii)	refused to answer the question.
109E.	Dispute as to happening of event
(1)	Subsection (2) applies if —
(a)	in a proceeding on an application under this Act the happening of an event of a particular kind is in question; and
(b)	a system has been followed of making and keeping a record of the occurrence of all events of that kind.
(2)	Oral or other evidence to establish that there is no record of the happening of the event is admissible in the proceeding to prove that the event did not happen.
(3)	If evidence is, or is proposed to be, tendered in a proceeding under subsection (2), the court may —
(a)	order that the whole or part of the record be produced; and
(b)	if the order is not complied with —
(i)	reject the evidence; or
(ii)	if the evidence has been received, exclude it.
(4)	Subsection (5) applies to a court estimating the weight, if any, to be given to evidence admitted in a proceeding under subsection (2).
(5)	The court must have regard to all the circumstances from which any inference can reasonably be drawn as to the accuracy or otherwise of the evidence, including whether or not any person concerned with the making or keeping of the relevant record had any incentive to omit recording the happening of the event in question.
467.	Glossary clause 1 amended
In the Glossary clause 1 delete the definition of document and insert:
document has the meaning given in the Evidence Act 2025 section 6(1) and (2);
	Division 14 — High Risk Serious Offenders Act 2020 amended
468.	Act amended
This Division amends the High Risk Serious Offenders Act 2020.
469.	Section 39 amended
Delete section 39(5)(a) and insert:
(a)	the Evidence Act 2025 sections 166, 236(10), 242(3), 254(3), 300(1) and 400(2); and
470.	Section 69 amended
Delete section 69(3)(d) and insert:
(d)	a decision under the Evidence Act 2025 section 169 to give or refuse leave to disclose or require disclosure of a protected communication in or in connection with a restriction order application;
	Division 15 — Juries Act 1957 amended
471.	Act amended
This Division amends the Juries Act 1957.
472.	Part VIII heading amended
In the heading to Part VIII delete “View,” and insert:
Inspections and
473.	Section 51 amended
(1)	In section 51(1):
(a)	delete “an order,” and insert:
an order under the Evidence Act 2025 section 64,
(b)	delete “have a view of” and insert:
inspect
(c)	delete “the view” and insert:
the inspection
(2)	In section 51(2) and (3) delete “viewers” and insert:
inspectors
Note: The heading to amended section 51 is to read:
Inspection by jury on a civil trial
	Division 16 — Licensed Surveyors Act 1909 amended
474.	Act amended
This Division amends the Licensed Surveyors Act 1909.
475.	Section 8B amended
In section 8B delete “section 11 of the Evidence Act 1906,” and insert:
the Evidence Act 2025 section 186,
476.	Third Schedule amended
In the Third Schedule delete “And I make this solemn declaration by virtue of section 106 of the Evidence Act 1906.”.
	Division 17 — Privacy and Responsible Information Sharing Act 2024 amended
477.	Act amended
This Division amends the Privacy and Responsible Information Sharing Act 2024.
478.	Section 158 amended
Delete section 158(1)(b)(i) and insert:
(i)	the identity of a person who is a complainant (as defined in the Evidence Act 2025 section 3(1)) in relation to a sexual offence (as defined in section 3(1) of that Act); or
	Division 18 — Restraining Orders Act 1997 amended
479.	Act amended
This Division amends the Restraining Orders Act 1997.
480.	Section 53B replaced
Delete section 53B and insert:
53B.	Evidence of children
(1)	In this section —
pre-recording procedure has the meaning given in the Evidence Act 2025 section 228(1);
video link separation procedure has the meaning given in the Evidence Act 2025 section 3(1).
(2)	This section applies if —
(a)	in accordance with section 53A, a child is giving oral evidence in any proceedings under this Act; and
(b)	the necessary facilities and equipment for that evidence to be given using a video link separation procedure are available.
(3)	The child’s evidence must be given using a video link separation procedure.
(4)	This section does not apply if the evidence of the child is given using a pre-recording procedure.
	Division 19 — Spent Convictions Act 1988 amended
481.	Act amended
This Division amends the Spent Convictions Act 1988.
482.	Section 14 replaced
Delete section 14 and insert:
14.	Division 4 does not apply to proceedings in which laws of evidence apply
(1)	Division 4 does not apply —
(a)	to a proceeding in a court or tribunal that applies the laws of evidence; or
(b)	to the making of any decision by a court or tribunal that applies the laws of evidence.
(2)	Division 4 does not affect the operation of the Evidence Act 2025, in particular section 357.
(3)	A court, tribunal or judge that receives evidence of a spent conviction must take any steps that are reasonably available to prevent or minimise publication of a spent conviction.
14A.	Division 4 does not affect Commissioner of Police acting under s. 7
Division 4 does not affect the Commissioner of Police acting under section 7.
	Division 20 — Supreme Court Act 1935 amended
483.	Act amended
This Division amends the Supreme Court Act 1935.
484.	Section 42 amended
In section 42(1)(b) delete “seduction,”.
485.	Section 172 deleted
Delete section 172.
	Division 21 — The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited (Merger) Act 1982 amended
486.	Act amended
This Division amends The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited (Merger) Act 1982.
487.	Section 11 amended
Delete section 11(2) and (3).
	Division 22 — The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited (Merger) Act 1982 amended
488.	Act amended
This Division amends The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited (Merger) Act 1982.
489.	Section 10 amended
Delete section 10(2) and (3).
	Division 23 — Westpac Banking Corporation (Challenge Bank) Act 1996 amended
490.	Act amended
This Division amends the Westpac Banking Corporation (Challenge Bank) Act 1996.
491.	Section 15 amended
Delete section 15(2) and (3).
	Division 24 — Other Acts amended
492.	Various references to “Evidence Act 1906” amended
(1)	In the provisions listed in the Table:
(a)	 delete “Evidence Act 1906” and insert:
Evidence Act 2025
(b)	delete “Evidence Act 1906” and insert:
Evidence Act 2025
Table
Architects Act 2004
s. 75(6)
Biodiversity Conservation Act 2016
s. 254
Biosecurity and Agriculture Management Act 2007
s. 124
Building Act 2011
s. 137
Building Services (Complaint Resolution and Administration) Act 2011
s. 108(4)
Building Services (Registration) Act 2011
s. 103(4)
Cat Act 2011
s. 75(3)
Dangerous Goods Safety Act 2004
s. 58(7)
Emergency Management Act 2005
s. 99(4)
Energy Operators (Powers) Act 1979
s. 87(4)(a)
Family Court Act 1997
s. 202H(2)
s. 202H(6) def. of excluded rules of evidence
s. 219AA
Family Provision Act 1972
s. 21A(13)
Health Services Act 2016
s. 225
Legislation Act 2021
s. 7 note
Liquor Control Act 1988
s. 16(7)
Local Government Act 1995
s. 9.32
Medicines and Poisons Act 2014
s. 125(3)
National Disability Insurance Scheme (Worker Screening) Act 2020
s. 77(6)
State Administrative Tribunal Act 2004
s. 32(2)
State Records Act 2000
s. 79(6)
Teacher Registration Act 2012
s. 120
Tobacco Products Control Act 2006
s. 113(6)
Veterinary Practice Act 2021
s. 148
Water Services Act 2012
s. 206
Waterways Conservation Act 1976
s. 75(9)(a)
Western Australian Marine Act 1982
s. 126(3)
Workers Compensation and Injury Management Act 2023
s. 336(2)
Working with Children (Screening) Act 2004
s. 44(6)
(2)	Amend the provisions listed in the Table as set out in the Table.
Table
Provision
Delete
Insert
1.	Architects Act 2004
s. 13
Evidence Act 1906 section 11
Evidence Act 2025 section 186
2.	Auditor General Act 2006
s. 36(4)
Evidence Act 1906 section 21
Evidence Act 2025 section 52
3.	Civil Liability Act 2002
s. 3A(1) Table it. 1(b)
Evidence Act 1906 section 36A
Evidence Act 2025 section 3(1)
4.	Community Protection (Offender Reporting) Act 2004
s. 85G(1) def. of prescribed offence
Evidence Act 1906 section 36A
Evidence Act 2025 section 3(1)
5.	Courts and Tribunals (Electronic Processes Facilitation) Act 2013
s. 6(1)(j)
Evidence Act 1906 (other than section 19B)
Evidence Act 2025
6.	Criminal Appeals Act 2004
s. 40(1)(d)
Evidence Act 1906 section 9
Evidence Act 2025 section 28
7.	District Court of Western Australia Act 1969
s. 5(3)
within the meaning of the term “Court” in the Evidence Act 1906, and
for the purposes of the Evidence Act 2025 and
8.	Education Service Providers (Full Fee Overseas Students) Registration Act 1991
s. 33
section 11 of the Evidence Act 1906
the Evidence Act 2025 section 186
9.	Fair Trading Act 2010
s. 86(2)
Evidence Act 1906 section 11
Evidence Act 2025 section 186
10.	Finance Brokers Control Act 1975
s. 18E
section 11 of the Evidence Act 1906
the Evidence Act 2025 section 186
11.	Magistrates Court (Civil Proceedings) Act 2004
s. 16(1)(l)
Evidence Act 1906 section 120
Evidence Act 2025 section 3(1)
12.	Mental Health Act 2014
s. 4 def. of document
Evidence Act 1906 section 79B
Evidence Act 2025 section 6(1) and (2)
13.	Oaths, Affidavits and Statutory Declarations Act 2005
s. 7(3)
Evidence Act 1906 section 120
Evidence Act 2025 section 3(1)
14.	Petroleum Products Pricing Act 1983
s. 24(2)
section 11 of the Evidence Act 1906
the Evidence Act 2025 section 186
15.	Royal Commissions Act 1968
s. 4 def. of documents
section 79B of the Evidence Act 1906
the Evidence Act 2025 section 6(1) and (2)
s. 8A(8)
section 21 of the Evidence Act 1906
the Evidence Act 2025 section 52
16.	Teacher Registration Act 2012
s. 48C(7)
s. 68A(5)
s. 77B(5)
Evidence Act 1906 section 11
Evidence Act 2025 section 186
s. 118(3A)
Evidence Act 1906 section 36C
Evidence Act 2025 section 381
17.	Transfer of Land Act 1893
s. 9(2)
section 55 or 56 of the Evidence Act 1906
the Evidence Act 2025 section 337
18.	Veterinary Practice Act 2021
s. 95(4)
s. 116(4)
Evidence Act 1906 section 11
Evidence Act 2025 section 186
Note:	In the Acts listed in the Table, the headings to the amended sections listed in the Table are to read as set out in the Table.
Table
Amended section
Section heading
1.	Biodiversity Conservation Act 2016
s. 254
Provisions in addition to Evidence Act 2025
2.	Biosecurity and Agriculture Management Act 2007
s. 124
Provisions in addition to Evidence Act 2025
3.	Building Act 2011
s. 137
Evidence Act 2025 not excluded
4.	Family Court Act 1997
s. 219AA
Evidence Act 2025 not excluded
5.	Health Services Act 2016
s. 225
Evidence Act 2025 not affected
6.	Local Government Act 1995
s. 9.32
Evidence Act 2025 not excluded
7.	Teacher Registration Act 2012
s. 120
Evidence Act 2025 not affected
8.	Veterinary Practice Act 2021
s. 148
Evidence Act 2025 not affected
9.	Water Services Act 2012
s. 206
Provisions in addition to Evidence Act 2025
Defined terms
[This is a list of terms defined and the provisions where they are defined. The list is not part of the law.]
Defined term	Provision(s)
accredited witness intermediary	284
accused	3(1)
acquittal	357(1)
admission	3(1)
affected child	228(1)
AFP employee	359(1)
AFP special member	359(1)
agreed fact	372(1)
aircraft	365(1)
alleged sexual interest or act	114(6)
alter	228(1), 400(1)
applicable court	357(1)
asserted fact	3(1), 72(1)
assistance application	221(1), 222(1)
assistance order	221(1), 223(1)
audio link	3(1)
Australia	3(1)
Australian court	3(1)
Australian law	3(1)
Australian or overseas proceeding	3(1)
Australian Parliament	3(1)
Australian Statistician	340(1)
authorised officer	361(1)
authorised person	352(1)
business	3(1), 4(1) and (2)
case	3(1)
child	3(1)
child protection proceeding	228(1)
child sexual offence	114(1)
civil proceeding	3(1)
client	3(1), 148(1)
co-accused	3(1)
coincidence evidence	3(1)
coincidence rule	3(1)
Commonwealth record	335(1)
communication directions	293, 294(1)
complainant	3(1)
confidant	158(1)
confidential communication	148(1)
confidential document	148(1)
copy	58
corresponding legislation	207
corresponding provision	187(5), 189(5)
counselling communication	164(1), 165(2)
counsellor	165(2)
counsels	164(1), 165(4)
court	3(1)
credibility	3(1)
credibility evidence	119
credibility rule	3(1)
criminal or identified organisation	3(1)
criminal or identified organisation offence	3(1)
criminal proceeding	3(1)
cross-examination	3(1), 5(2)
cross-examiner	3(1)
delay	316
Department	310(1)
destroy	228(1), 400(1)
Director of Public Prosecutions	299
disability	3(1)
disallowable question	50(1)
discloses	164(1), 166(2)
disclosure certificate	185, 188(7)
disclosure order	185
disclosure requirement	183(1)
dispute	194(1)
DNA profile	360(4)
document	3(1), 6(1) and (2)
document in question	58
duties Act	62(1)
electronic communication	3(1)
eligible service	378(1) and (2)
evidence certificate	185, 186(7)
evidence of family violence	137(1)
examination	216(1), 360(1)
examination in chief	3(1), 5(1)
excluded party	275, 276(1)
exclusion order	179, 181(1)
expert	138(1)
expert certificate	356(1)
external Territory	3(1)
extra-territorial examination order	216(1), 217(1)
family member	136
family violence	3(1)
family violence direction matter	147(1)
family violence offence	3(1)
foreign court	3(1)
forensic biology certificate	360(3), 361(2)
forensic scientist	360(1)
former Act	388
former Act recording	388
government or official gazette	3(1)
government or official website	3(1)
ground rules hearing	3(1), 295(1)
harm	3(1)
hearsay rule	3(1)
help-seeking behaviour	136
identification evidence	3(1), 133
identification record	133
identifying evidence	181(2)
immunity certificate	191(4)
incriminate	185
inference	104(1)
inferior court	216(1)
informant	179
inquest	378(1)
interview admissibility regulations	251, 253(1)
investigating official	3(1)
joint sitting	25(1)
journalist	179
journalist privilege	179
judge	3(1)
judicial authority	216(1)
Justice document	310(1)
law	3(1), 10(1) and (2)
leading question	3(1)
legal counsel	3(1)
legal representative	148(1)
liable person	378(1)
matter raised by evidence	55(1)
mental impairment	3(1)
minister of religion	3(1)
misconduct	179
news medium	179
offence	3(1)
office holder	337(1)
offspring	3(1), 13(1)
opinion rule	3(1)
original document	62(2)
out-of-court representation	228(1), 235
parent	3(1), 13(2)
participating jurisdiction	207
party	3(1), 148(1)
person acting judicially	3(1)
personal knowledge of the asserted fact	75(2) and (3)
police-assisted identification evidence	133
police officer	3(1)
postal article	348(1)
power	156(1), 194(1)
preliminary question	370(1)
pre-recording order	261, 262(1)
pre-recording procedure	228(1)
previous representation	3(1), 75(1)
prior consistent statement	3(1)
prior inconsistent statement	3(1)
privilege affidavit	188(2)
probative value	3(1)
proceeding	3(1)
prosecutor	3(1)
protected communication	3(1), 165(1)
protected confidence	158(1)
protected confider	158(1)
protected identity information	158(1)
protected person	164(1)
protected recording	299
public document	3(1), 6(3) and (4)
publish	3(1)
recognised court	207
recorded interview	228(1), 251
recorded statement	228(1), 239
recorded statement provisions	385(1)
re-examination	3(1), 5(3)
related proceeding	3(1)
relevant person	188(1)
religious confession	200(1)
repeal day	388
representation	3(1)
request	323
requesting court	221(1)
requesting party	323
require disclosure	164(1), 166(3)
safety option	136
screening procedure	3(1)
seal	3(1)
sexual abuse	3(1)
sexual offence	3(1)
sexual offence complainant	3(1)
shipping document	365(1)
special hearing	261
special procedure for giving evidence	228(1)
special witness	3(1), 228(1)
specified	412(1)
stamped	62(1)
statement admissibility regulations	239, 241(1)
superior court	3(1)
support animal	232(1)
supporting affidavit	164(1), 167(1)
support person	164(1)
tendency evidence	3(1)
tendency rule	3(1)
tendency sexual interest or act	114(6)
thing	360(1)
third party	98(1)
traditional laws and customs	3(1)
transitional matter	411(1)
tribunal	3(1)
vehicle	365(1)
vessel	365(1)
video link	3(1)
video link separation order	275, 276(1)
video link separation procedure	3(1)
visual recording	228(1)
WA tribunal	3(1)
witness	3(1)
witness assessment	228(1), 289(1)
witness intermediary	228(1)
witness intermediary service	284
working day	348(1)
© State of Western Australia 2025.This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Licence (CC BY 4.0). To view relevant information and for a link to a copy of the licence, visit www.legislation.wa.gov.au.Attribute work as: © State of Western Australia 2025.By Authority: GEOFF O. LAWN, Government Printer© State of Western Australia 2025.This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Licence (CC BY 4.0). To view relevant information and for a link to a copy of the licence, visit www.legislation.wa.gov.au.Attribute work as: © State of Western Australia 2025.By Authority: GEOFF O. LAWN, Government Printer
© State of Western Australia 2025.
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Licence (CC BY 4.0). To view relevant information and for a link to a copy of the licence, visit www.legislation.wa.gov.au.
Attribute work as: © State of Western Australia 2025.
By Authority: GEOFF O. LAWN, Government Printer
© State of Western Australia 2025.
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Licence (CC BY 4.0). To view relevant information and for a link to a copy of the licence, visit www.legislation.wa.gov.au.
Attribute work as: © State of Western Australia 2025.
By Authority: GEOFF O. LAWN, Government Printer
