THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                        PLANT VARIETIES

                    PROTECTION ACT 2004

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
                                                                   2020 Ed.

            Plant Varieties
         Protection Act 2004

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                                 PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Act to bind Government
     2.  Application of Act
     3.
     4.

                                        PART 2

                                ADMINISTRATION

 5. Registrar of Plant Varieties and other officers
 6. Delegation by Registrar
 7. Registry of Plant Varieties
 8. Seal of Registry
 9. Powers of Registrar
10. Disobedience to summons an offence
11. Refusal to give evidence an offence
12. Costs awarded by Registrar

                                        PART 3

              APPLICATION FOR GRANT OF PROTECTION

13. Application for grant of protection
14. Priority resulting from foreign application
15. Publication
16. Objections to denomination and grant of protection
17. Examination of plant variety
18. Corresponding examination
19. Withdrawal or lapse of application
20. Provisional protection

                                 1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
          Plant Varieties

2020 Ed.  Protection Act 2004                                              2

          PART 4

          GRANT AND REVOCATION OF PROTECTION

Section   Making of grant of protection
   21.    Conditions for grant of protection
   22.    Varieties bred or discovered and developed by 2 or more persons
   23.    independently
          Term of grant of protection
   24.    Grounds of invalidity of grant of protection
   25.    Cancellation of grant of protection
   26.    Renunciation of grantee’s right
   27.

                                        PART 5

          SCOPE AND NATURE OF GRANT OF PROTECTION

28. Scope and nature of grant of protection
29. Essentially derived and certain other plant varieties
30. Infringement of grant of protection
31. Exceptions to infringement of grant of protection
32. Exhaustion of grant of protection

                                        PART 6
           AUTHORISATION AND COMPULSORY LICENCES

33. Rights under authorisation
34. Compulsory licences

                                        PART 7
                           NOTICE OF PROTECTION
35. Notice of protection

                                        PART 8

                                 DENOMINATION

36. Approval and registration of denomination
37. Use of denomination
38. Invalidation of registration of denomination

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
         Plant Varieties

3        Protection Act 2004                                       2020 Ed.

         PART 9

         REGISTER OF PLANT VARIETIES

Section  Register to be maintained
         Inspection of and extract from register
   39.   Rectification of register
   40.   Changes reflected in register
   41.   Registration to be prima facie evidence of validity
   42.
   43.

                                          PART 10

                                         OFFENCES

   44. Falsification of register
   45. Falsely representing plant variety as protected variety
   46. Misuse of denomination

                                           PART 11

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   47. Registrar not liable in respect of official acts
   48. Right of appeal
   49. Forms and directions of Registrar
   49A. Amendment of documents
   50. Fees
   51. Hours of business and excluded days
   52. Composition of offences
   53. Jurisdiction of court
   54. Rules

An Act to provide for the protection of plant varieties.
                                                                  [1 July 2004]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Plant Varieties Protection Act 2004.

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
                Plant Varieties

2020 Ed.        Protection Act 2004                                 4

Interpretation

2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
    “applicant”, in relation to any application, means the person by
        whom or on whose behalf the application is made;

    “application” means an application for a grant of protection;

“breeder”, in relation to any plant variety, means —

          (a) subject to paragraph (b), a person who bred, or
               discovered and developed, the plant variety;

          (b) if the plant variety was bred, or discovered and
               developed, by a person in the course of performing
               the person’s duties or functions as an employee of
               another person, that other person; or

        (c) the successor in title to the person in paragraph (a) or
             (b) (as the case may be);

“Convention” means the international agreement called the
   International Convention for the Protection of New Varieties
   of Plants of 2 December 1961, as revised or amended from
   time to time;

“Court” means the General Division of the High Court;

“denomination” means the distinguishing name or identification
   for a plant variety;

“Examiner” means any person, organisation or entity (including
   an international plant variety office or organisation, or a plant
   variety office or an organisation of a country or territory other
   than Singapore) appointed by the Registrar for the purpose of
   referring any question or matter relating to the examination of
   a plant variety for a grant of protection;

                                                                        [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

“grant of protection” means a grant of protection made by the
   Registrar under section 21;

“grantee” means the holder of a grant of protection;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
   Plant Varieties

5  Protection Act 2004                                       2020 Ed.

   “harvested material” means any harvested material to which the
      rights of a grantee under section 28(1) are extended by virtue
      of section 28(7);

   “Office” means the Intellectual Property Office of Singapore
      incorporated under the Intellectual Property Office of
      Singapore Act 2001;

   “plant” includes all fungi and algae but does not include
      bacteria, bacteroids, mycoplasmas, viruses, viroids and
      bacteriophages;

   “plant variety” means a plant grouping within a single botanical
      taxon of the lowest rank which, irrespective of whether the
      conditions for a grant of protection are fully met, can be —

   (a) defined by the expression of the characteristics
        resulting from a given genotype or a combination
        of genotypes;

   (b) distinguished from any other plant grouping by the
        expression of at least one of those characteristics; and

   (c) considered as a unit with regard to its suitability for
       being propagated unchanged;

   “procedural representative”, in relation to any plant variety,
      means a person who is resident or has an office in Singapore
      and who is appointed by the breeder of that variety to act on
      the breeder’s behalf in respect of the making of any
      application for, or any proceedings relating to, a grant of
      protection for that variety;

   “propagating material”, in relation to a plant of a particular plant
      variety, means any part or product from which, whether alone
      or in combination with other parts or products of that plant,
      another plant with the same essential characteristics can be
      produced;

   “propagation”, in relation to a plant or any of its components,
      means the growth, culture or multiplication of that plant or
      component;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
          Plant Varieties

2020 Ed.  Protection Act 2004                                       6

“protected variety” means a plant variety in respect of which a
   grant of protection is in force, and includes any essentially
   derived or other plant variety to which the grant of protection
   is extended by virtue of section 29(1);

“register” means the register of plant varieties maintained under
   section 39;

“Registrar” means the Registrar of Plant Varieties mentioned in
   section 5;

“Registry” means the Registry of Plant Varieties mentioned in
   section 7;

“relevant characteristics”, in relation to any plant variety, means
   the phenotypical and genotypical expressions of the variety
   that permit its identification;

“term”, in relation to a grant of protection, means the term of the
   grant of protection under section 24;

“UPOV member” means a state or an inter-governmental party
   to the Convention which is a member of the International
   Union for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants
   constituted pursuant to the Convention.

                               [2/2007; 16/2014; 40/2019]

Act to bind Government

 3. This Act binds the Government but nothing in this Act renders
the Government liable to be prosecuted for an offence.

Application of Act
 4. This Act applies to all plant genera and species.

                                                                    [16/2014]

                                    PART 2
                            ADMINISTRATION

Registrar of Plant Varieties and other officers
 5.—(1) There is to be a Registrar of Plant Varieties who has the

chief control of the Registry of Plant Varieties.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
   Plant Varieties

7  Protection Act 2004                                       2020 Ed.

 (2) There are to be one or more Deputy Registrars of Plant Varieties
who is to, subject to the control of the Registrar, have all the powers
and functions of the Registrar under this Act, other than the powers of
the Registrar under section 6.

 (3) There are to be one or more Assistant Registrars of Plant
Varieties.

 (4) The Registrar and all the other officers under this section must
be appointed by the Minister.

Delegation by Registrar

 6.—(1) The Registrar may, in relation to a particular matter or class
of matters, by writing under the hand of the Registrar, delegate all or
any of his or her powers or functions under this Act (except this
power of delegation) to an Assistant Registrar of Plant Varieties, any
public officer, or any person with the relevant qualifications for or
experience in the matter or class of matters, so that the delegated
powers and functions may be exercised by the delegate with respect
to the matter or class of matters specified in the instrument of
delegation.

                                                                                                           [16/2014]

 (2) A delegation under this section is revocable at will and no
delegation prevents the exercise of a power or function by the
Registrar or by any Deputy Registrar of Plant Varieties.

 (3) Where the delegate is a person with the relevant qualifications
or experience mentioned in subsection (1), he or she is, when
exercising the delegated powers or functions, deemed to be a public
servant for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

                                                                                                           [16/2014]

Registry of Plant Varieties

 7. For the purposes of this Act, there is an office which is known as
the Registry of Plant Varieties.

Seal of Registry

 8. There is a seal of the Registry and impressions of the seal are to
be judicially noticed.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
                     Plant Varieties

2020 Ed.             Protection Act 2004                            8

Powers of Registrar

9. The Registrar may, for the purposes of this Act —

(a) summon witnesses;

(b) receive evidence on oath, whether orally or otherwise; and

          (c) require the production of documents or articles.

Disobedience to summons an offence

 10.—(1) A person who has been summoned to appear as a witness
before the Registrar must not, without lawful excuse, fail to appear in
obedience to the summons.

 (2) A person who has been required by the Registrar to produce a
document or article must not, without lawful excuse, fail to produce
the document or article.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months or to both.

Refusal to give evidence an offence

 11.—(1) A person who appears before the Registrar must not,
without lawful excuse, refuse to be sworn or to make an affirmation,
or to produce documents or articles, or to answer questions, which the
person is lawfully required to produce or answer.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both.

Costs awarded by Registrar

 12.—(1) The Registrar may award costs in respect of the matters,
and in the amounts provided for in rules made under this Act, against
any party to proceedings brought before him or her.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
   Plant Varieties

9  Protection Act 2004                                       2020 Ed.

 (2) The rules may provide for the assessment of the costs, or any
part of the costs, by the Registrar.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (3) A party desirous to obtain costs or to have the costs assessed
must apply to the Registrar in accordance with the rules.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (4) If a party is ordered to pay the costs of another party, the costs
may be recovered in a court of competent jurisdiction as a debt due by
the first party to the other party.

                                    PART 3

          APPLICATION FOR GRANT OF PROTECTION

Application for grant of protection

 13.—(1) An application for a grant of protection for a plant variety
must be made by the breeder of that plant variety in the prescribed
manner to the Registrar.

 (2) The application must contain or be accompanied by the
following:

       (a) a description of the plant variety;

       (b) the proposed denomination for the plant variety which
            qualifies for approval and registration under section 36;

       (c) an address for service in relation to that application, being
            an address within Singapore;

       (d) if a right of priority is claimed under section 14, full
            particulars of the relevant priority application.

 (3) The application must be accompanied by an application fee and
any other fees that may be prescribed.

 (4) An application that complies with subsections (1), (2) and (3) at
the time it is received at the Registry is, for the purposes of this Act,
deemed to be made at that time.

 (5) An application that does not comply with subsection (1), (2) or
(3) at the time it is received is nevertheless deemed to be made at that

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
          Plant Varieties

2020 Ed.  Protection Act 2004                                       10

time if it is rectified within such time and in such manner as the
Registrar may specify.

 (6) The Registrar must, if satisfied that an application complies
with subsections (1), (2) and (3) —

(a) publish the application and the proposed denomination for
     the plant variety in the prescribed manner; and

(b) notify the applicant of the publication.

Priority resulting from foreign application

 14.—(1) If —

       (a) the breeder of a plant variety has made an application in
            any UPOV member other than Singapore (called in this
            section the foreign application) for the equivalent of a grant
            of protection; and

       (b) within 12 months after —

               (i) the date on which the foreign application was made;
                   or

              (ii) where more than one foreign application has been
                   made (whether in one UPOV member or more than
                   one UPOV member), the date the earliest foreign
                   application was made,

            the breeder makes an application for the grant of protection
            in respect of the plant variety in Singapore,

the breeder may, when making the application under this Act, claim a
right of priority, and sections 22 and 23 apply to the application for a
grant of protection in Singapore as if it had been made on the date the
foreign application (or the earliest foreign application) was made.

 (2) The breeder must, within the prescribed period after making the
claim of a right of priority under subsection (1), submit to the
Registrar a copy of any document constituting the foreign
application, which must be certified as correct by the authority in
the UPOV member to which the foreign application was made.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
    Plant Varieties

11  Protection Act 2004                                       2020 Ed.

 (3) The breeder is allowed a period of 2 years after the end of the
period mentioned in subsection (1)(b) or, where the foreign
application (or the earliest foreign application) is rejected or
withdrawn, a period of 2 years after the rejection or withdrawal, in
which to furnish any necessary information, document or material
required for the purpose of the examination under section 17 to the
Registrar or an Examiner appointed by the Registrar for the purposes
of this subsection (as the case may be) or an examination report under
section 18 to the Registrar.

                                                                                                           [16/2014]

Publication

 15. The Registrar must publish applications for grant of protection,
and information on other prescribed matters, in the prescribed manner
at the time and frequency determined by the Registrar.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

Objections to denomination and grant of protection

 16.—(1) Any person may, within the prescribed period after the
publication of a denomination, by written notice to the Registrar,
object to the approval of that denomination.

 (2) Any person may, within the prescribed period after the
publication of an application for a grant of protection for a plant
variety, by written notice to the Registrar, object to the making of a
grant in respect of that plant variety on the ground that the plant
variety is not new within the meaning of section 22.

 (3) The Minister may make rules to provide for objection
proceedings and for matters relating to objection proceedings.

 (4) If a person who neither resides nor carries on business in
Singapore makes an objection under this section, the Registrar may
require the person to give security for the costs of the proceedings and
may, if security is not given, dismiss the proceedings.

Examination of plant variety

 17.—(1) Subject to section 18, the applicant must, within the
prescribed period after making an application, give to the Registrar or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
          Plant Varieties

2020 Ed.  Protection Act 2004                                       12

any Examiner appointed by the Registrar for the purposes of this
section —

(a) in such detail as the Registrar or the Examiner may require
     for examination under subsection (2), a description of —

          (i) the origin and breeding of the plant variety
              concerned (called in this section the candidate
              variety);

          (ii) the botanical features of the candidate variety; and

          (iii) at least one plant variety that is, to the breeder’s
                knowledge, most similar to the candidate variety and
                at least one characteristic which distinguishes the
                candidate variety from such other variety or
                varieties; and

       (b) propagating material of the candidate variety, but only if
            the Registrar or the Examiner requests for it.

                                                                                                           [16/2014]

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (2) The Registrar or the Examiner must examine the candidate
variety —

(a) to verify whether the candidate variety belongs to the
     stated botanical taxon;

(b) to establish whether the candidate variety is distinct,
     uniform and stable; and

       (c) where the candidate variety is found to meet the
            requirements in paragraphs (a) and (b), to establish an
            official description of the variety.

                                                                                                           [16/2014]

 (3) The Registrar or the Examiner may by written notice request the
applicant to furnish any further information, document or
propagating material of the candidate variety and of any similar
plant variety in addition to any plant variety mentioned in
subsection (1)(a)(iii).

                                                                                                           [16/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
    Plant Varieties

13  Protection Act 2004                                       2020 Ed.

 (4) Where the Registrar or the Examiner has made a request for
further information, documents or propagating material under
subsection (3), the applicant must —

    (a) furnish the information, document or propagating material
         within the period stated in the written notice; or

       (b) where the information, document or propagating material
            is not available, notify the Registrar or the Examiner (as the
            case may be) of this fact within that period.

                                                                                                           [16/2014]

 (5) The Registrar or the Examiner (as the case may be) may extend
the period in subsection (4) in a particular case.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

Corresponding examination

 18.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the applicant may, instead of
complying with the provisions in section 17, lodge with the Registrar
in any manner that the Registrar may require and within the
prescribed period, an examination report issued and certified by an
Examiner in any UPOV member other than Singapore.

                                                                                                           [16/2014]

 (2) The Registrar may reject an examination report lodged under
subsection (1), in which case the applicant must comply with the
provisions in section 17.

Withdrawal or lapse of application

 19.—(1) Any application may be withdrawn by the applicant at any
time before a grant of protection is made in respect of it.

 (2) The withdrawal of an application does not affect the applicant’s
liability for any fees that may have become payable up to the date of
that withdrawal.

 (3) Where any information, document or material required to be
given to the Registrar or an Examiner under the provisions of this Act
is not supplied within the period stated in the written notice issued by
the Registrar or the Examiner (as the case may be) requiring the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
          Plant Varieties

2020 Ed.  Protection Act 2004                                       14

information, document or material, the application concerned lapses
upon the end of that period.

                                                                                                           [16/2014]

Provisional protection

 20. Where a grant of protection for a plant variety has been made
under section 21, the grantee has the right to take proceedings in
respect of the protected variety under this Act as if the grant of
protection had been made on the date the application for that grant of
protection was published under section 15.

                                    PART 4

          GRANT AND REVOCATION OF PROTECTION

Making of grant of protection

 21.—(1) The Registrar must —

       (a) except where an application has been withdrawn or has
            lapsed under section 19, make a grant of protection in
            respect of every application that is eligible for the making
            of a grant of protection; and

       (b) decline to make a grant of protection in respect of every
            application that is not eligible for the making of a grant of
            protection.

 (2) An application must be treated as being eligible for the making
of a grant of protection if, and only if —

       (a) the applicant has complied with section 13 and section 17
            or 18, as the case may be; and

       (b) the Registrar —

               (i) has approved, for the plant variety in respect of
                   which the application was made, the denomination
                   proposed by the applicant under section 36;

              (ii) is satisfied that the applicant is the breeder of that
                   plant variety; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
    Plant Varieties

15  Protection Act 2004                                       2020 Ed.

    (iii) is satisfied that that plant variety is new, distinct,
          stable and uniform within the meaning of section 22.

Conditions for grant of protection

 22.—(1) For the purpose of sections 16(2), 21(2)(b)(iii) and
25(2)(a) —

       (a) a plant variety is new if harvested or propagating material
            of the plant variety has not been sold or otherwise disposed
            of to another person, by or with the breeder’s consent for
            the purposes of exploitation of the plant variety —

               (i) earlier than 12 months before the date the application
                   is made, where the sale or disposal and the
                   exploitation of the plant variety is in Singapore; and

              (ii) earlier than 6 years before that date in the case of
                   trees or vines, or earlier than 4 years before that date
                   in any other case, where the sale or disposal and the
                   exploitation of the plant variety is outside Singapore;

       (b) a plant variety is distinct if it is clearly distinguishable from
            any other plant variety whose existence is a matter of
            common knowledge at the time of the making of the
            application;

       (c) a plant variety is stable if its relevant characteristics remain
            unchanged after repeated propagation or, in the case of a
            particular cycle of propagation, at the end of each cycle;
            and

       (d) a plant variety is uniform if, subject to the variation that
            may be expected from the particular features of its
            propagation, it is sufficiently uniform in its relevant
            characteristics.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(a), where, in order to
increase the stock of a plant variety or for any testing of a plant
variety, the breeder of the plant variety makes any arrangement under
which —

       (a) propagating material of that plant variety is to be sold to or
            used by some other person; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
          Plant Varieties

2020 Ed.  Protection Act 2004                                       16

(b) any unused portion of that propagating material, and all the
     material of any type produced from that propagating
     material, is —

          (i) to be sold to the breeder by that other person; or

          (ii) otherwise to become the breeder’s property,

no account is to be taken of any sale or disposal under that
arrangement.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1)(a), a plant variety does not
cease to be new by virtue only of the sale or disposal at any time of —

(a) material that is not propagating material or harvested
     material; or

(b) propagating material if sold or disposed of as a by-product
     or a surplus product of the creation of that plant variety,
     provided that —

          (i) the material is sold or disposed of without variety
              identification for purposes of consumption; and

          (ii) having been produced during the breeding, increase
               of stock, test, or trial of that plant variety, the material
               is not or no longer required for any of those
               activities.

 (4) Despite subsection (1)(a), where this Act did not apply to a plant
genus or species before 30 July 2014, and an application for a grant of
protection is made within one year after that date in respect of any
plant variety belonging to that plant genus or species, that plant
variety is deemed to be new if harvested or propagating material of
that plant variety has not been sold, or otherwise disposed of, in
Singapore to another person, by or with the breeder’s consent for the
purposes of exploitation in Singapore of that plant variety —

(a) earlier than 6 years before the date that application is made,
     in the case of trees or vines; or

(b) earlier than 4 years before the date that application is made,
     in any other case.

                                                                                                 [16/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
    Plant Varieties

17  Protection Act 2004                                       2020 Ed.

 (5) For the purpose of subsection (1)(b), the making of an
application in any country for —

    (a) a grant of protection in respect of a plant variety; or

    (b) the entering of a plant variety in an official register of plant
         varieties,

is deemed to render that plant variety a matter of common knowledge
from the date of application, provided that the application leads to a
grant of protection in respect of that plant variety or to the entering of
that plant variety in the official register of plant varieties, as the case
may be.

Varieties bred or discovered and developed by 2 or more
persons independently

 23. Where —

       (a) before a grant of protection has been made in respect of any
            plant variety, 2 or more applications in respect of that plant
            variety have been made;

       (b) the Registrar is satisfied that the applicants concerned are
            persons who bred, or discovered and developed, that plant
            variety independently, or are successors of such persons;
            and

       (c) the Registrar is satisfied that, but for this section, each of
            those applicants would be entitled to a grant of protection
            in respect of that plant variety,

the Registrar must make a grant of protection to the applicant whose
application was made first.

Term of grant of protection

 24.—(1) The Registrar must endorse on every grant of protection
the date of the grant of protection.

 (2) Subject to sections 25 and 26, the term of a grant of protection is
a period of 25 calendar years from the date of the grant of protection.

 (3) The grantee must during the term of the grant of protection pay
an annual fee of a prescribed amount and furnish any information that

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
          Plant Varieties

2020 Ed.  Protection Act 2004                                       18

the Registrar may require in the prescribed manner and within the
prescribed period.

 (4) A late fee of a prescribed amount may be imposed by rules made
under this Act for the payment of the annual fee within the prescribed
period but after the anniversary of the date of grant of protection
where the anniversary is the first day of the one year period for which
the annual fee is payable, in prescribed circumstances.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

Grounds of invalidity of grant of protection

 25.—(1) An application for a declaration of invalidity of any grant
of protection on any ground mentioned in subsection (2) may be made
by any person to the Court.

 (2) A grant of protection is to be declared invalid if the Court is
satisfied that —

       (a) the plant variety concerned is not new or distinct within the
            meaning of section 22;

       (b) where the grant of protection was made on the basis of an
            examination report by an Examiner lodged under
            section 18, the plant variety was not, at the time the
            grant of protection was made, stable or uniform within the
            meaning of section 22(1)(c) or (d), respectively; or

       (c) the grant of protection has been made to a person who is
            not entitled to it, unless it has since been transferred to the
            person who is so entitled.

                                                                                                           [16/2014]

 (3) The Registrar must remove from the register any grant of
protection which has been declared invalid by the Court under this
section.

Cancellation of grant of protection

 26.—(1) An application for cancellation of any grant of protection
may be made by any person —

       (a) to the Registrar, on any ground mentioned in
            subsection (2); or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
    Plant Varieties

19  Protection Act 2004  2020 Ed.

    (b) to the Court, on the ground mentioned in subsection (3).

 (2) A grant of protection must be cancelled by the Registrar at any
time during its term in the event that —

    (a) the grantee, after having been requested by the Registrar to
         provide such information, documents or material as the
         Registrar thinks fit for verifying the maintenance of the
         plant variety, failed to do so within the period specified by
         the Registrar;

    (b) in any particular year, the annual fee required under
         section 24(3) to be paid, or the late fee required under
         section 24(4) to be paid, has not been paid within the
         prescribed period; or

                                                                          [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

    (c) the grantee, after having been requested by the Registrar to
         propose another suitable denomination under section 38,
         failed to do so within the prescribed period.

 (3) A grant of protection is to be cancelled by the Court at any time
during its term in the event that it is established that the plant variety
is no longer stable or uniform within the meaning of section 22(1)(c)
or (d), respectively.

 (4) The Registrar must remove from the register any grant of
protection which has been cancelled under this section.

Renunciation of grantee’s right

 27.—(1) A grantee may, in writing to the Registrar, renounce the
grantee’s grant of protection.

 (2) The Registrar must remove from the register any grant of
protection which has been renounced under subsection (1).

                                    PART 5
      SCOPE AND NATURE OF GRANT OF PROTECTION
Scope and nature of grant of protection
 28.—(1) Subject to sections 31 and 32, a grantee in respect of any
protected variety is entitled to prevent a person from doing any of the

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
                                  Plant Varieties

2020 Ed.               Protection Act 2004                          20

following acts in respect of the propagating material of the protected
variety without the authorisation, by way of a licence or otherwise, of
the grantee:

(a) production or reproduction;

(b) conditioning for the purpose of propagation;

          (c) offering for sale;

(d) selling or other forms of marketing;

          (e) export;

          (f) import;

(g) stocking for any of the purposes specified in paragraphs (a)
     to (f).

 (2) The grantee may give an authorisation subject to conditions and
limitations.

 (3) A grant of protection is personal property and may be assigned
or transmitted in the same way as other personal property.

 (4) An assignment of a grant of protection under subsection (3) is
not effective unless it is in writing and signed by or on behalf of the
assignor.

 (5) Subject to subsection (6), a licence granted by a grantee in
respect of any protected variety is binding on every successor in title
to the grantee’s interest —

(a) except any person who, in good faith and without any
     notice (actual or constructive) of the licence, has given
     valuable consideration for the interest in the grant of
     protection; or

(b) unless the licence provides otherwise,

and any reference in this Act to doing anything with, or without, the
consent of the grantee is to be construed accordingly.

 (6) Every person is deemed to have notice of a licence if the
prescribed particulars of the grant of the licence are entered in the
register under section 42.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
    Plant Varieties

21  Protection Act 2004                                       2020 Ed.

 (7) Subject to sections 31 and 32, the rights of a grantee under
subsection (1) also apply to harvested material, including entire
plants and parts of plants, obtained through the unauthorised use of
propagating material of the protected variety unless the grantee has
had a reasonable opportunity, before the harvested material was
obtained, to exercise the grantee’s rights in relation to the
unauthorised use of the propagating material.

Essentially derived and certain other plant varieties

 29.—(1) Where a grant of protection is made under section 21, that
grant of protection also extends to —

       (a) any plant variety which is essentially derived from the
            plant variety in respect of which the grant of protection was
            made (called in this section the original plant variety);

       (b) any plant variety which is not distinct in accordance with
            section 22(1)(b) from the original plant variety; and

       (c) any plant variety the production of which requires the
            repeated use of the original plant variety.

 (2) For the purposes of this section, a plant variety is to be treated as
being essentially derived from the original plant variety if —

       (a) it is predominantly derived from the original plant variety
            or from a plant variety that is itself predominantly derived
            from the original plant variety;

       (b) it retains the expression of the essential characteristics that
            result from the genotype or a combination of genotypes of
            the original plant variety;

       (c) it is clearly distinguishable from the original plant variety;
            and

       (d) except for the differences which result from the act of
            derivation, it conforms to the original plant variety in the
            expression of the essential characteristics that result from
            the genotype or a combination of genotypes of the original
            plant variety.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
          Plant Varieties

2020 Ed.  Protection Act 2004                                       22

Infringement of grant of protection

30.—(1) A grant of protection is infringed by any person who —

(a) not being entitled by any licence or transfer or otherwise,
     does in Singapore, or authorises the doing in Singapore of,
     any act specified in section 28(1) in respect of any
     propagating material or harvested material of a protected
     variety;

(b) where propagating material of the protected variety has
     been imported into Singapore, propagates, sells or uses that
     material as propagating material without the authority of
     the grantee concerned; or

          (c) imports into Singapore, without the grantee’s consent —

          (i) from a country that is not a UPOV member, any
              harvested material of the protected variety; or

          (ii) from a UPOV member, any harvested material of the
               protected variety in respect of which it is not possible
               to make the equivalent of a grant of protection under
               the law of that member.

 (2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the relief that the Court
may grant in an action for an infringement of a grant of protection
includes an injunction (subject to such terms, if any, as the Court
thinks fit) and either damages or an account of profits.

(3) Where, in an action under this section —

(a) an infringement of a grant of protection is established; and

(b) the Court is satisfied that it is proper to do so, having regard
     to —

          (i) the flagrancy of the infringement;

          (ii) any benefit shown to have accrued to the defendant
               by reason of the infringement; and

          (iii) all other relevant matters,

the Court may, in assessing damages for the infringement, award such
additional damages as it considers appropriate in the circumstances.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
    Plant Varieties

23  Protection Act 2004                                       2020 Ed.

 (4) Where, in any action under this section, it is proved or admitted
that an infringement was committed but proved by the defendant that,
at the time of that infringement, the defendant was not aware and had
no reasonable grounds for supposing that it was an infringement, the
claimant is not entitled under this section to any damages against the
defendant in respect of that infringement, but is entitled instead to an
account of profits in respect of that infringement.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (5) Nothing in subsection (4) affects any entitlement of a grantee to
any relief in respect of the infringement of that grantee’s rights under
this Act other than damages.

Exceptions to infringement of grant of protection

 31.—(1) It is not an infringement of a grant of protection in respect
of a protected variety for any person to do —

       (a) any act privately and for a non-commercial purpose;

       (b) any act for any experimental or research purpose; or

       (c) any act for the purposes of breeding any other plant variety
            and, except in the case of an essentially derived or other
            plant variety to which the grant of protection is extended
            by virtue of section 29(1), any act that requires the
            grantee’s authorisation under section 28(1) in respect of
            such other variety.

 (2) It is not an infringement of a grant of protection for any person
engaging in farming activities to use, for propagating purposes and
for the purpose of safeguarding agricultural or horticultural
production, on the person’s own holdings, harvested material from
the protected variety where —

       (a) the genera or species within which the protected variety is
            classified has been prescribed for the purposes of this
            section as exempt from the rights of a grantee; and

       (b) the harvested material —

               (i) has been obtained by purchase or otherwise with the
                   authority of the grantee concerned; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
          Plant Varieties

2020 Ed.  Protection Act 2004                                       24

          (ii) having been obtained in accordance with
               sub-paragraph (i), has subsequently been
               propagated or grown on those holdings.

Exhaustion of grant of protection

 32.—(1) An act concerning —

       (a) any material of a protected variety which has been sold or
            otherwise marketed in Singapore by or with the grantee’s
            consent; or

       (b) any material that is derived from such material,

does not infringe a grant of protection, unless such act involves —

       (c) further propagation of the protected variety; or

       (d) the export of any material of that protected variety which
            enables the propagation of the protected variety to a
            country which does not protect varieties of the plant genus
            or species to which the protected variety belongs, except
            where the exported material is for final consumption
            purposes.

 (2) In this section, “material” means —

       (a) propagating material of any kind; and

       (b) harvested material, including entire plants and parts of
            plants.

                                    PART 6

       AUTHORISATION AND COMPULSORY LICENCES

Rights under authorisation

 33. Where a person has been authorised to do any act mentioned in
section 28(1) by licence by a grantee, that person has the same rights
as the grantee to take proceedings in respect of any infringement of
the rights of that grantee in respect of the protected variety which
affects any right given under that licence and committed after the
authorisation was granted.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
                     Plant Varieties

25                   Protection Act 2004                      2020 Ed.

Compulsory licences

 34.—(1) Any person may apply to the Court for the grant of a
compulsory licence to exploit a protected variety in Singapore.

 (2) The Court may make an order for the grant of a compulsory
licence, subject to any terms that it thinks fit, in accordance with an
application under subsection (1) if, and only if, the Court is satisfied
that the grant of a compulsory licence is in the public interest.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (2), the Court may set out in its
order —

    (a) the extent to which the protected variety may be exploited;
         and

    (b) the right of the licensee to obtain propagating material
         from the grantee to the extent reasonable.

 (4) The Court is to set out in its order the equitable remuneration
which the licensee must pay to the grantee.

 (5) A licence must not be granted under this section to any person
who is unable to demonstrate to the Court that the person will be able
to exploit the protected variety in a manner acceptable to the Court.

 (6) A licence must not be granted under this section unless the
person applying for the licence has first taken all reasonable steps to
obtain authorisation from the grantee on reasonable commercial
terms and conditions and has failed to obtain such authorisation
within a reasonable period of time.

 (7) A licence granted under this section does not prevent the grantee
from exploiting the protected variety himself, herself or itself or from
granting a licence in this respect.

 (8) A licence in respect of a protected variety granted under this
section may be transferred to another person, but only together with
the business activity in connection with which the protected variety is
exploited or is intended to be exploited.

 (9) A licence granted under this section may, upon the application
of any interested party, be terminated by the Court where the Court is
satisfied that the ground upon which the licence was granted has
ceased to exist.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
                      Plant Varieties

2020 Ed.              Protection Act 2004                           26

                      PART 7

          NOTICE OF PROTECTION

Notice of protection

 35.—(1) Where an applicant sells any propagating material of the
plant variety in respect of which the applicant’s application relates,
the applicant must take all reasonable steps, by means of suitable
labelling or other identification of that material to inform the
purchaser of the existence of that application, unless and until that
application is withdrawn or lapses or the Registrar declines to make a
grant in respect of that application.

(2) Any person who —

(a) has acquired any rights in respect of any plant variety
     under section 21, or who is a licensee of such rights; and

(b) sells any propagating material of that plant variety,

must take all reasonable steps, by means of suitable labelling or other
identification of that material, to inform the purchaser of those rights.

 (3) In determining, for the purposes of section 30(4), whether or not
any person had reasonable grounds for supposing that any action was
an infringement of a grant of protection, the Court may take into
account the extent (if any) to which a person mentioned in
subsection (1) or (2) (as the case may be) has complied with that
subsection in respect of any propagating material in relation to which
that infringement occurred.

                                    PART 8

                             DENOMINATION

Approval and registration of denomination

 36.—(1) A plant variety in respect of which an application for a
grant of protection is made is to have a denomination and, subject to
subsections (2) and (3), the denomination must be approved by the
Registrar and registered at the time the grant of protection is made.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
    Plant Varieties

27  Protection Act 2004                                       2020 Ed.

 (2) The Registrar must approve and register a proposed
denomination for a plant variety if, and only if, in the opinion of
the Registrar, it complies with the prescribed requirements.

 (3) The Registrar must not approve or register a denomination for
the plant variety which —

    (a) consists solely of figures, except where this is an
         established practice for designating plant varieties;

    (b) is likely to mislead or cause confusion concerning the
         characteristics, value or identity of the plant variety, or the
         breeder’s identity;

    (c) is contrary to any written law or public order, or is likely to
        be offensive to the public;

    (d) is likely to cause confusion with a trade mark, a name, a
         business or any other rights for which any person other
         than the applicant enjoys protection under any law; or

    (e) is likely to cause confusion with a trade mark for any
        material of another plant variety or for goods similar to any
        material of the firstmentioned plant variety for which the
        applicant enjoys protection under any law.

 (4) Where a denomination for a plant variety has previously been
submitted in any UPOV member other than Singapore for the purpose
of registration in that UPOV member, the denomination submitted for
the purpose of an application in Singapore in respect of that plant
variety must be the same as the denomination submitted in the UPOV
member.

 (5) The Registrar must approve the denomination submitted under
subsection (4) upon the grant of protection, unless the Registrar
considers the denomination to be unsuitable for use within Singapore.

 (6) Where the Registrar refuses to approve a denomination under
subsection (2), (3) or (5), the Registrar must require, and the applicant
must propose, another denomination within the prescribed period.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
                     Plant Varieties

2020 Ed.             Protection Act 2004                            28

Use of denomination

 37.—(1) Any person who offers for sale or disposes of propagating
material of a protected variety must use the registered denomination
for that protected variety, whether or not the term of the grant of
protection has expired.

 (2) A person must not offer for sale or dispose of, under the
registered denomination of a protected variety, propagating material
of some other plant variety, whether or not the term of grant of
protection has expired.

 (3) A registered denomination for a protected variety or a
denomination which is confusingly similar to the registered
denomination must not be used for any plant variety of the same
plant species as the protected variety or for a plant specie which is
closely related thereto or for any material of such a plant variety, so
long as —

(a) the registration of the registered denomination of the
     protected variety is in force; or

(b) the registered denomination of the protected variety is still
     in use in respect of the commercial exploitation of the
     protected variety, even if the term of the grant of protection
     has expired.

 (4) A person who sells or markets the propagating material or
harvested material of a protected variety may, for that purpose,
associate a trademark, trade name or other similar indication which
the person owns with the registered denomination of that protected
variety.

 (5) Where a person associates a trademark, trade name or other
similar indication with the registered denomination under
subsection (4), the denomination must nevertheless be easily
recognisable and distinct from the trademark, trade name or other
similar indication.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
    Plant Varieties

29  Protection Act 2004                                       2020 Ed.

Invalidation of registration of denomination

 38.—(1) An application for a declaration of invalidity of a
registered denomination may be made to the Court on the ground
that it is registered in breach of section 36(3).

 (2) Where —

    (a) the registration of a denomination has been declared
         invalid by the Court under subsection (1); or

    (b) the use of the registered denomination by the grantee has
         been prohibited or restricted by an order of Court pursuant
         to any proceedings taken under any law,

the Registrar must require the grantee to submit another suitable
denomination for registration within the prescribed period.

                                    PART 9

                  REGISTER OF PLANT VARIETIES

Register to be maintained
 39.—(1) The Registrar must maintain a register of plant varieties.
 (2) There must be entered in the register —
       (a) grants of protection made;

       (b) every decision of the Registrar making or declining the
            making of a grant;

       (c) the approved denomination for a plant variety;

       (d) any particulars of the grantee that the Registrar may
            determine; and

       (e) any other matters and information relating to a protected
            variety or grant of protection whose entry in the register
            appears to the Registrar to be useful.

 (3) The register may be kept in whole or in part using a computer.

 (4) Any record of a particular or other matter made by using a
computer used for the purpose of keeping the register, or any part of
the register, is taken to be an entry in the register.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
          Plant Varieties

2020 Ed.  Protection Act 2004                                       30

Inspection of and extract from register

 40.—(1) The register is to be available at the Registry for
inspection by any person during the hours when the Registry is
open for business.

 (2) If the register, or any part of the register, is kept by using a
computer, subsection (1) is satisfied if a person who wants to inspect
the register or that part of the register is given access to a computer
terminal from which the person can read on a screen, or obtain a
printed copy of, the particulars or other matters recorded in the
register or that part of the register.

 (3) Any person who applies for a certified copy of an entry in the
register or a certified extract from the register is entitled to obtain
such a copy or extract on payment of the prescribed fee.

 (4) In relation to any portion of the register kept otherwise than in
documentary form, the right to a copy or extract conferred by
subsection (3) is a right to a copy or extract in a form in which it can
be taken away.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

 (5) In this section, “certified copy” and “certified extract” mean a
copy and extract certified by the Registrar.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

Rectification of register

 41.—(1) Any person having a sufficient interest may apply to the
Registrar for the rectification of an error or omission in the register.

 (1A) An application for rectification is subject to the rules
mentioned in section 54(2)(ea).

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (2) Except where the Registrar directs otherwise, the effect of a
rectification of the register is that the error or omission in question is
deemed never to have been made.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), an application for rectification may
not be made in respect of a matter affecting the validity of a grant of
protection.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
    Plant Varieties

31  Protection Act 2004                                       2020 Ed.

 (4) The Registrar may make any correction in the register pursuant
to any Court order affecting a grant of protection.

 (5) The Registrar may remove from the register any matter which
appears to him or her to have ceased to have effect.

Changes reflected in register

 42.—(1) The Registrar may enter the following in the register:

       (a) any change in the grantee’s name or address;

       (b) any change in ownership of the rights in relation to a grant
            of protection;

       (c) a note of any licence granted by a grantee,

upon receiving such information under section 24(3) or on request
made in the prescribed manner by the grantee of a registered grant of
protection.

 (2) Where a grant of protection has been transferred to another
person, or a licence (including a licence granted under section 34) has
been granted or transferred, an entry of this fact must, upon request
and the payment of the prescribed fee, be made in the register.

Registration to be prima facie evidence of validity

 43. In any proceedings before the Court relating to a grant of
protection —

       (a) the entry in the register of a person as a grantee is prima
            facie evidence of the validity of the grant of protection; and

       (b) the entry in the register of any change in ownership of the
            rights in relation to the grant of protection is prima facie
            evidence of such change in ownership.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
                           Plant Varieties

2020 Ed.                   Protection Act 2004                      32

                           PART 10

                           OFFENCES

Falsification of register

44. Any person who —

(a) makes, or causes to be made, a false entry in the register;

(b) makes, or causes to be made, any thing false purporting to
     be a copy of an entry in the register; or

          (c) produces or tenders, or causes to be produced or tendered
              in evidence any thing mentioned in paragraph (b),

knowing or having reason to believe that the entry or thing (as the
case may be) is false shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

Falsely representing plant variety as protected variety

 45. Any person who —

       (a) falsely represents that a plant variety is a protected variety;
            or

       (b) makes a false representation as to the propagating material
            of a protected variety,

knowing or having reason to believe that the representation is false
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000.

Misuse of denomination

 46. Any person who wilfully or negligently acts in contravention of
section 37(1), (2) or (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
    Plant Varieties

33  Protection Act 2004                                       2020 Ed.

    PART 11

    MISCELLANEOUS

Registrar not liable in respect of official acts

 47.—(1) The Registrar and any officer of the Registry are not to be
taken to warrant the correctness or validity of a grant of protection or
the registration of a denomination under this Act or under any
international agreement or convention to which Singapore is a party.

 (2) The Registrar, any officer of the Registry and any Examiner
mentioned in section 17(1) and officer thereof (if the Examiner is not
an individual), do not incur any liability by reason only of, or in
connection with, any examination required or authorised by this Act,
or any such international agreement or convention, or any report or
other proceedings consequent on such examination.

                                                                                                           [16/2014]

Right of appeal

 48.—(1) Except as provided in subsection (2) or by rules made
under this Act, there is no appeal to the Court from a decision of the
Registrar for any matter under this Act.

 (2) The following are subject to appeal to the Court:

       (a) a decision of the Registrar to decline to make a grant of
            protection;

       (b) a decision of the Registrar to make a grant of protection;

       (c) a decision of the Registrar approving or disapproving a
            proposed denomination.

 (3) An appeal does not lie to the appellate court from a decision of
the Court on appeal from a decision of the Registrar for any matter
under this Act unless permission to appeal is given by the appellate
court.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

                                                                                                [23/2019; 40/2019]

 (4) In this section, “appellate court” means the court to which an
appeal under subsection (3) is to be made under section 29C of the
Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
          Plant Varieties

2020 Ed.  Protection Act 2004                                       34

Forms and directions of Registrar

 49. The Minister may make rules for the publication by the
Registrar of —

(a) the forms to be used for any purpose relating to a grant of
     protection or any other proceedings before the Registrar
     under this Act; and

(b) the practice directions issued by the Registrar.

Amendment of documents

 49A. Subject to the rules mentioned in section 54(2)(ea), the
Registrar may, at the written request of a person who has made any
application under this Act (including an application for a grant of
protection for a plant variety), or filed a notice or other document for
the purposes of this Act, or at the written request of the person’s
agent, amend the application, notice or document —

       (a) to correct a clerical error or an obvious mistake; or

       (b) if the Registrar is of the opinion that it is fair and
            reasonable in all the circumstances of the case to do so.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

Fees

 50.—(1) There must be paid in respect of applications, grants,
registrations and other matters under this Act such fees as may be
prescribed.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

 (2) The Minister may make rules as to the remission of fees under
prescribed circumstances.

 (3) All fees collected must be paid into the funds of the Office.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

Hours of business and excluded days
 51.—(1) The Registrar may issue practice directions to specify —
       (a) the hours of business of the Registry; and
       (b) the days which are to be treated as excluded days.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
                         Plant Varieties

35               Protection Act 2004                          2020 Ed.

 (2) The Minister may prescribe the effect of doing any business
under this Act —

    (a) on any day after the hours of business of the Registry; or

      (b) on any day which is an excluded day.
(3) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (2) —

    (a) different hours of business may be specified for different
         classes of business;

    (b) different excluded days may be specified for different
         classes of business; and

    (c) different effects of doing business —

    (i) outside the hours of business of the Registry; or

    (ii) on an excluded day,

    may be prescribed for different classes of business.

Composition of offences

 52.—(1) The Registrar or any person authorised in writing by the
Registrar may compound any offence under this Act that is prescribed
as a compoundable offence by collecting from a person reasonably
suspected of having committed the offence a sum not exceeding the
lower of the following:

    (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
         prescribed for the offence;

    (b) $5,000.

                                          [Act 23 of 2019 wef 10/06/2022]

 (2) The Office may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to prescribe the offences which may be compounded.

                                                                                                             [2/2007]

 (2A) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are
to be taken against such person in respect of the offence.

                                                                                                             [2/2007]

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2019 wef 10/06/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
                       Plant Varieties

2020 Ed.               Protection Act 2004                          36

Jurisdiction of court

 53. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment in
respect of the offence.

Rules

 54.—(1) The Minister may make rules —

       (a) for prescribing anything authorised or required by this Act
            to be prescribed; and

       (b) generally for regulating practice and procedure under this
            Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), rules made under this section
may make provision —

       (a) as to the manner of making applications and filing other
            documents and in respect of anything that is to accompany
            or to be furnished together with any application;

       (b) as to the procedure to be followed in connection with any
            application or request to the Registrar or in connection with
            any proceedings or other matter before the Registrar, and
            the rectification of irregularities of procedure;

       (c) providing for the testing and treatment of plant varieties to
            which applications relate;

       (d) requiring and regulating the translation of documents and
            the filing and authentication of any translation;

       (e) as to the service of documents;

      (ea) to enable the Registrar to publish —

               (i) an application to rectify an error or omission in the
                   register; and

              (ii) a request to amend an application (including one for
                   a grant of protection for a plant variety), a notice or
                   other document filed for the purpose of this Act,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
    Plant Varieties

37  Protection Act 2004                                       2020 Ed.

        and to provide for the making of objections to the
        rectification or amendment by a person claiming to be
        affected by it;

                                                                         [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

    (f) prescribing time limits for anything required to be done
        under this Act;

    (g) providing for the extension of any time limit prescribed or
         specified by the Registrar, whether or not it has already
         expired;

    (h) providing for the forfeiture of any priority given in respect
         of an application;

    (i) authorising the preparation, publication, sale and exchange
        of copies of diagrams, photographs and documents filed
        with the Registry, and indexes and abridgments to them;

    (j) prescribing the mode of publishing any matters required by
        this Act to be published;

    (k) prescribing the requirements to be met in selecting the
        denomination of plant varieties, and providing for the
        approval or rejection by the Registrar of any denomination
        or the amendment to any denomination; and

    (l) prescribing fees and charges for the purposes of this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

                  PLANT VARIETIES
               PROTECTION ACT 2004

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 22 of 2004 — Plant Varieties Protection Act 2004

Bill           : 21/2004

First Reading  : 19 May 2004

Second and Third Readings : 15 June 2004

Commencement   : 1 July 2004

2. 2006 Revised Edition — Plant Varieties Protection Act (Chapter 232A)

Operation      : 31 January 2006

3. Act 2 of 2007 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2007
   (Amendments made by section 7 of the above Act)

Bill           : 14/2006

First Reading  : 8 November 2006

Second and Third Readings : 22 January 2007

Commencement   : 1 March 2007 (section 7)

4. G.N. No. S 743/2013 — Plant Varieties Protection Act (Amendment of
                                   Schedule) Notification 2013

Commencement   : 9 December 2013

5. Act 16 of 2012 — Intellectual Property (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act
                          2012

   (Amendments made by section 2 of the above Act)

Bill           : 14/2012

First Reading  : 14 May 2012

Second and Third Readings : 10 July 2012

Commencement   : 7 March 2014 (section 2(a))
                     30 July 2014 (section 2(b) to (h))

6. Act 16 of 2014 — Plant Varieties Protection (Amendment) Act 2014

Bill           : 9/2014

First Reading  : 17 February 2014

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
                      ii

Second and Third Readings : 13 March 2014

Commencement          : 30 July 2014

7. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 29(12) and section 28(1) read with item 118 of
   the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 29(12) and
                            section 28(1) read with item 118 of the
                            Schedule)

8. 2020 Revised Edition — Plant Varieties
                                    Protection Act 2004

Operation             : 31 December 2021

9. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
   (Amendments made by section 179 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 18/2021

First Reading         : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement          : 1 April 2022

10. Act 7 of 2022 — Intellectual Property (Amendment) Act 2022

Bill                  : 39/2021

First Reading         : 1 November 2021

Second and Third Readings : 12 January 2022

Commencement          : 26 May 2022

11. Act 23 of 2019 — Intellectual Property (Dispute Resolution) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by Part 6 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 17/2019

First Reading         : 8 July 2019

Second and Third Readings : 5 August 2019

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
       Commencement           iii

                             : 21 November 2019 (section 26)
                                   10 June 2022

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
        COMPARATIVE TABLE

           PLANT VARIETIES
        PROTECTION ACT 2004

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

        2020 Ed.                    2006 Ed.
                  22—(3A)
22—(4)
   (5)               (4)
                  40—(4) [Deleted by Act 16 of 2012]
—
40—(4)               (5)
                     (6)
   (5)            THE SCHEDULE [Deleted by Act 16
—                 of 2014]

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/6/2022
