THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                 TRAVEL AGENTS ACT 1975

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                                  2020 Ed.

         Travel Agents Act 1975

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Application
     2.  Business of travel agent
     3.  Board responsible for administration of this Act
     4.
     5.

         PART 2

         LICENSING OF TRAVEL AGENTS

 6.      Persons carrying on business of travel agent to be licensed
 7.      Application for licence or renewal of licence
 7A.     Travel agent licence
 8.      Limit as to number of licences granted
 9.      Suspension or revocation of licence
10.      Board may require licensees to inform customers of notice under
         section 9
11.      Appeal to Minister
12.      Power of Board to publish information

         PART 3

         GENERAL

13.      Furnishing false, etc., information
14.      Wrongful conversion and false accounts
15.      Power to search premises
16.      Power to arrest
17.      Power to investigate
18.      Powers of Board
19.      Obstruction of search, etc.
20.      Offences by corporations
20A.     Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

                                                    1

                                                                  31.12.2021
2        Travel Agents Act 1975                 2020 Ed.

Section  Disclosure of information
         Service of documents
   21.   [Repealed]
   22.   Authentication of documents
   23.   Consent of Public Prosecutor
   24.   Conduct of proceedings
   25.   Composition of offences
   26.   Recovery of financial penalties, etc.
   27.   Regulations
   27A.
   28.

An Act for the licensing of travel agents and for the regulation of their
  operation and for purposes connected therewith.

                                                           [1 December 1976]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title

 1. This Act is the Travel Agents Act 1975.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “Board” means the Singapore Tourism Board established under
         section 3 of the Singapore Tourism Board Act 1963;
      “code of conduct” means a code of conduct mentioned in
         section 28(1)(g)(ii);
      “licence” means a licence granted or renewed under section 7;
      “licensee” means any person who holds a licence;
      “regulations” means regulations made under this Act;
      “relevant individual”, in relation to an applicant for a licence or
         to a licensee, means —
              (a) where the applicant or licensee is an individual, the
                   applicant or licensee, as the case may be;
2020 Ed.  Travel Agents Act 1975  3

          (b) where the applicant or licensee is a partnership, a
               partner of the partnership;

          (c) where the applicant or licensee is an unincorporated
              association, a member of the governing body of the
              unincorporated association; and

          (d) where the applicant or licensee is a company or other
               body corporate, any director of the company or
               officer holding a similar managerial or executive
               position in the body corporate;

“supply”, in relation to a travel product, includes the sale, or
   arranging for the provision, of the travel product;

“tour” means a visit to one or more places or points of interest,
   whether in Singapore or elsewhere, in which the participant
   or participants in the visit is or are, for any part of the visit,
   accompanied by an individual who is not a participant of the
   visit;

“travel product” means any goods or services described in
   section 4(1).

                                  [47/2017]

Application
 3.—(1) Nothing in this Act is to be construed as requiring any of the

following persons to hold a licence for the purpose of performing that
person’s functions, exercising that person’s powers or carrying out
that person’s duties as any of the following persons:

       (a) any executor or administrator;

       (b) any trustee;

       (c) any liquidator or official receiver;

       (d) any trustee in bankruptcy of a bankrupt estate;
       (e) any trustee under —

               (i) a composition or scheme of arrangement;

              (ii) a deed of arrangement; or

             (iii) a deed of assignment;

                                  31.12.2021
4  Travel Agents Act 1975                          2020 Ed.

   (f) any donee of a lasting power of attorney —

   (i) which is granted under the Mental Capacity
       Act 2008;

   (ii) under which the donor confers on the donee authority
        to make decisions in relation to the donor for the
        purposes of this Act; and

   (iii) the donor of which, after the creation of the lasting
         power of attorney, lacks capacity within the meaning
         of the Mental Capacity Act 2008;

   (g) any deputy who is appointed or deemed to be appointed for
        an individual by the court under the Mental Capacity
        Act 2008, and who is conferred power to make decisions in
        relation to that individual for the purposes of this Act.

                                                                                                    [16/2016]

 (2) Despite anything in subsection (1), it is not lawful for any of the
persons mentioned in that subsection in whom is vested the
management of the business of any travel agent to carry on that
business at any time after the expiration of 3 months from the date on
which the management of that business was so vested, unless that
person holds a licence.

 (3) Nothing in this Act is to be construed as relieving any person
from the obligation to take out a licence under any written law for the
performance of any function, the exercise of any power or the
carrying out of any duty for which a licence must have been required
if this Act had not been passed or to pay the fee payable in respect of
any such licence.

 (4) Nothing in this Act is to be construed as requiring the Official
Assignee performing his or her duties as the trustee in bankruptcy of
the property of a bankrupt to hold a licence.

 (5) This Act does not apply to the Government, or a body
established by or under a public Act for a public purpose.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]
2020 Ed.  Travel Agents Act 1975                                  5

Business of travel agent

 4.—(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), a person carries on the
business of a travel agent if the person carries on, or advertises or
holds himself, herself or itself out as carrying on, a business of any
one or more of the following:

(a) supplying any person a right to travel on any conveyance;
(b) supplying any person —

          (i) a right to travel on any conveyance to; and

          (ii) a right of accommodation at a hotel or similar
               boarding premises at,

          one or more places, whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

          (c) purchasing, or reserving, for resale to any person a right to
              travel on any conveyance;

(d) supplying any tour (whether or not organised by the
     person) to any other person;

       (e) any other similar activity that may be prescribed.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (2) An individual who is employed by a licensee or who is an agent
of a licensee does not carry on the business of a travel agent by reason
only of carrying on in the course of the individual’s employment or
agency (as the case may be) any activity mentioned in subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (3) However, a person does not carry on the business of a travel
agent if —

(a) for the activity mentioned in subsection (1)(a), the person
     carries on the activity only in respect of a conveyance the
     person owns;

(b) for the activity mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (c), the
     person carries on the activity only in respect of a
     conveyance —

          (i) used for a regular route service within the meaning of
              the Bus Services Industry Act 2015;

                                                           31.12.2021
6  Travel Agents Act 1975                 2020 Ed.

   (ii) used for a community bus service or courtesy bus
        service, within the meaning of the Bus Services
        Industry Act 2015, and that travels only within
        Singapore; or

   (iii) used for a train service within the meaning of the
         Public Transport Council Act 1987;

   (c) for the activity mentioned in subsection (1)(b), the person
       carries on the activity only in respect of —

   (i) a conveyance the person owns; and

   (ii) a hotel or similar boarding premises the person owns
        or operates; or

   (d) for the activity mentioned in subsection (1)(d), the person
        carries on the activity only in respect of any place or point
        of interest that the person owns or operates.

                                                                                                    [47/2017]

Board responsible for administration of this Act

 5. The Board is responsible for the administration of this Act and
may authorise any of its officers to exercise any of the powers
conferred upon and perform any of the functions imposed upon the
Board by this Act on its behalf.

                                    PART 2

                  LICENSING OF TRAVEL AGENTS

Persons carrying on business of travel agent to be licensed

 6.—(1) A person must not carry on the business of a travel agent
unless the person is authorised to do so by a licence.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (2) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $25,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]
2020 Ed.  Travel Agents Act 1975                                7

Application for licence or renewal of licence

 7.—(1) Any person who desires to obtain or renew a licence must
make an application to the Board in the form the Board requires.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (2) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1), the Board
must consider the application and may —

(a) grant or renew a licence for any duration that the Board
     may specify in the licence; or

(b) refuse the application.

                                                           [47/2017]

(3) The Board may refuse to grant or renew a licence if —

(a) the applicant or a relevant individual of the applicant is not
     a suitable person to be involved in the management or
     operation of the business of a travel agent;

(b) the applicant is unable to meet or continue to meet any
     minimum financial requirements that may be prescribed;

          (c) the Board has reason to believe that the applicant or a
              relevant individual of the applicant has committed any
              offence involving dishonesty or moral turpitude;

(d) the Board has reason to believe that the applicant is
     contravening or has contravened —

          (i) any provision of this Act or the regulations; or

          (ii) any condition of a licence or any code of conduct
               applicable to the applicant;

          (e) the Board has reason to believe that a relevant individual of
              the applicant is contravening or has contravened, or is
              responsible for another licensee’s contravention of —

          (i) any provision of this Act or the regulations; or

          (ii) any condition of a licence or any code of conduct
               applicable to the relevant individual or the other
               licensee, as the case may be;

          (f) the application for the grant or renewal of the licence
              contains a statement or information that is untrue, or

                                               31.12.2021
8  Travel Agents Act 1975  2020 Ed.

   misleading (including as a result of any omission), in any
   material particular;

   (g) all relevant individuals of the applicant are incapable, by
        reason of illness, infirmity or any other cause, of carrying
        on the business of a travel agent; or

       (h) the Board considers it in the public interest to do so.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (4) Before refusing an application to renew a licence, the Board
must —

   (a) serve the applicant written notice of its intention; and

       (b) give the applicant an opportunity to submit reasons, within
            any period that the Board may specify in that notice, why
            the application should not be refused.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (3)(e), a relevant individual is
responsible for any contravention of a licensee if the relevant
individual —

   (a) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to effect
        the licensee’s contravention;

   (b) is in any other way, whether by act or omission, knowingly
        concerned in, or is party to, the contravention of the
        licensee; or

         (c) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
              contravention of the licensee (or a contravention of the
              same type) would be or is being effected, and failed to take
              all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the contravention.

                                                                                                            [47/2017]

   (6) To avoid doubt —

   (a) subsection (3)(d) applies in relation to any contravention
        by the applicant, whether the contravention occurred
        before, on or after 1 January 2018; and
2020 Ed.  Travel Agents Act 1975                9

(b) subsection (3)(e) applies in relation to —

          (i) any contravention by a relevant individual of the
              applicant, whether the contravention occurred
              before, on or after 1 January 2018; and

          (ii) any contravention by a licensee mentioned in
               subsection (3)(e) for which the relevant individual
               is responsible, whether the contravention occurred
               before, on or after 1 January 2018.

                                                                                                 [47/2017]

Travel agent licence

 7A.—(1) A licence is subject to any conditions that the Board may
specify in writing.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (2) The conditions of a licence may include the assignment to the
licensee of such description or classification as a travel agent as the
Board considers appropriate to specify the type of business of a travel
agent mentioned in section 4(1) that the licensee is authorised to carry
on.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (3) The Board may, at any time, vary or revoke any of the
conditions of a licence or impose any new condition.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (4) Before taking any action under subsection (3) that is to a
licensee’s disadvantage, the Board must —

       (a) serve the licensee written notice of its intention; and

       (b) give the licensee an opportunity to submit reasons, within a
            reasonable period after the date that the Board serves the
            written notice, why the conditions of the licence should not
            be so varied or revoked, or the new condition should not be
            imposed.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (5) An appeal made under section 11 against the Board’s decision
under subsection (3) does not affect the operation of the decision or
prevent the taking of any action to implement the decision, unless
directed by the Minister in any particular case.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

                                                31.12.2021
10  Travel Agents Act 1975              2020 Ed.

Limit as to number of licences granted

 8. The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, limit the
number of licences to be granted under this Act.

Suspension or revocation of licence

 9.—(1) The Board may suspend a licence for a period not
exceeding 6 months (or a longer maximum period if prescribed in
substitution), or revoke a licence, if —

       (a) the licensee or a relevant individual of the licensee is not a
            suitable person to be involved in the management or
            operation of the business of a travel agent, including by
            reason of the manner in which the licensee is carrying on
            that business;

       (b) the Board has reason to believe that the licensee or a
            relevant individual of the licensee has committed any
            offence involving dishonesty or moral turpitude;

       (c) the Board has reason to believe that the licensee is
            contravening or has contravened —

               (i) any provision of this Act or the regulations; or

              (ii) any condition of a licence or any code of conduct
                   applicable to the licensee;

       (d) the Board has reason to believe that a relevant individual of
            the licensee is contravening or has contravened, or is
            responsible for another licensee’s contravention of —

               (i) any provision of this Act or the regulations; or

              (ii) any condition of a licence or any code of conduct
                   applicable to the relevant individual or the other
                   licensee, as the case may be;

       (e) the application for the grant or renewal of the licence
            contains a statement or information that is untrue, or
            misleading (including as a result of any omission), in any
            material particular;
2020 Ed.  Travel Agents Act 1975                             11

          (f) all relevant individuals of the licensee are incapable, by
              reason of illness, infirmity or any other cause, of carrying
              on the business of a travel agent;

(g) the licensee has ceased to carry on the business of a travel
     agent; or

       (h) the Board considers it in the public interest to do so.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), where subsection (1)(c) applies,
instead of suspending or revoking the licensee’s licence, the Board
may require the licensee to pay a financial penalty of such amount not
exceeding $2,000, by such date, as the Board may determine.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (3) Subsection (2) does not apply in respect of any contravention
that is prescribed to be an offence under this Act or the regulations.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), before suspending or revoking a
licence under subsection (1) or imposing a financial penalty under
subsection (2), the Board must —

(a) serve the licensee written notice of its intention; and

       (b) give the licensee an opportunity to submit reasons, within
            14 days after the date that the Board serves the written
            notice, why the licence should not be suspended or revoked
            or the financial penalty should not be imposed.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (5) Subsection (4) does not apply where the licensee has died or is
adjudged a bankrupt, or has been dissolved or wound up, or has
otherwise ceased to exist.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (6) Any decision of the Board to suspend or revoke a licence, or
require the payment of a financial penalty, under this section only
takes effect as from the day immediately following the latest of the
following events where applicable:

(a) if no appeal is made against the decision of the Board, the
     expiry of the period allowed under section 11 for the
     licensee to make the appeal;

                                  31.12.2021
12  Travel Agents Act 1975        2020 Ed.

    (b) if an appeal is made against the decision of the Board —

    (i) the appeal is withdrawn;

    (ii) the Minister confirms the Board’s decision under
         section 11; or

    (iii) the Board confirms its decision upon a
          reconsideration required by the Minister under
          section 11.

                                                                                            [47/2017]

 (7) Where any decision of the Board to suspend a licence becomes
effective under subsection (6), the licensee concerned must not,
during the period that the order of suspension is in force, carry on the
business of a travel agent other than doing what is necessary to fulfil
the licensee’s obligations under a contract to supply a travel product,
entered into before the date the order of suspension takes effect.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (8) For the purposes of subsection (1)(d), a relevant individual is
responsible for any contravention of a licensee if the relevant
individual —

    (a) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to effect
         the licensee’s contravention;

    (b) is in any other way, whether by act or omission, knowingly
         concerned in, or is party to, the contravention by the
         licensee; or

      (c) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
           contravention by the licensee (or a contravention of the
           same type) would be or is being effected, and failed to take
           all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the contravention.

                                                                                                         [47/2017]

(9) To avoid doubt —

    (a) subsection (1)(c) applies in relation to any contravention
         by the licensee, whether the contravention occurred before,
         on or after 1 January 2018; and
2020 Ed.  Travel Agents Act 1975                13

(b) subsection (1)(d) applies in relation to —

          (i) any contravention by a relevant individual of the
              licensee, whether the contravention occurred before,
              on or after 1 January 2018; and

          (ii) any contravention by a licensee mentioned in
               subsection (1)(d) for which the relevant individual
               is responsible, whether the contravention occurred
               before, on or after 1 January 2018.

                                                                                                 [47/2017]

 (10) A reference in subsection (7) to the day a decision to suspend
becomes effective includes a reference to the date specified in a
notice, given before 1 January 2018, specifying when a suspension of
a licence takes effect.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

Board may require licensees to inform customers of notice
under section 9

 10.—(1) Where the Board has served a written notice mentioned in
section 9(4) on a licensee, the Board may also require the licensee to
inform each of the following in writing, and in such form or manner
as the Board may specify, of the Board’s notice:

       (a) a person who, as at the date the Board serves the written
            notice, has a contract with the licensee for the licensee to
            supply a travel product, and in respect of which the
            licensee has not fully performed the licensee’s obligations;

       (b) any other person who, in any way, communicates with the
            licensee during the specified period in relation to a travel
            product.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (2) A licensee who is required by the Board to inform a person
mentioned in subsection (1) of the Board’s notice must inform the
person of that fact —

       (a) for a person mentioned in subsection (1)(a) — within
            2 working days after the date the Board serves the written
            notice; and

                                                31.12.2021
14  Travel Agents Act 1975  2020 Ed.

    (b) for a person mentioned in subsection (1)(b) — within
         2 working days after the date of the first communication
         from the person, if the 2 working days fall in the specified
         period, or before entering into a contract with the person
         for the licensee to supply a travel product, whichever is
         earlier.

                                                                                                     [47/2017]

 (3) A licensee who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$4,000.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (4) In this section, “specified period”, in relation to a licensee,
means the period starting on the day the Board serves a written notice
on the licensee under section 9(4) and ending —

    (a) subject to paragraph (b), 3 months (or any longer period
         that may be prescribed in substitution) after that day; or

    (b) if the Board makes a decision under section 9(1) within the
         period mentioned in paragraph (a) —

    (i) where the decision of the Board is to suspend or
        revoke the licensee’s licence, on the day the decision
        becomes effective under section 9(6);

    (ii) where there is an appeal against the Board’s decision
         and the Board’s decision is reversed, on the day the
         decision is reversed; and

    (iii) where the Board decides not to suspend or revoke the
          licence, on the day of the Board’s decision.

                                                                                            [47/2017]

 (5) A written notice in section 9(4) includes a written notice of
intention to suspend a licence given before 1 January 2018.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

Appeal to Minister

 11.—(1) Any person aggrieved by an appealable decision of the
Board may appeal against the decision to the Minister within 14 days
2020 Ed.        Travel Agents Act 1975           15

after notice of the decision is served on the person or any extended
period that the Minister may allow in any particular case.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (2) An appeal made under subsection (1) must be in writing and
state —

(a) the circumstances under which the appeal arises and the
     issues and grounds for the appeal; and

       (b) all relevant facts, evidence and arguments in respect of the
            appeal.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (3) The Minister may require any of the following to provide the
Minister with all such information as the Minister may require for the
purpose of considering and determining the appeal:

(a) the appellant;

(b) the Board;

       (c) any person who is not a party to the appeal but appears to
            the Minister to have information that is relevant to the
            circumstances under which the appeal arises.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (4) The appellant, Board or person (as the case may be) must
provide the information to the Minister in such manner and within
such period as may be specified by the Minister.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (5) The Minister may reject an appeal if the appellant fails to
comply with subsection (2) or (4).

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (6) The Minister may determine an appeal by —

       (a) confirming, varying or reversing the Board’s decision; or

(b) requiring the Board to reconsider the Board’s decision.

                                                                                                 [47/2017]

(7) The Minister’s decision on appeal is final.

                                                 [47/2017]

 (8) Every appellant must be notified of the Minister’s decision
under subsection (6).

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

                                                 31.12.2021
16  Travel Agents Act 1975  2020 Ed.

 (9) The Minister may designate any of the following persons to hear
and determine, in the Minister’s place, any appeal or a specific appeal
to the Minister under subsection (1):

    (a) any Minister of State, including a Senior Minister of State,
         for his or her Ministry;

       (b) any Parliamentary Secretary, including a Senior
            Parliamentary Secretary, to his or her Ministry.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (10) A reference to the Minister in this section (other than in
subsection (1) or (9)) includes a reference to a person designated
under subsection (9).

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (11) In this section, “appealable decision” means a decision of the
Board —

    (a) refusing to grant or renew a licence under section 7(2);

    (b) varying, revoking or imposing a condition under
         section 7A(3);

    (c) suspending or revoking a licence under section 9(1); or

    (d) requiring a person to pay a financial penalty under
         section 9(2).

                                                                                                     [47/2017]

Power of Board to publish information

 12. The Board may, where the Board thinks it necessary or
expedient in the interest of the public and in such form or manner
as the Board thinks fit, publish information relating to —

       (a) a licensee on whom the Board has served a written notice
            mentioned in section 9(4); and

       (b) any action the Board takes under section 9(1) or (2).

                                                                                                           [47/2017]
2020 Ed.  Travel Agents Act 1975     17

                      PART 3

                      GENERAL

Furnishing false, etc., information

13. Any person who —

(a) in connection with any application for the grant or renewal
     of a licence; or

(b) for any other purpose under this Act or the regulations,

makes any statement or furnishes any information to the Board or an
officer of the Board that the person knows, or ought reasonably to
know, is false, or misleading (including by reason of any omission),
in any material particular, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

Wrongful conversion and false accounts

 14.—(1) Any licensee who —

       (a) fraudulently converts to the licensee’s own use or to the use
            of any other person —

               (i) any money or part thereof received by the licensee on
                   behalf of any person in respect of any transaction in
                   the licensee’s capacity as a travel agent; or

              (ii) any money or part thereof so received which are held
                   by the licensee in trust pending the completion of any
                   transaction;

       (b) fraudulently omits to account for, deliver or pay —

               (i) any such money or part thereof so received by the
                   licensee on behalf of any person to such person; or

              (ii) any such money or part thereof so received by the
                   licensee which are or were held by the licensee in
                   trust as aforesaid pending the completion of the
                   transaction to the person or persons entitled to such
                   money; or

                                     31.12.2021
18  Travel Agents Act 1975  2020 Ed.

    (c) fraudulently renders an account knowing the account to be
        false in any material particular of —

    (i) any such money or part thereof so received by the
        licensee on behalf of any person;

    (ii) any money so received by the licensee which is or
         was held by the licensee in trust pending the
         completion of any transaction or any part of such
         money; or

    (iii) expenses, commission or other charges incidental to
          any transaction or proposed or contemplated
          transaction as a travel agent,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years.

 (2) Nothing in this section is to be construed to limit or in any way
affect the provisions of any other written law.

Power to search premises

 15. Any officer of the Board or any police officer, on being satisfied
upon any information and after any further inquiry which he or she
thinks necessary that there is good reason to believe that any place is
used for the carrying on of the business of a travel agent by a person
who is not the holder of a licence, may with such assistance and by
such force as is necessary, by day or by night —

       (a) enter or go to the place and search the place and all persons
            found in the place;

       (b) seize all documents and things reasonably supposed to
            have been used or intended to be used in connection with
            the business of a travel agent which are found in the place
            or on such persons; and

       (c) detain all such persons until they and the place have been
            searched.
2020 Ed.         Travel Agents Act 1975              19

Power to arrest

 16.—(1) Any police officer or any officer of the Board authorised
in writing in that behalf by the Board may without warrant arrest any
person whom he or she reasonably suspects to have committed an
offence under this Act.

 (2) Any police officer or any officer of the Board authorised in
writing in that behalf by the Board to arrest a person under
subsection (1) may search that person and take possession of all
articles found on that person which there is reason to believe were
used in connection with the offence.

 (3) Every person arrested must be taken to the office of the Board or
a police station.

(4) A woman must not be searched except by a woman.

Power to investigate

 17. In any case relating to the commission of an offence under this
Act or the regulations, any police officer and any officer of the Board
authorised in writing in that behalf by the Board may exercise all or
any of the special powers in relation to any arrestable case mentioned
in section 18(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

Powers of Board

 18.—(1) Any police officer and any officer of the Board authorised
in writing in that behalf by the Board, for the purposes of the
execution of this Act or the regulations, has power to do all or any of
the following:

       (a) to enter, inspect and examine, by day or by night, the place
            of business of any licensee;

       (b) to require any person to produce any document relevant to
            the execution of this Act or the regulations and to inspect,
            examine and make copies or retain any of the documents;

                                                     31.12.2021
20  Travel Agents Act 1975                           2020 Ed.

    (c) to make any inquiry that may be necessary to ascertain

        whether the provisions of this Act or the regulations are
        complied with by any licensee, licensee’s employee or
        licensee’s agent who assists in carrying on the business of a
        travel agent;

      (d) to take such photograph or audio or video recording as the
           police officer or authorised officer of the Board thinks
           necessary, of any place, or of any individual reasonably
           believed to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances
           relevant to any contravention of this Act or the regulations.

                                                                                                         [47/2017]

(2) In this section, “place” includes —

    (a) any building or structure, whether permanent or
         temporary;

    (b) any land, whether built on or not;

    (c) any place, whether open or enclosed, including any place
        situated underground or underwater;

    (d) any vehicle, vessel, train or aircraft; and

    (e) any part of any place mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (d).

                                                                                                    [47/2017]

Obstruction of search, etc.

 19. Any person who —

       (a) refuses any police officer or any officer of the Board
            authorised to enter or search access to any place;

       (b) assaults, obstructs, hinders or delays a police officer or an
            officer of the Board in effecting any entrance which the
            police officer or officer of the Board is entitled to effect
            under this Act, or in the execution of any duty imposed or
            power conferred by this Act;

       (c) fails to comply with any lawful demand of a police officer
            or an officer of the Board in the execution of the duty of the
            police officer or officer of the Board under this Act; or
2020 Ed.      Travel Agents Act 1975                        21

(d) refuses or neglects to give any information which may
     reasonably be required of the person and which the person
     has it in the person’s power to give,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $4,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

Offences by corporations

 20.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act or the
regulations, it is necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation
in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

(a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
     that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
     apparent authority; and

(b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

                                                          [47/2017]

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act or the
regulations, a person —

(a) who is —

          (i) an officer of the corporation, or a member of a
              corporation (in the case where the affairs of the
              corporation are managed by its members); or

          (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
               corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
               of the corporation in relation to the commission of
               the offence; and

(b) who —

          (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
              effect the commission of the offence;

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the corporation; or

                                                          31.12.2021
22  Travel Agents Act 1975                            2020 Ed.

    (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
          offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
          type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
          take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
          commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

    (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act or the regulations, and
applies whether or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (6) In this section —

    “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
       meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
       Act 2005;

    “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
       partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
       officer of the corporation, and includes —

    (a) any person purporting to act in that capacity; and

    (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
         members, any of those members as if the member
         were a director of the corporation;
2020 Ed.  Travel Agents Act 1975        23

“state of mind” of a person includes —

          (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
               of the person; and

          (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
               or purpose.

                                                                                                 [47/2017]

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 20A.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act or
the regulations, it is necessary to prove the state of mind of an
unincorporated association or a partnership in relation to a particular
conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act or the regulations, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership in
                   relation to the commission of the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

                                        31.12.2021
24  Travel Agents Act 1975                            2020 Ed.

    (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
         knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
         commission of the offence by the unincorporated
         association or partnership; or

    (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
          offence by the unincorporated association or
          partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
          be or is being committed, and failed to take all
          reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
          that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership, and shall be liable on conviction to be
punished accordingly.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

    (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act or the regulations, and applies whether or not the
unincorporated association or partnership is convicted of the offence.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (6) In this section —

    “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
       a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
       member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
       and includes —
2020 Ed.  Travel Agents Act 1975                             25

          (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
               president, secretary or member of a committee of the
               unincorporated association; and

        (b) any person purporting to act in that capacity;
“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

“state of mind” of a person includes —

          (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
               of the person; and

          (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
               or purpose.

                                                                                                 [47/2017]

Disclosure of information

 21.—(1) A person must not disclose any information obtained by
him or her in connection with the administration or execution of this
Act or the regulations, unless the disclosure is made —

       (a) with the consent of the person from whom the information
            was obtained;

       (b) in connection with the administration or execution of this
            Act or the regulations;

       (c) under and in accordance with any other written law;

       (d) for the purposes of any legal proceedings arising out of this
            Act or the regulations or of any report of those
            proceedings; or

       (e) for the purpose of objecting to an application for a licence
            or of any investigation conducted under this Act.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$4,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

                                        31.12.2021
26                    Travel Agents Act 1975        2020 Ed.

Service of documents

 22.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act or the
regulations to be served on a person may be served as described in
this section.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act or the regulations
to be served on an individual may be served —

    (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

    (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
         specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
         if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
         address or business address;

    (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
        adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
        business address with an adult apparently employed there;

    (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
         at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual; or

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s email address.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act or the regulations
to be served on a partnership (other than a limited liability
partnership) may be served —

    (a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer of the
         partnership;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the partnership’s business address;

    (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
        partnership’s business address; or

    (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s email address.

                                                                                                     [47/2017]
2020 Ed.  Travel Agents Act 1975  27

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act or the regulations
to be served on a body corporate (including a limited liability
partnership) or an unincorporated association may be served —

(a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
     body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
     limited liability partnership’s manager;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the body corporate’s or unincorporated association’s
     registered office or principal office in Singapore;

      (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the body
           corporate’s or unincorporated association’s registered
           office or principal office in Singapore; or

      (d) by sending it by email to the body corporate’s or
           unincorporated association’s email address.

                                                                                                         [47/2017]

(5) Service of a document under this section takes effect —

(a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
     successful transmission is received, on the day of
     transmission;

(b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
     becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
     the document is sent; and

       (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
            after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
            undelivered).

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (6) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (7) In this section —

      “business address” means —

          (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
               last known place of business in Singapore; or

                                  31.12.2021
28  Travel Agents Act 1975        2020 Ed.

    (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
         liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
         last known place of business in Singapore;

    “email address” means the last email address given by the
       addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
       document as the email address for the service of documents
       under this Act or the regulations;

    “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
       place of residence in Singapore.

                                  [47/2017]

23. [Repealed by Act 47 of 2017]

Authentication of documents

 24. Every summons, process, demand, order, notice, statement,
direction or document requiring authentication by the Board may be
sufficiently authenticated without the seal of the Board if signed by
the Chairperson or the Chief Executive of the Board, or an officer of
the Board authorised for this purpose by the Board.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

Consent of Public Prosecutor

 25. No court is to try an offence under section 14 except with the
consent of the Public Prosecutor.

                                                                                                [15/2010; 47/2017]

Conduct of proceedings

 26. Proceedings in respect of any offence under this Act or the
regulations may, with the authorisation of the Public Prosecutor, be
conducted by any officer authorised in writing in that behalf by the
Chairperson or the Chief Executive of the Board.

                                                                                                [15/2010; 47/2017]

Composition of offences

 27.—(1) The Board may compound any offence under this Act or
the regulations that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by
collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having committed
the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:
2020 Ed.     Travel Agents Act 1975  29

(a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
     prescribed for the offence;

(b) $5,000.

                                     [47/2017]

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

Recovery of financial penalties, etc.

 27A.—(1) Any person who fails to pay a financial penalty by the
date the person is required to do so under this Act is liable to pay, after
that date, interest on the amount unpaid at the same rate as for a
judgment debt.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (2) Any financial penalty and any interest on the financial penalty
payable by any person under this Act must be paid to the Board and is
recoverable by the Board as a debt due to the Board from that person;
and the person’s liability to pay is not affected by the person’s licence
ceasing (for any reason) to be in force.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (3) The Board may (in any case it thinks fit) waive, remit or refund,
in whole or in part, any financial penalty or any interest on the
financial penalty payable under this Act.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

 (4) All financial penalties and interest on the financial penalties
collected by the Board under this Act must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [47/2017]

Regulations

 28.—(1) The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations generally for carrying out the provisions of this Act and
for prescribing anything that is to be prescribed and, in particular,
may make regulations for all or any of the following purposes:

                                     31.12.2021
30  Travel Agents Act 1975                           2020 Ed.

    (a) prescribing the information and documents to be furnished
         by an applicant for a licence or by a licensee;

    (b) prescribing the procedure to be followed on applications
         and other proceedings under this Act;

    (c) prescribing the books, accounts (including trust accounts)
        and records to be kept by a licensee and the form and mode
        of keeping those books, accounts and records;

    (d) prescribing —

    (i) the fees and charges payable under this Act or the
        regulations, including fees for a licence; and

    (ii) the interest or penalty for the late payment of any fee
         or charge;

    (e) providing for the waiver, refund or remission, whether in
        whole or in part, of any fee or charge or the interest or
        penalty for the late payment of any fee or charge, either
        generally or in any particular case or class of cases or in the
        discretion of any person;

    (f) prescribing requirements applicable to licensees, including
        minimum financial requirements that the licensee must
        satisfy throughout the currency of the licence;

    (g) regulating the conduct of licensees in their business,
         including —

    (i) imposing restrictions or obligations on licensees in
        relation to any variation or termination of a contract
        for the supply by the licensee of a travel product; and

    (ii) providing a code of conduct for licensees;

    (h) prescribing duties applicable to directors of, or individuals
         employed or engaged by, licensees;

    (i) to exempt any persons or classes of persons from the
        provisions of this Act.

                                                                                                    [47/2017]
2020 Ed.  Travel Agents Act 1975  31

 (2) The regulations made under this section may provide that a
contravention of any provision of the regulations shall be punishable
with a fine not exceeding $10,000 or with imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 12 months or with both and, in the case of a continuing
offence, with a further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

                                  31.12.2021
                 LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
               TRAVEL AGENTS ACT 1975

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 41 of 1975 — Travel Agents Act, 1975

Bill                     : 41/1975

First Reading            : 29 July 1975

Second Reading           : 19 August 1975

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 7 of 1975

Third Reading            : 11 November 1975

Commencement             : 1 December 1976

2. 1985 Revised Edition — Travel Agents Act (Chapter 334)

Operation                : 30 March 1987

3. Act 24 of 1993 — Travel Agents (Amendment) Act 1993

Bill                     : 18/1993

First Reading            : 28 May 1993

Second and Third Readings : 30 July 1993

Commencement             : 3 December 1993

4. 1998 Revised Edition — Travel Agents Act (Chapter 334)

Operation                : 30 May 1998

5. Act 21 of 2008 — Mental Health (Care and Treatment) Act 2008
   (Amendments made by section 33 read with item 1(49) of the Second
   Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                     : 11/2008

First Reading            : 21 July 2008

Second and Third Readings : 15 September 2008

Commencement             : 1 March 2010 (section 33 read with
                               item 1(49) of the Second Schedule)

6. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
   (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 111 of the Sixth Schedule
   to the above Act)

Bill                     : 11/2010

                                                           31.12.2021
                ii

First Reading   : 26 April 2010

Second Reading  : 18 May 2010

Third Reading   : 19 May 2010

Commencement    : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                      item 111 of the Sixth Schedule)

7. Act 16 of 2016 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2016
   (Amendments made by section 46 of the above Act)

Bill            : 15/2016

First Reading   : 14 April 2016

Second and Third Readings : 9 May 2016

Commencement    : 10 June 2016 (section 46)

8. Act 47 of 2017 — Travel Agents (Amendment) Act 2017

Bill            : 41/2017

First Reading   : 2 October 2017

Second and Third Readings : 7 November 2017

Commencement    : 1 January 2018
                             iii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
