THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                   TRANSBOUNDARY HAZE
                     POLLUTION ACT 2014

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                                                                   2020 Ed.

         Transboundary Haze
          Pollution Act 2014

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Participation of entity in management of another entity
     2.  Extraterritorial application
     3.
     4.

                                       PART 2

     LIABILITY FOR TRANSBOUNDARY HAZE POLLUTION

5. Offences for causing, etc., haze pollution in Singapore
6. Civil liability for causing, etc., haze pollution in Singapore
7. Defences
8. Presumptions

                                        PART 3

                                ADMINISTRATION

 9. Preventive measures notice to prevent, reduce or control haze
         pollution

10. Power to obtain information
11. Power to examine and secure attendance, etc.
12. Public servants
13. Protection from personal liability
14. Penalty for obstructing Director-General or authorised officer in

         his or her duty

                                        PART 4
                                 MISCELLANEOUS
15. Service of documents, etc.

                                                      1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Transboundary Haze

2020 Ed.  Pollution Act 2014                                        2

Section   Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
          Notice to attend court
   16.    Jurisdiction of court
   17.    Composition of offences
   18.    Notices may be given by authorised officer
   19.    Inaccuracies in documents
   20.    Evidence
   21.    Forms
   22.    Regulations
   23.
   24.

An Act concerning conduct which causes or contributes to haze
  pollution in Singapore, and to provide for related matters.

                                                         [25 September 2014]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Transboundary Haze Pollution Act 2014.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “Agency” means the National Environment Agency established
         under section 3 of the National Environment Agency
         Act 2002;

      “air quality index”, for any area, means a number that describes,
         through such periodic recording and methodology as the
         Agency approves, the presence and movement of pollutants
         and particles in the air environment outdoors in that area
         relative to the health, wellbeing, needs and purposes of
         human beings;

      “authorised officer” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
         Environmental Protection and Management Act 1999;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
   Transboundary Haze

3  Pollution Act 2014                                        2020 Ed.

   “conduct” means any act or omission, any series of acts or
      omissions, or both;

   “conduct which causes or contributes to any haze pollution in
      Singapore” includes lighting fires outdoors for or in
      connection with any farming operation or forestry
      operation and leaving unattended such fires;

   “Director-General” means the Director-General of
      Environmental Protection appointed under section 3(1) of
      the Environmental Protection and Management Act 1999;

   “document” includes —

   (a) any map, plan, graph or drawing;

   (b) any photograph;

   (c) any label, marking or other writing which identifies
       or describes anything of which it forms a part, or to
       which it is attached by any means;

   (d) any disc, tape or other article or any material from
        which sounds, images, writings or messages are
        capable of being produced or reproduced (with or
        without the aid of another article or device); and

   (e) any paper or other material on which there are marks,
       impressions, figures, letters, symbols or perforations
       having a meaning for persons qualified to interpret
       them;

   “engage in conduct” means engage, whether directly or
      indirectly, in conduct either alone or together with any
      other person or persons;

   “entity” means any sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation
      or other body of persons, whether corporate or unincorporate;

   “farming operations” means activities carried out for the
      purpose of —

   (a) establishing a plantation or farm (such as the clearing
        of land, or the use of pesticides, herbicides and
        fertilisers); or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Transboundary Haze

2020 Ed.  Pollution Act 2014                                        4

          (b) securing —

          (i) the production on the land (whether by sowing
              seed or otherwise), on an ongoing basis, of food
              or other produce; or

          (ii) the commercial breeding of livestock or poultry
               on land,

          and includes the provision of roads and trails, and the
          maintenance of existing railways, to enable or assist in the
          operations and activities mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) or
          both;

“forestry operations” means —

          (a) logging operations;

          (b) activities relating to the management of land for
               timber production such as thinning and other
               silvicultural activities;

          (c) harvesting or collecting vegetation (whether living or
              dead and whether fallen or standing), indigenous
              animal life or other forest products that are of
              economic value; or

          (d) the provision of roads and trails, and the maintenance
               of existing railways, to enable or assist in any, or any
               combination, of the operations and activities referred
               to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c);

“grave natural disaster or phenomenon” means a natural disaster
   or other natural phenomenon of an exceptional, inevitable
   and irresistible character, the effects of which could not have
   been prevented by human action or avoided by the exercise of
   due care or foresight;

“haze pollution in Singapore” means pollution of the
   environment in Singapore comprising any poor air quality
   episode involving smoke from any land or forest fire wholly
   outside Singapore;

“land or forest fire” includes coal seam fire, peat fire or
   plantation fire;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
   Transboundary Haze

5  Pollution Act 2014                                        2020 Ed.

   “logging operations” means the cutting and removal of timber
      from land for the purpose of timber production;

   “occupier”, in relation to any land situated in a foreign State or
      territory outside Singapore, includes, if there is no person in
      actual occupation of the land, the person charged by the
      owner of the land, or by the law of the foreign State or
      territory, with the management of that land;

   “owner”, in relation to any land situated in a foreign State or
      territory outside Singapore, includes any person —

   (a) who holds a valid lease, licence, permit, concession
        or other similar authorisation from a government of
        the foreign State or territory as regards the land for
        the person to carry out farming operations or forestry
        operations in respect of that land; or

   (b) who has an agreement or arrangement with another
        person who has a customary right under the law of the
        foreign State or territory as regards the land, and the
        agreement or arrangement relates to any farming
        operations or forestry operations to be carried out by
        any person in respect of that land;

   “pollution” means wide-scale direct or indirect alteration of the
      environment —

   (a) to its detriment or degradation, or potential detriment
        or degradation; or

   (b) to the detriment or potential detriment of its use or
        other environmental value;

   “preventive measures notice” means a notice issued by the
      Director-General under section 9(1);

   “smoke” includes soot, ash, grit and gritty particles emitted in
      smoke;

   “the environment” means —

   (a) any land, air or water;

   (b) any living thing; and

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Transboundary Haze

2020 Ed.  Pollution Act 2014                                        6

          (c) any man-made or modified structures and areas,

          and includes interactions between all or any of the
          components mentioned in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c).

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a poor air quality episode occurs
when —

(a) the air quality index for any part of Singapore reaches the
     prescribed number on the index or higher; and

(b) for the next 24 hours or longer, the air quality index for the
     same part or any other part of Singapore remains at or
     reaches that number so prescribed or higher.

 (3) Any reference in this Act to a person (called in this subsection
the primary person) engaging in conduct that condones the conduct of
or by another person (called in this subsection the secondary person)
which causes or contributes to any haze pollution in Singapore is a
reference to —

(a) the primary person failing to prevent such conduct of the
     secondary person as is within the primary person’s
     contemplation or that is a reasonably foreseeable
     consequence of the primary person’s own conduct; or

(b) if the secondary person’s conduct has already occurred —

          (i) the primary person failing to stop the secondary
              person’s conduct from continuing; or

          (ii) the primary person failing to substantially reduce the
               detriment or potential detriment to the environment
               in Singapore or its use or other environmental value,
               or the degradation or potential degradation to the
               environment in Singapore, due to the secondary
               person’s conduct.

Participation of entity in management of another entity

 3. For the purposes of this Act, an entity (called in this section the
first entity) participates in the management of another entity (called in
this section the second entity) if, and only if —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
   Transboundary Haze

7  Pollution Act 2014                                        2020 Ed.

   (a) the first entity actually participates in the management or
        operational affairs of the second entity;

   (b) the first entity exercises decision-making control over any
        business decision by the second entity to engage in conduct
        or to engage in conduct that condones any conduct by
        another entity or individual, on any land outside Singapore
        (being land owned or occupied by the second entity),
        which causes or contributes to any haze pollution in
        Singapore; or

   (c) the first entity exercises control at a level comparable to
       that exercised by a manager of the second entity, such that
       the first entity assumes or manifests responsibility —

   (i) for the overall management of the second entity
       encompassing the day-to-day decision-making with
       respect to any business decision to engage in conduct
       or to engage in conduct that condones any conduct
       by another entity or individual, on any land outside
       Singapore (being land owned or occupied by the
       second entity), which causes or contributes to any
       haze pollution in Singapore; or

   (ii) for all or a substantial part of the operational
        functions (as distinguished from financial or
        administrative functions) of the second entity.

Extraterritorial application

 4. This Act extends to and in relation to any conduct or thing
outside Singapore which causes or contributes to any haze pollution
in Singapore.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                  Transboundary Haze

2020 Ed.          Pollution Act 2014                                8

                  PART 2

LIABILITY FOR TRANSBOUNDARY HAZE POLLUTION

Offences for causing, etc., haze pollution in Singapore

5.—(1) An entity shall be guilty of an offence if —

(a) the entity —

          (i) engages in conduct (whether in or outside Singapore)
              which causes or contributes to any haze pollution in
              Singapore; or

          (ii) engages in conduct (whether in or outside Singapore)
               that condones any conduct (whether in or outside
               Singapore) by another entity or individual which
               causes or contributes to any haze pollution in
               Singapore; and

(b) there is haze pollution in Singapore at or about the time of
     that conduct by that entity.

 (2) An entity which is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)
shall be liable on conviction to —

(a) a fine not exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day
     that there is haze pollution in Singapore occurring at or
     about the time of the entity’s conduct mentioned in
     subsection (1)(a)(i) or (ii) (as the case may be), but not
     exceeding in the aggregate the maximum prescribed in
     subsection (5); and

(b) if it is proved that, at or about the time of that haze
     pollution in Singapore, the entity had failed to comply with
     any preventive measures notice given in relation to that
     haze pollution in Singapore, then in addition to any fine
     imposed under paragraph (a), a fine not exceeding $50,000
     for every day or part of a day that the entity fails to comply
     with the preventive measures notice, but not exceeding in
     the aggregate the maximum prescribed in subsection (5).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
   Transboundary Haze

9  Pollution Act 2014                                        2020 Ed.

   (3) An entity shall be guilty of an offence if —

   (a) the entity participates in the management of another entity
        (called in this subsection the second entity);

   (b) the second entity is an owner or occupier of any land
        situated outside Singapore;

   (c) the second entity —

   (i) engages in conduct (whether in or outside Singapore)
       which causes or contributes to any haze pollution in
       Singapore; or

   (ii) engages in conduct (whether in or outside Singapore)
        that condones any conduct (whether in or outside
        Singapore) by another entity or individual which
        causes or contributes to any haze pollution in
        Singapore; and

   (d) there is haze pollution in Singapore at or about the time of
        that conduct by the second entity.

 (4) An entity which is guilty of an offence under subsection (3)
shall be liable on conviction to —

   (a) a fine not exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day
        that there is haze pollution in Singapore occurring at or
        about the time of the entity’s conduct mentioned in
        subsection (3)(c)(i) or (ii) (as the case may be), but not
        exceeding in the aggregate the maximum prescribed in
        subsection (5); and

   (b) if it is proved that, at or about the time of that haze
        pollution in Singapore, the entity had failed to comply with
        any preventive measures notice given in relation to that
        haze pollution in Singapore, then in addition to any fine
        imposed under paragraph (a), a fine not exceeding $50,000
        for every day or part of a day that the entity fails to comply
        with the preventive measures notice, but not exceeding in
        the aggregate the maximum prescribed in subsection (5).

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Transboundary Haze

2020 Ed.  Pollution Act 2014                                        10

 (5) In sentencing any entity upon its conviction of an offence under
subsection (1) or (3), the court must not impose an aggregate fine
exceeding $2 million.

Civil liability for causing, etc., haze pollution in Singapore

 6.—(1) It is a duty of an entity —

       (a) not to engage in conduct (whether in or outside Singapore)
            which causes or contributes to any haze pollution in
            Singapore; and

       (b) not to engage in conduct (whether in or outside Singapore)
            that condones any conduct (whether in or outside
            Singapore) by another entity or individual which causes
            or contributes to any haze pollution in Singapore.

 (2) It is a duty of an entity which participates in the management of
another entity (called in this subsection the second entity) that is the
owner or occupier of any land situated outside Singapore to ensure
that —

       (a) the second entity does not engage in conduct (whether in or
            outside Singapore) which causes or contributes to any haze
            pollution in Singapore; and

       (b) the second entity does not engage in conduct (whether in or
            outside Singapore) that condones any conduct (whether in
            or outside Singapore) by another entity or individual which
            causes or contributes to any haze pollution in Singapore.

 (3) Where an entity engages in conduct that is in breach of any duty
under subsection (1) or (2), then, subject to section 7 and the defences
and other incidents applicable to actions for breach of statutory duty,
such conduct is actionable conduct at the suit of any person in
Singapore who, in consequence of that breach —

       (a) sustains any personal injury, contracts any disease or
            sustains any mental or physical incapacity in Singapore, or
            dies in Singapore from that personal injury, disease or
            incapacity;

       (b) sustains any physical damage to property in Singapore; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Transboundary Haze

11  Pollution Act 2014                                        2020 Ed.

    (c) sustains any economic loss, including a loss of profits, in
        Singapore.

 (4) A cause of action for any actionable conduct mentioned in
subsection (3) is actionable in Singapore, whether or not that conduct
is also actionable in the foreign jurisdiction where that conduct
occurred.

Defences

 7.—(1) It is a defence to a prosecution for an offence under
section 5(1) or (3), and to a civil claim for a breach of duty under
section 6(1) or (2), if the accused or defendant (as the case may be)
proves, on a balance of probabilities, that the haze pollution in
Singapore was caused solely by —

       (a) a grave natural disaster or phenomenon; or

       (b) an act of war.

 (2) It is also a defence to a prosecution for an offence under
section 5(1) for engaging in conduct which causes or contributes to
any haze pollution in Singapore, and to a civil claim for a breach of
duty under section 6(1) not to engage in conduct which causes or
contributes to any haze pollution in Singapore, if the accused or
defendant (as the case may be) proves, on a balance of probabilities,
that the conduct which caused or contributed to the haze pollution in
Singapore was by another person acting without the accused’s or
defendant’s knowledge or consent, or contrary to the accused’s or
defendant’s wishes or instructions; but that other person cannot be —

       (a) any employee or agent of the accused or defendant, as the
            case may be;

       (b) any person engaged, directly or indirectly, by the accused
            or defendant (as the case may be) to carry out any work on
            the land owned or occupied by the accused or defendant,
            and any of that person’s employees; or

       (c) any person who has a customary right under the law of a
            foreign State or territory outside Singapore as regards the
            land in that foreign State or territory and with whom the
            accused or defendant (as the case may be) has an

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Transboundary Haze

2020 Ed.  Pollution Act 2014                                        12

          agreement or arrangement, which agreement or
          arrangement relates to any farming operations or forestry
          operations to be carried out by any person in respect of that
          land.

 (3) It is also a defence to a prosecution for an offence under
section 5(1) for engaging in conduct which condones any conduct by
another entity or individual which causes or contributes to any haze
pollution in Singapore, and to a civil claim for a breach of duty under
section 6(1) not to engage in conduct condoning any conduct by
another entity or individual which causes or contributes to any haze
pollution in Singapore, if the accused or defendant (as the case may
be) proves, on a balance of probabilities, that —

(a) the accused or defendant took all such measures as are (or
     were at the material time) reasonable to prevent such
     conduct by the other entity or individual; and

(b) if the conduct by the other entity or individual already
     occurred, the accused or defendant took all such measures
     as are (or were at the material time) reasonable to stop that
     conduct from continuing or to substantially reduce the
     detriment or potential detriment to the environment in
     Singapore or its use or other environmental value, or the
     degradation or potential degradation to the environment in
     Singapore, due to the other entity’s or individual’s conduct.

 (4) It is also a defence to a prosecution for an offence under
section 5(3), or a civil claim for a breach of duty under section 6(2), if
the accused or defendant (as the case may be) proves, on a balance of
probabilities, that the conduct which caused or contributed to the haze
pollution in Singapore was by another person acting without the
knowledge or consent of the accused or defendant and the second
entity mentioned in section 5(3) or 6(2), or contrary to the wishes or
instructions of the accused or defendant and that second entity; but
that other person cannot be —

(a) any employee or agent of the accused or defendant (as the
     case may be) or of the second entity mentioned in
     section 5(3) or 6(2);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Transboundary Haze

13  Pollution Act 2014                                        2020 Ed.

    (b) any person engaged, directly or indirectly, by the accused
         or defendant (as the case may be) or by the second entity
         mentioned in section 5(3) or 6(2), to carry out any work on
         the land owned or occupied by the second entity, and any
         of that person’s employees; or

    (c) any person who has a customary right under the law of a
        foreign State or territory outside Singapore as regards the
        land in that foreign State or territory, and with whom the
        accused or defendant (as the case may be) or the second
        entity has an agreement or arrangement, which agreement
        or arrangement relates to any farming operations or
        forestry operations to be carried out by any person in
        respect of that land.

Presumptions

 8.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, where it is proved that —

       (a) there is haze pollution in Singapore;

       (b) at or about the time of the haze pollution in Singapore,
            there is a land or forest fire on any land situated outside
            Singapore; and

       (c) based on satellite information, wind velocity and direction
            and other meteorological information at or about the time
            of the haze pollution in Singapore, the smoke resulting
            from that fire is moving in the direction of Singapore,

it is presumed, until the contrary is proved, that there is haze pollution
in Singapore involving smoke resulting from that land or forest fire,
even though there may be, at or about the same time, any land or
forest fire or other fire on any other land situated outside Singapore
(whether or not adjacent to the land mentioned in paragraph (b)) or in
any part of Singapore.

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, where —

       (a) it is proved, or presumed by the operation of
            subsection (4), that an entity owns or occupies any land
            situated outside Singapore; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Transboundary Haze

2020 Ed.  Pollution Act 2014                                        14

(b) it is further proved, or presumed by the operation of
     subsection (1), that any haze pollution in Singapore
     involves smoke resulting from any fire on that land
     outside Singapore,

it is presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the entity which is the
owner or occupier of the land engaged in conduct, or engaged in
conduct that condones any conduct by another entity or individual,
which caused or contributed to that haze pollution in Singapore.

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, where —

(a) it is proved that an entity (called in this subsection the first
     entity) participates in the management of another entity
     (called in this subsection the second entity); and

(b) it is further proved, or presumed by the operation of
     subsection (2), that the second entity engaged in conduct,
     or engaged in conduct that condones any conduct by
     another entity or individual, which caused or contributed to
     any haze pollution in Singapore,

it is presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the first entity also did
engage in conduct, or did engage in conduct that condones any
conduct by another entity or individual, which caused or contributed
to that haze pollution in Singapore.

 (4) For the purposes of this Act, it is presumed, until the contrary is
proved, that the entity owns or occupies any land situated outside
Singapore if any of the following maps show the land as owned or
occupied by that entity:

(a) any map provided by, or obtained from, any person
     pursuant to a notice issued under section 10;

(b) any map provided by, or obtained from, any government of
     a foreign State or territory outside Singapore;

          (c) any map provided by, or obtained from, any department of
              the government of a foreign State or territory outside
              Singapore, or any instrumentality of the government of a
              foreign State or territory outside Singapore even if separate
              and distinct from that government;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Transboundary Haze

15  Pollution Act 2014                                        2020 Ed.

    (d) any map provided by any prescribed person through any
         prescribed means.

                                    PART 3

                            ADMINISTRATION

Preventive measures notice to prevent, reduce or control haze
pollution

 9.—(1) Where —

       (a) there is air pollution of the environment in Singapore, or
            there is air pollution of the environment in any part of a
            country or territory outside Singapore, because of any land
            or forest fire on any land situated outside Singapore; and

       (b) based on satellite information, wind velocity and direction
            and meteorological information, the smoke from that fire is
            likely to move in the direction of Singapore,

the Director-General may, if he or she thinks it necessary or expedient
to prevent, reduce or control any haze pollution in Singapore, give a
preventive measures notice to any entity that, in the
Director-General’s opinion, is directly or indirectly involved in any
conduct which is causing or contributing to, or is likely to cause or
contribute to, any haze pollution in Singapore.

 (2) A preventive measures notice under subsection (1) is a written
request to an entity (called in this subsection the recipient entity)
requiring it to do or refrain from doing anything specified by the
Director-General in the notice for the purpose of preventing, reducing
or controlling any haze pollution in Singapore, such as but not limited
to any of the following:

       (a) to deploy firefighting personnel and to use any other
            reasonable methods to extinguish or prevent the spread of
            any land or forest fire on any land situated outside
            Singapore which is owned or occupied by the recipient
            entity, or by another entity, the management of which the
            recipient entity participates in;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Transboundary Haze

2020 Ed.  Pollution Act 2014                                        16

(b) to discontinue, or not commence, any burning activities on
     such land mentioned in paragraph (a);

          (c) to submit to the Director-General any plan of action to
              extinguish or prevent the spread of any fire on any land
              mentioned in paragraph (a) and to prevent its recurrence.

 (3) In this section, “fire” includes a fire the Director-General has
reasonable grounds for believing may exist.

Power to obtain information

 10.—(1) The Director-General or an authorised officer may give
written notice to any person (whether in or outside Singapore)
requiring the person to provide, within such reasonable period and in
such form and manner as specified in the notice, all documents and
information —

       (a) which relate to any matter necessary to carry out the
            functions or duties of, or assigned to, the Director-General
            or the Agency by or under any provision of this Act; and

       (b) which are within that person’s knowledge or in that
            person’s custody or under that person’s control.

 (2) The power to require a person to provide any document or
information under subsection (1) includes the power —

       (a) to require that person, or any individual who is or was an
            officer or employee of that person, to provide an
            explanation of the document or information;

       (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
            that person to state, to the best of that person’s knowledge
            and belief, where it is; and

       (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            Agency in legible form.

 (3) A notice under subsection (1) must be served on a person in the
following manner and no other manner:

       (a) where the person is an individual in Singapore — by
            delivering the notice personally to the person;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Transboundary Haze

17  Pollution Act 2014                                        2020 Ed.

    (b) where the person is a body corporate, an unincorporated
         association or a partnership in Singapore — by delivering
         the notice personally to an officer of the body corporate or
         unincorporated association, or a partner of the partnership;

    (c) where the person is a body corporate, an unincorporated
        association or a partnership in Singapore and participates
        in the management of a body corporate, an unincorporated
        association or a partnership outside Singapore — by
        delivering the notice personally to an officer of the
        firstmentioned body corporate or unincorporated
        association, or a partner of the firstmentioned partnership;

    (d) where the person is a body corporate, an unincorporated
         association or a partnership which does not have any place
         of business in Singapore — by delivering the notice
         personally to an officer of the body corporate or
         unincorporated association, or a partner of the
         partnership when the officer or partner is in Singapore;

    (e) where the person has consented to the service of the notice
        by any mode — by that mode.

 (4) A notice under subsection (1) to any person takes effect only
from the date the notice is served on the person and must also specify
the period (which runs from the date the notice takes effect) within
which the person must comply with the notice.

 (5) Where a court is satisfied that any person served with a notice
under subsection (1) intends to leave Singapore, the court may, on the
application of the Public Prosecutor but after giving due regard to the
person’s circumstances, by order require the person to remain in
Singapore for such period as the court considers reasonable to ensure
that the person complies with the notice.

 (6) If a person (whether in or outside Singapore) who is served with
a notice under subsection (1), without reasonable excuse, fails to do
or refrain from doing anything required of the person by that notice,
the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding one month or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                        Transboundary Haze

2020 Ed.                Pollution Act 2014                          18

 (7) If a person in Singapore on whom a notice under subsection (1)
is served —

(a) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any document
     or information which the person has been required by the
     notice to provide; or

(b) in providing any document or information required by the
     notice, makes any statement which the person knows to be
     false in a material particular, or recklessly makes such a
     statement,

that person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

 (8) If any person fails to comply with a notice under subsection (1),
the court may, on the application of the Director-General or an
authorised officer, make such order as the court thinks fit to secure
compliance with that notice, and any such order may provide that all
the costs or expenses of and incidental to the application must be
borne by that person or by any officer or employee of that person who
is responsible for the failure.

 (9) Where a notice under subsection (1) is issued in connection with
investigations into a suspected offence under this Act, the Agency
through an authorised officer may, at any time after the expiry of the
period specified in the notice, enter any building or place where the
Agency has reason to believe that any document or information, in
respect of which it has given the notice, may be found, and seize or
take extracts from or copies of any such document or information.

 (10) The Agency is entitled without payment to keep any document
or information, or any copy or extract thereof, provided to it under
subsection (1) or obtained under subsection (9).

(11) In this section —

“body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership
   registered under the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                 Transboundary Haze

19               Pollution Act 2014                           2020 Ed.

    “officer” —

    (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
         partner, member of the committee of management,
         chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the body corporate and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity; or

    (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
         than a partnership), means the president, the
         secretary, or any member of the committee of the
         unincorporated association, or any person holding a
         position analogous to that of president, secretary or
         member of a committee and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

Power to examine and secure attendance, etc.

 11.—(1) For the purpose of investigating any offence under
section 5, the Director-General or an authorised officer may do all
or any of the following:

       (a) examine orally any person who appears to be acquainted
            with matters related to the offence;

       (b) require by written notice the attendance before himself or
            herself of any person in Singapore who, from information
            given or otherwise, appears to be acquainted with matters
            related to the offence;

       (c) require any person to provide any information or produce
            any book or document, or any copy thereof, in that person’s
            possession and, without payment, inspect, keep, copy or
            take extracts from that book, document or copy.

 (2) Any person examined under this section is bound to state truly
what the person knows of the matters related to the offence, whether
or not the provision of information or production of any book or
document or other disclosure might incriminate the person.

 (3) A statement made by any person examined under this section
must —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                    Transboundary Haze

2020 Ed.            Pollution Act 2014                              20

(a) be in writing;

(b) be read over to the person;

          (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted
              for the person in a language that the person understands;
              and

(d) after correction, if necessary, be signed by the person.

 (4) If any person fails to attend as required by a notice under
subsection (1)(b), the Director-General or authorised officer may
report such failure to a Magistrate, who may then issue a warrant to
secure that person’s attendance as required by the notice.

Public servants

 12. The Director-General and all authorised officers, when
performing or exercising any function, duty or power under this
Act, are deemed to be public servants for the purposes of the Penal
Code 1871.

Protection from personal liability

 13. No liability shall be incurred by the Director-General, any
authorised officer, any member, officer or employee of the Agency, or
any other person acting under the direction of the Agency, for
anything which is done or purported to be done in good faith and with
reasonable care in —

       (a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
            Act; or

       (b) the performance or purported performance of any function
            or duty under this Act.

Penalty for obstructing Director-General or authorised officer
in his or her duty

 14. Any person who at any time obstructs, hinders or delays the
Director-General or any authorised officer in the performance or
execution of his or her duty or of anything which the
Director-General or authorised officer is empowered or required to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Transboundary Haze

21  Pollution Act 2014                                        2020 Ed.

do by or under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction —

    (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
         term not exceeding 3 months or to both; and

    (b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
         not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 3 months or to both.

                                    PART 4

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Service of documents, etc.

 15.—(1) Subject to subsection (3) and section 10(3), any notice,
order or other document required or authorised to be given or served
under this Act may be served —

       (a) in the case of an individual —

               (i) by delivering it to the individual personally;

              (ii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently resident
                   at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post to, the
                   usual or last known address of the place of residence
                   of the individual;

             (iii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently
                   employed at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
                   post to, the usual or last known address of the place
                   of business of the individual;

             (iv) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous
                   place at the usual or last known address of the place
                   of residence or business of the individual; or

              (v) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
                   usual or last known address of the place of residence
                   or business of the individual, or the last fax number
                   given to the Agency or an authorised officer by the
                   individual as the fax number for the service of
                   documents on the individual;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Transboundary Haze

2020 Ed.  Pollution Act 2014                                        22

(b) in the case of a partnership other than a limited liability
     partnership —

          (i) by delivering it to any one of the partners or the
              secretary or other similar officer of the partnership;

          (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
               post to, the principal or last known place of business
               of the partnership in Singapore; or

          (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
                principal or last known place of business of the
                partnership in Singapore; and

          (c) in the case of any limited liability partnership or any other
              body corporate —

          (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other similar
              officer of the body corporate or, in the case of a
              limited liability partnership, the manager of the
              limited liability partnership;

          (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
               post to, the registered office or principal office of the
               limited liability partnership or body corporate in
               Singapore; or

          (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
                registered office or principal office of the limited
                liability partnership or body corporate in Singapore.

 (2) Where any notice or other document to be served by the
Agency, the Director-General or an authorised officer is —

(a) sent by fax to the fax number used at the last known place
     of residence or business or registered office or principal
     office in accordance with subsection (1), it is deemed to
     have been duly served on the person to whom it is
     addressed on the day of transmission, subject to receipt on
     the sending fax machine of a notification (by electronic or
     other means) of a successful transmission to the place of
     residence or business or registered office or principal
     office, as the case may be; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Transboundary Haze

23  Pollution Act 2014                                        2020 Ed.

    (b) sent by prepaid registered post, it is deemed to have been
         duly served on the person to whom it is addressed 2 days
         after the day the notice or document was posted, whether or
         not it is returned undelivered.

 (3) This section does not apply to notices, summonses and other
documents to be served in proceedings in court.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 16.—(1) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a
body corporate, an unincorporated association or a partnership, any
person who at the time of the commission of the offence was an
officer of the body corporate or unincorporated association, or a
partner of a partnership, purporting to act in such capacity shall be
guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly unless the person proves, on a balance of
probabilities —

       (a) that the offence was committed without the person’s
            consent, connivance or privity; and

       (b) that the person exercised all such diligence to prevent the
            commission of the offence as the person ought to have
            exercised, having regard to the nature of the person’s
            functions in that capacity and to all the circumstances.

 (2) In this section, “body corporate”, “officer” and “partner” have
the meanings given by section 10(11).

Notice to attend court

 17.—(1) Where it appears to the Director-General or any authorised
officer that any person has committed an offence under this Act, the
Director-General or authorised officer may serve upon the person a
notice in such form as may be prescribed requiring the person to
attend at the court, at the hour and on the date specified in the notice.

 (2) The Director-General or authorised officer must prepare a
duplicate of the notice mentioned in subsection (1) and, if so required
by a court, produce the duplicate of the notice to the court.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Transboundary Haze

2020 Ed.  Pollution Act 2014                                        24

 (3) On an accused person appearing before a court pursuant to the
notice, the court is to take cognizance of the offence alleged and is to
proceed as though the person were produced before the court under
section 153 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

 (4) If a person, upon whom such a notice has been served, fails to
appear before a court in accordance with the notice, the court must
then issue a warrant for the arrest of that person.

 (5) Upon a person arrested pursuant to a warrant issued under
subsection (4) being produced before a court, the court is to proceed
as though the person were produced under section 153 of the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Jurisdiction of court

 18. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment in
respect of the offence.

Composition of offences

 19.—(1) The Director-General may compound any offence under
this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting
from a person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence
a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

Notices may be given by authorised officer

 20.—(1) All notices which the Director-General is empowered to
give by or under this Act may, subject to the direction of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Transboundary Haze

25  Pollution Act 2014                                        2020 Ed.

Director-General, be given by any authorised officer on behalf of the
Director-General.

 (2) Where any notice requires authentication, the signature or an
official facsimile of the signature of the Director-General or any
authorised officer affixed to the notice is sufficient authentication.

Inaccuracies in documents

 21.—(1) No misnomer or inaccurate description of any person,
premises, building, holding, street or place named or described in any
document prepared, issued or served under, by virtue of or for the
purposes of this Act in any way affects the operation of this Act as
respects that person or place if that person or place is so designated in
the document as to be identifiable.

 (2) No proceedings taken under or by virtue of this Act are invalid
for want of form.

Evidence

 22. The contents of any document prepared, issued or served by the
Agency, the Director-General or an authorised officer under or for the
purposes of this Act are, until the contrary is proved, presumed to be
correct.

Forms

 23. The Director-General may design and utilise such forms as he
or she may think fit for any of the purposes of this Act, and may
require any person to complete any of the forms for any such purpose.

Regulations

 24.—(1) The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations —

       (a) for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Act;
            and

       (b) for the prescribing of anything that is required or permitted
            to be prescribed under this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Transboundary Haze

2020 Ed.  Pollution Act 2014                                        26

 (2) The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, in making
any regulations, provide —

(a) that any contravention of, or failure or neglect to comply
     with any regulations shall be an offence; and

(b) for a penalty not exceeding a fine of $10,000 for each
     offence and, in the case of a continuing offence, a further
     penalty not exceeding a fine of 10% of the maximum fine
     prescribed for that offence for every day or part of a day
     during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) All such regulations must be presented to Parliament as soon as
possible after publication in the Gazette.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                 LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

                TRANSBOUNDARY HAZE
                  POLLUTION ACT 2014

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 24 of 2014 — Transboundary Haze Pollution Act 2014

Bill            : 18/2014

First Reading   : 7 July 2014

Second Reading  : 4 August 2014

Third Reading   : 5 August 2014

Commencement    : 25 September 2014

2. 2020 Revised Edition — Transboundary HazePollution Act 2014

Operation       : 31 December 2021

3. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill            : 24/2022

First Reading   : 12 September 2022

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 2022

Commencement    : 1 November 2022

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
.                                 ii
G.N.
G.N. Sp.                 Abbreviations
L.A.
L.N.          (updated on 29 August 2022)
M.            Gazette Notification
              Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
Parl.         Legislative Assembly
S             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
S.I.          Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S (N.S.)      Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.S.G.G.      Malaysia)
S.S.G.G. (E)  Parliament
              Subsidiary Legislation
              Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
