THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
              ANIMALS AND BIRDS ACT 1965

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
                                                                  2020 Ed.

         Animals and Birds Act 1965

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Appointment of Director‑General and authorised officers
     2.  Designation of authorised examiners
     3.  Public servants
     4.  Identification card to be produced
     5.
     6.

                                        PART 2

           IMPORT, TRANSHIPMENT, EXPORT OF ANIMALS
                     AND BIRDS AND POSSESSION OF
                            NOXIOUS INSECTS, ETC.

                                         Import

 7. Power to make orders with regard to import, etc.
 8. No person to import or tranship any animal, bird or veterinary

         biologics without licence
 9. Import or possession of noxious insects, pests or genetically

         modified organisms, etc.
10. Examination of imported animals and birds
11. Arrival of animal or bird to be reported
12. Power to deal with diseased animals and birds being imported

         into Singapore
13. Animals and birds on board ship
14. Permission to land carcases
15. Destruction or disinfection of certain articles

                                         Export
16. No person to export any animal or bird without licence
17. Examination and treatment of animals and birds before export
18. Certificate of freedom from disease

                                                      1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                                  2

          PART 3

          PREVENTION OF SPREAD OF DISEASE

          General

Section   Examination of animal or bird suspected of disease
          Isolation or destruction of diseased animal or bird
   19.    Compensation for any animal or bird destroyed
   20.    Post‑mortem examination
   21.    Animal or bird exposed to infection
   22.    Disinfection of building
   23.    Destruction of building
   24.    Disinfection or destruction of articles
   25.    Disinfection of person and clothing
   26.    Disinfection of vehicles
   27.    Disposal of infected animal, bird or carcase
   28.    Owner of diseased or dead animal or bird to report
   29.
   30.

                           Special provisions relating to
                 animals (other than dogs and cats) and birds

31. Application
32. Disposal of dead animal or bird
33. Moving or disposal of diseased or suspected animal or bird
34. Removal of articles from infected premises
35. Infected areas
36. Special permission

                  Special provisions in connection with rabies

37. Rabies‑infected areas
38. Destruction or detention of animal suspected to be infected with

         rabies
39. Detention of any dog that has bitten a person
40. Anti‑rabies vaccination of dogs

                                        PART 4

                  ANIMAL WELFARE AND PREVENTION
                          OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

41. Interpretation of this Part
41A. Codes of animal welfare

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
3        Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

Section  Use of codes of animal welfare in proceedings
   41B.  Duty of care of animal owners
   41C.  Cruelty to animals
   42.   Prescribed activities and services to be performed by qualified
   43.   individuals
         Power to issue directions
   43A.  Disqualification orders
   43B.  Orders by Magistrate when an offence has been committed
   44.   Power to order destruction of animals
   45.   No compensation for destruction of an animal incurably
   46.   diseased or injured or destroyed at request of professed owner
         Award to informer
   47.   Animals and birds not to be kept in captivity for sale, export or
   48.   exhibition without licence

                                           PART 5
                              CONTROL OF LIVESTOCK
   49. Movement or slaughter of animals and birds may be prohibited

                                           PART 6

                              ENFORCEMENT POWERS

   50. Powers of search, etc.
   51. Powers of seizure
   52. Powers of arrest
   52A. Powers of investigation

                                           PART 7

                     LICENSING OF VETERINARY CENTRE,
                   VETERINARY BIOLOGICS AND KEEPING,

                     BREEDING, ETC., OF ANIMAL OR BIRD

   53. Licence to treat, vaccinate and inoculate animal or bird
   54. Veterinary centres to be licensed
   55. Licence to possess or inoculate veterinary biologics
   56. Brands or other identification marks may be applied to animals

            and birds

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                                      4

          PART 8

          QUARANTINE

Section   Quarantine stations
   57.    Prohibition against use of premises as unauthorised quarantine
   58.    stations
          Regulation and control of keeping, breeding or feeding of
   59.    animals and birds

          PART 9

          OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

60.       Obstructing officers in execution of their duties
60A.      Giving false information
61.       Altering licences
62.       Suspension and revocation of licences and permits
63.       Penalties for offences for which no expressed penalty is
          provided
64.       Forfeiture
65.       Presumptions
66.       Offences committed by bodies corporate and by agents and
          servants
67.       Jurisdiction of court
68.       Evidence
69.       Composition of offences

                                       PART 10

                       MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

70. Fees, etc., payable to Board
71. Expenses
72. Action to be at risk and expense of owner
73. Powers of Director‑General and authorised officer in cases of

         non‑compliance with Act or any direction or order
74. Power to require production of documents, etc.
75. Form and authentication of notices, orders and other documents
76. Inaccuracies in documents
77. Service of documents
78. Protection from liability
79. Exemption
80. Rules

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
5  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

An Act for preventing the introduction into, and the spreading within,
  Singapore of diseases of animals, birds or fish; for the control of the
  movement of animals, birds or fish into, within and from
  Singapore; for the prevention of cruelty to animals, birds or fish;
  for measures pertaining to the general welfare and improvement of
  animals, birds or fish in Singapore and for purposes incidental
  thereto.

   [22 October 1965: Except section 71 ;
                20 May 1966: Section 71 ]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Animals and Birds Act 1965.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “aircraft” includes any kind of craft which may be used for the
         conveyance of animals or birds by air;

      “animal” means any mammal (other than man) or fish and
         includes any other living creature that is prescribed as an
         animal for the purposes of this Act or that falls within a class
         of animals that is prescribed for those purposes;

      “animal quarantine station” means a quarantine station
         established under section 57;

      “authorised examiner” means any authorised officer and
         includes any person who has been designated as an
         authorised examiner by the Director‑General under section 4;

      “authorised officer” means any person appointed by the
         Director‑General to be an authorised officer under
         section 3(2);

      “bird” includes domestic fowls, ducks, geese, turkeys, guinea
         fowls and pigeons of any age or sex and the eggs thereof;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               6

“Board” means the National Parks Board established by the
   repealed National Parks Act (Cap. 198A, 1991 Revised
   Edition) as in force before 1 July 1996 and continued by
   section 3 of the National Parks Board Act 1996;

“building” includes any house, hut, shed, stable or enclosure,
   whether roofed or not, used for sheltering or confining any
   animal or bird and any pen, cage, wall, gate, pillar, post,
   paling, frame, boarding, fence, platform, roadway, path,
   steps, staging, slip, wharf, dock, piles, jetty, landing stage or
   bridge, or any structure connected with the foregoing;

“carcase” means the dead body of an animal or bird and includes
   any part thereof and the meat, bones (whether whole, broken
   or ground), offal, hide, skin, wool, hair, feathers, hoof, horns
   or other part of an animal or bird, separately or otherwise, or
   any portion thereof;

“cat” means a domesticated cat of any breed or sex;

“contact” means any animal or bird which has by contact, direct
   or indirect, with a diseased animal or bird been exposed to the
   risk of contracting a disease;

“Director‑General” means the Director‑General, Animal Health
   and Welfare appointed under section 3(1);

“disease” means any disease that is infectious or contagious
   among animals or birds and includes any other disease which
   the Minister may, from time to time, by notification in the
   Gazette, declare to be a disease for the purposes of this Act;

“dog” means a domesticated dog of any breed or sex;

“examine”, in relation to any animal or bird or the carcase
   thereof, means to carry out in respect of such animal, bird or
   carcase, such manner of inspection, examination and test as
   may be necessary for the purposes of determining whether
   the animal, bird or carcase thereof is infected with any
   disease;

“fish” includes any of the varieties of marine, brackish water or
   fresh water fishes, crustacea, aquatic mollusca, turtles,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
7  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

   marine sponges, trepang and any other form of aquatic life
   and the young and eggs thereof;

   “fodder” means any substance used for food of animals or birds;

   “genetically modified organism” means any organism (other
      than a human being or a plant), whether living or dead, or
      parts of any such organism, containing genetic material or
      protein or both which have been derived or modified as a
      result of manipulation or experimentation of genetic material,
      or any means other than by natural process;

   “goods in transit” means goods that are brought into Singapore
      solely for the purpose of taking them out of Singapore and
      that remain at all times on the vehicle, aircraft or ship that
      brought them into Singapore;

   “import” includes the import into Singapore of goods in transit
      and goods which are to be transhipped;

   “infected” means infected with any disease;

   “licence” means any licence issued by the Director‑General;

   “litter” means any substance used for bedding or otherwise for
      or about animals or birds;

   “master” means the captain of any ship or aircraft and includes
      any person for the time being in charge of any ship (other than
      a pilot) or aircraft;

   “officer of customs” has the meaning given by the Customs
      Act 1960;

   “owner” includes any person for the time being in charge of any
      animal or bird and any person for the time being in
      occupation of any building;

   “permit” means a permit issued by the Director‑General;

   “port” has the meaning given by the Maritime and Port
      Authority of Singapore Act 1996;

   “public place” means any place or premises to which at the
      material time the public or any section of the public has

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               8

          access, on payment or otherwise, as of right or by virtue of
          express or implied permission;

“quarantine” means the compulsory detention in isolation of any
   animal, bird or thing;

“quarantine station” means any building or place where
   quarantine is carried out, and includes an examination
   station or hulk;

“ship” includes every description of vessel or craft, however
   propelled, which may be used in the water;

“tranship” means to remove any goods imported into Singapore
   from the vehicle, aircraft or ship in which they were imported
   and either return them to the same vehicle, aircraft or ship or
   transfer them to another vehicle, aircraft or ship before being
   exported, whether such goods are to be transferred directly
   between such vehicles, aircraft or ships or whether they are to
   be landed in Singapore after their import and kept at any
   place pending export;

“veterinary biologics” means any viruses, serums, toxins, and
   analogous products of natural or synthetic origin, including
   genetically modified organisms, diagnostics, antitoxins,
   vaccines, live micro‑organisms, killed micro‑organisms,
   and the antigenic or immunising component of
   micro‑organisms intended for use in the diagnosis,
   treatment, or prevention of diseases of animals and birds,
   or for purposes of research in animals or birds;

“veterinary centre” means any premises used for the purpose of
   providing any of the following services to members of the
   public:

          (a) the diagnosis of disease in, and injuries to, animals or
               birds, including tests performed for diagnostic
               purposes;

          (b) the treatment, vaccination or inoculation of animals
               or birds.

                                                                                     [46/2014; 10/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
9  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

 (2) Nothing in this Act affects a police officer’s powers or duties
under the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

Appointment of Director‑General and authorised officers

 3.—(1) The Board is responsible for the administration of this Act,
and to that end, the Board must appoint an officer of the Board to be
the Director‑General, Animal Health and Welfare.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (2) The Director‑General may, subject to the directions of the
Board, appoint any of the following persons to be an authorised
officer for the purpose of assisting the Director‑General in
administering and carrying out the provisions of this Act or any
other written law which confers powers on the Director‑General:

       (a) an employee of the Board;

       (b) an employee of another statutory authority;

       (c) a public officer;

       (d) an auxiliary police officer appointed under the Police
            Force Act 2004.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (3) The Director‑General may delegate the exercise of all or any of
the powers conferred or duties imposed upon the Director‑General by
any provision of this Act or any other written law (except the power
of delegation conferred by this subsection) to an authorised officer;
and any reference in the provision of this Act or other written law to
the Director‑General includes a reference to such an authorised
officer.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (4) Any delegation under subsection (3) may be general or in a
particular case and may be subject to such conditions or limitations as
set out in this Act or as the Board may specify.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (5) The Director‑General may, for any reason that appears to him or
her to be sufficient, at any time revoke a person’s appointment as an
authorised officer.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               10

 (6) A person mentioned in subsection (2)(d) who is appointed as an
authorised officer does not, by virtue only of the appointment,
become an employee or agent of the Board.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

Designation of authorised examiners

 4. The Director‑General may, subject to any general or special
directions of the Board, in writing designate any suitably qualified
person as an authorised examiner to carry out, at any appointed place,
any examination, treatment or certification and any other similar,
related or ancillary functions which are required by this Act to be
carried out.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

Public servants

 5. All authorised officers are deemed to be public servants for the
purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

Identification card to be produced

 6.—(1) Every authorised officer, officer of customs or police
officer when exercising any powers under this Act must —

       (a) if not in uniform, declare his or her office; and

       (b) on demand, produce to any person affected by the exercise
            of those powers such identification card as the
            Director‑General, the Director‑General of Customs or the
            Commissioner of Police respectively may direct to be
            carried by the authorised officers, officers of customs or
            police officers.

                                                                                                             [4/2003]

 (2) It is not an offence for any person to refuse to comply with any
request, demand or order made or given by any authorised officer,
officer of customs or police officer not in uniform, who fails to
declare his or her office and refuses to produce his or her
identification card on demand being made by that person.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
11  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

    PART 2

    IMPORT, TRANSHIPMENT, EXPORT OF ANIMALS
              AND BIRDS AND POSSESSION OF
                    NOXIOUS INSECTS, ETC.

    Import

Power to make orders with regard to import, etc.

7.—(1) The Minister may make orders —

    (a) specifying the countries or the parts of any country from
         which animals and birds, or any specified kinds of animals
         or birds, may be imported or transhipped either with or
         without restriction; or

    (b) prohibiting, either absolutely or conditionally, the import
         and transhipment from any specified country or any
         specified part of a country of any carcase, semen, fodder,
         litter, dung or any product of animals or birds or any article
         or substance that is likely to convey or spread any disease.

 (2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of any order made
under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

No person to import or tranship any animal, bird or veterinary
biologics without licence

 8.—(1) Except as provided in any order made under section 7(1), a
person must not import or tranship any animal, bird or veterinary
biologics, except in accordance with a licence issued in that behalf by
the Director‑General and in accordance with the conditions (if any) of
that licence and such other conditions as may be prescribed.

 (2) A licence to import or tranship any animal, bird or veterinary
biologics under this Act may be obtained on an application made in
the prescribed form to the Director‑General and upon the payment of
such fees as may be prescribed.

 (2A) In deciding whether to grant a licence for the import of any
animal or bird intended for human consumption or production of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               12

primary produce, the Director‑General may make inquiries and
investigations that are reasonable and appropriate in the
circumstances so as to be satisfied as to the experience and
resources of the applicant in providing a secure and reliable supply
in Singapore of the animals or birds of acceptable quality for human
consumption or production of primary produce, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (2B) Without limiting subsection (2A), the inquiries and
investigations may include whether an applicant for a licence for
the import of any animal or bird intended for human consumption or
production of primary produce has a procurement plan stating —

(a) the risks (including assessments of such risks) of any
     disruption occurring to the import of the animal or bird
     from the markets from which the animal or bird is to be
     procured; and

(b) any plan of action (including preventive strategies) for the
     purpose of —

          (i) ensuring, so far as is reasonably practicable, that the
              applicant can still provide a secure and reliable
              supply in Singapore of the animal or bird of
              acceptable quality; or

              (ii) otherwise reducing or mitigating the effect of any
                   disruption to the supply of the animal or bird from
                   any such market from which the animal or bird is to
                   be procured.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (2C) The Director‑General may grant a licence subject to such
conditions as the Director‑General thinks fit, including but not
limited to the conditions necessary or related to ensuring a secure and
reliable supply in Singapore of any animals or birds intended for
human consumption or production of primary produce, as the case
may be.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (3) Any person importing or transhipping an animal, bird or
veterinary biologics in contravention of subsection (1) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
13  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Import or possession of noxious insects, pests or genetically
modified organisms, etc.

 9.—(1) A person must not, without the prior written consent of the
Director‑General, knowingly import into Singapore or have in the
person’s possession any living noxious insect, or any living pest, or
any living disease germ or virus or any bacterial culture, of a nature
harmful or dangerous to animals or birds, or any genetically modified
organism.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Examination of imported animals and birds

 10.—(1) Any person who has imported any animal or bird must, if
so directed by the Director‑General or an authorised officer,
immediately upon the arrival of the animal or bird in Singapore, at
the person’s own expense arrange for the animal or bird to be
examined by an authorised examiner.

 (2) For the purpose of carrying out the examination of any animal or
bird under subsection (1), an authorised examiner may detain the
animal or bird at a quarantine station or such other place as may be
approved by the Director‑General or an authorised officer until the
completion of the examination.

 (3) If any animal or bird, upon being examined by an authorised
examiner under subsection (1), is certified by the authorised examiner
to be suffering from —

       (a) any disease or injury which, in the opinion of the
            authorised examiner, cannot be treated or relieved; or

       (b) any disease which is likely to spread unless the animal or
            bird is destroyed,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               14

the person who imported the animal or bird must, at the person’s own
expense, cause that animal or bird to be destroyed at once and the
carcase thereof to be disposed of in such manner as may be specified
by the Director‑General or an authorised officer.

 (4) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (1) or (3) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Arrival of animal or bird to be reported

 11.—(1) The master of any ship or aircraft and the guard of any
train on which there is any animal or bird, whether that animal or bird
is intended to be landed in Singapore or not, must immediately on the
first arrival of the ship, aircraft or train at a port, airfield or station in
Singapore report the fact to a port officer or the officer in charge of
the airfield or the station master (as the case may be) who must
without delay inform an authorised officer.

 (2) An authorised officer may —

       (a) board any ship, aircraft or train for the purpose of
            examining any animal or bird therein; or

       (b) direct the master of the ship or aircraft or the guard of the
            train to arrange, at his or her own expense, for the animal or
            bird to be examined by an authorised examiner.

 (3) Despite the fact that —

       (a) a licence has been issued for the import or transhipment of
            an animal or bird under section 8; or

       (b) any animal or bird comes from a country or part of a
            country which has been specified in an order made under
            section 7(1)(a),

the port officer or officer in charge of an airfield or station master
must not permit that animal or bird to be landed from the ship or
removed from the aircraft or the train (as the case may be) until he or
she has personally satisfied himself or herself that an authorised
officer has granted a permit for the landing or removal of that animal
or bird from the ship, aircraft or train.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
15  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

(4) Any person who —

    (a) fails to make a report as is required under subsection (1);

    (b) fails to comply with any direction given to the person by an
         authorised officer under subsection (2); or

    (c) permits an animal or bird to be landed or removed from any
        ship, aircraft or train in contravention of subsection (3),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Power to deal with diseased animals and birds being imported
into Singapore

 12.—(1) Where the Director‑General or an authorised officer has
reasonable grounds for suspecting that there is on board any vehicle,
aircraft or ship that has entered or that is about to enter Singapore any
animal or bird that is infected with any disease, the Director‑General
or authorised officer may direct the person who is or who appears to
be in command or charge of the vehicle, aircraft or ship to take all or
any of the following measures at the person’s own expense:

       (a) ensure that any animal or bird on board the vehicle, aircraft
            or ship is not (as the case requires) removed from the
            vehicle, aircraft or ship or brought into Singapore;

       (b) arrange for any animal or bird on board the vehicle, aircraft
            or ship to be examined by an authorised examiner;

       (c) cause any animal or bird on board the vehicle, aircraft or
            ship which is infected or reasonably suspected to be
            infected with any disease and any other animal or bird on
            board the vehicle, aircraft or ship which has or may have
            come into contact with such animal or bird to be —

               (i) destroyed and disposed of in such manner as the
                   Director‑General or authorised officer may specify;

              (ii) removed from Singapore;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               16

          (iii) treated in such manner as may be specified in the
                direction or by the authorised examiner who
                examined the animal or bird; or

          (iv) quarantined in such manner, at such place and for
               such period as the Director‑General or authorised
               officer may specify;

(d) ensure that the vehicle, aircraft or ship does not enter
     Singapore or remove the vehicle, aircraft or ship from
     Singapore (as the case requires), if the Director‑General is
     satisfied that such measure is necessary for the prevention
     of the introduction or spread of any disease in Singapore.

 (2) No compensation is payable in respect of any animal or bird
which is required to be destroyed under subsection (1)(c)(i).

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with any direction given to the
person by the Director‑General or an authorised officer under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Animals and birds on board ship

 13.—(1) Any animal or bird imported or transhipped by sea must,
unless an authorised officer has authorised its landing, at all times
while on board the ship in any port, be confined in an enclosed part of
the ship or in a cage or kennel.

 (2) If any animal or bird dies or is lost from a ship while in the port,
the master of the ship must immediately notify an authorised officer
of the death or loss.

 (3) The master of any ship, in any case —

       (a) in which any animal or bird imported or transhipped by sea
            in that ship has, in contravention of subsection (1), not
            been confined while on board the ship in the port; or

       (b) where the master fails without reasonable cause to notify
            the death or loss of any animal or bird while the ship is in
            the port,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
17  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Permission to land carcases

 14.—(1) A person must not land from any ship or remove from any
aircraft, train or vehicle the carcase of any animal or bird without the
written permission of an authorised officer who may give written
directions as to the manner of its disposal.

 (2) Any person —

       (a) landing or removing the carcase of an animal or bird in
            contravention of subsection (1); or

       (b) who fails to comply with the written directions of an
            authorised officer given under subsection (1),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Destruction or disinfection of certain articles

 15.—(1) Where an authorised officer is of the opinion that any
bedding, litter, fodder or other material imported by land, sea or air
may convey or spread any animal disease, he or she may —

       (a) seize and detain; and

       (b) order the destruction or disinfection of,

that bedding, litter, fodder or other material.

 (2) No compensation is payable in respect of any bedding, litter,
fodder or other material that is destroyed under subsection (1).

                                     Export
No person to export any animal or bird without licence

 16.—(1) A person must not export any animal or bird or the carcase
of any animal or bird except in accordance with —

       (a) a licence in that behalf issued by the Director‑General;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               18

(b) the conditions of that licence, if any; and

          (c) such other conditions as may be prescribed.

 (2) A licence to export any animal or bird or the carcase of any
animal or bird may be issued upon an application made in the
prescribed form to the Director‑General and upon the payment of
such fees as may be prescribed.

 (3) Any person exporting any animal or bird or the carcase of any
animal or bird in contravention of subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Examination and treatment of animals and birds before export

 17.—(1) Any person who intends to export any animal or bird from
Singapore must, if so directed by the Director‑General or an
authorised officer, arrange, at the person’s own expense, for the
animal or bird to be examined and, if necessary, treated by an
authorised examiner before exporting the animal or bird.

 (2) For the purpose of carrying out the examination or treatment of
any animal or bird under subsection (1), an authorised examiner may
detain the animal or bird at a quarantine station or such other place as
may be approved by the Director‑General or an authorised officer
until the completion of the examination or treatment.

 (3) If any animal or bird, upon being examined by an authorised
examiner under subsection (1), is certified by the authorised examiner
to be infected with any disease —

       (a) the person intending to export the animal or bird must not
            export the animal or bird without the prior approval of the
            Director‑General or an authorised officer; and

       (b) the Director‑General or an authorised officer may direct
            the person intending to export the animal or bird to treat or
            destroy the animal or bird at the person’s own expense in
            such manner as may be specified by the Director‑General
            or authorised officer.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
19  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

 (4) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (1) or (3)(a) or
with any direction given to the person by the Director‑General or an
authorised officer under subsection (3)(b) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Certificate of freedom from disease

 18.—(1) Any person intending to export any animal or bird or the
carcase thereof or any product derived from such animal, bird or
carcase may apply to an authorised examiner —

       (a) for a certificate certifying that Singapore is free from such
            disease as may be specified in the certificate; or

       (b) for the animal, bird, carcase or product (as the case may be)
            to be examined and thereafter certified as to whether it is
            free from any disease or other condition.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must be accompanied by
the prescribed fee.

                                    PART 3

              PREVENTION OF SPREAD OF DISEASE

                                    General

Examination of animal or bird suspected of disease

 19.—(1) If the Director‑General or an authorised officer has reason
to believe that any animal or bird may be infected with any disease, he
or she may subject that animal or bird and any article or substance
which has been in contact therewith to an examination.

 (2) For the purpose of this section —

       (a) the Director‑General or authorised officer may —

               (i) seize the animal or bird as well as the whole or any
                   sample of any article or substance which has been in
                   contact therewith and take them to the place of
                   examination; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               20

          (ii) in writing direct the owner or person in charge of the
               animal or bird to deliver the animal or bird as well as
               the whole or any sample of any article or substance
               which has been in contact therewith to an authorised
               examiner at a specified place and time; and

(b) the authorised examiner carrying out the examination may
     take any substance from the animal or bird or destroy the
     animal or bird and conduct a post‑mortem examination on
     its carcase, if that is the appropriate method by which the
     authorised examiner may, in accordance with accepted
     veterinary practice, determine whether the animal or bird
     has been infected with any particular disease.

 (3) No compensation is payable in respect of any animal or bird
which has been destroyed under subsection (2)(b).

(4) Any person who —

(a) without lawful excuse, fails to comply with any written
     direction given to the person under subsection (2)(a)(ii); or

(b) without the permission of the Director‑General or an
     authorised officer, removes any animal or bird from the
     place to which it has been delivered under
     subsection (2)(a)(ii),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Isolation or destruction of diseased animal or bird

 20.—(1) The Director‑General or an authorised officer may require
the immediate isolation or destruction of any animal or bird if —

       (a) the animal or bird is certified by an authorised examiner,
            upon any examination carried out under section 19, to be
            infected with disease;

       (b) the Director‑General or authorised officer has other
            reasonable cause for believing that the animal or bird is
            infected with disease; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
21  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

    (c) the Director‑General or authorised officer has reasonable
        cause for believing that the animal or bird —

    (i) may have been in contact with another animal or bird
        which is infected with disease;

    (ii) may have been exposed to disease; or

    (iii) may perpetuate any disease.

 (2) Any person who, without lawful excuse, refuses or fails to
isolate or destroy any animal or bird when required to do so by the
Director‑General or an authorised officer under subsection (1) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Compensation for any animal or bird destroyed

 21.—(1) No compensation is payable in respect of any animal or
bird which has been destroyed under section 20.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), the Minister may authorise the payment
of such sum as the Minister may determine as compensation in
respect of any animal or bird which has been destroyed.

Post‑mortem examination

 22.—(1) The Director‑General or an authorised officer may cause
the carcase of any animal or bird to be subject to a post‑mortem
examination.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Director‑General or
authorised officer may give written directions —

       (a) for the carcase, if already buried, to be exhumed for the
            purpose of a post‑mortem examination; and

       (b) for the carcase to be delivered to an authorised examiner at
            a specified place and time.

 (3) Any person who —

       (a) without lawful excuse, fails to comply with any written
            direction given to the person under subsection (2); or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               22

(b) without the permission of the Director‑General or an
     authorised officer, removes the carcase from the place to
     which it has been delivered under subsection (2)(b),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Animal or bird exposed to infection

 23.—(1) If an authorised officer considers that any animal or bird
has been exposed to infection to any disease, he or she may give
written directions for that animal or bird to be subjected to such
treatment as he or she may consider necessary, including vaccine or
serum therapy or a combination of such therapy.

 (2) Any person who, without lawful excuse, fails to comply with
any written direction given to the person under subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Disinfection of building

 24.—(1) An authorised officer may give written directions for —

       (a) the disinfection in such manner as he or she may determine
            of any building in which an infected animal or bird has
            been found or kept;

       (b) prohibiting the use of any such building until the building
            has been disinfected in accordance with such directions as
            may have been given under paragraph (a).

 (2) Any person who, without lawful excuse, fails to comply with
any written direction given to the person under subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
23  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

Destruction of building

 25.—(1) If an authorised officer is of the opinion that any building
which has been occupied by an infected animal cannot be effectively
disinfected, he or she may give written directions, with the approval
of the Minister, to the owner or occupier thereof to destroy the
building and to burn the materials thereof within such time as may be
specified in the direction.

 (2) If a written direction given under subsection (1) is not complied
with within the time specified in the direction, the authorised officer
may cause the building and the materials thereof to be destroyed.

 (3) No compensation is payable in respect of any building which
has been destroyed by the owner or occupier thereof in compliance
with written directions or by an authorised officer under
subsection (1) or (2), as the case may be.

 (4) Despite subsection (3), the Minister may authorise the payment
of such sum as the Minister may determine as compensation in
respect of any building mentioned in subsection (3).

 (5) Any person who, without lawful excuse, fails to comply with
any written direction given to the person under subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Disinfection or destruction of articles

 26.—(1) An authorised officer may give written directions for the
disinfection or destruction of any bedding, clothing, harness, fitting,
buckets, pails or utensils whatsoever used in connection with any
infected animal or bird.

 (2) No compensation is payable in respect of any bedding, clothing,
harness, fitting, buckets, pails or utensils destroyed under
subsection (1).

 (3) Any person who, without lawful excuse, fails to comply with
any written direction given to the person under subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               24

exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Disinfection of person and clothing

 27.—(1) An authorised officer may require the disinfection of the
body and clothing of any person who has been in contact with or in
charge of or attended upon any animal or bird infected with or in the
opinion of the authorised officer infected with disease.

 (2) Any person who, without lawful excuse, fails to comply with
any requirement under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Disinfection of vehicles

 28.—(1) An authorised officer may require the disinfection of any
vehicle or conveyance —

       (a) entering or leaving an area declared to be an infected area,
            under section 35; or

       (b) which has been used in the transport of any animal or bird
            infected with or in the opinion of the authorised officer
            infected with disease.

 (2) Any person who, without lawful excuse, fails to comply with
any requirement under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Disposal of infected animal, bird or carcase

 29.—(1) A person must not knowingly cast or cause or permit to be
cast into any drain, ditch, water channel, street or open space, or
otherwise expose —

       (a) any animal or bird or the carcase of any animal or bird
            which is or has been infected with disease; or

       (b) any fodder, litter, dung or thing which has been used in
            connection with any infected animal or bird.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
25  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

 (2) Any person who acts in contravention of subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Owner of diseased or dead animal or bird to report

 30.—(1) Every owner or person in charge of any animal or bird
infected with or reasonably suspected to be infected with disease
must —

       (a) immediately make a report to an authorised officer or to the
            nearest police station; and

       (b) at once cause that animal or bird and all other animals or
            birds which have been in contact with it to be confined and
            isolated until the arrival of an authorised officer.

 (2) Every owner or person in charge of any animal or bird
reasonably suspected to have died of disease must immediately
report its death to an authorised officer or the nearest police station
and, in the case of an animal, the carcase must not be moved without
the written permission from the authorised officer.

 (3) It is not an offence to bury the carcase of the animal, if no
instructions have been received within 24 hours of making the report
referred to in subsection (2).

 (4) Where the officer in charge of a police station has
communicated the contents of a report by telephone to an
authorised officer, he or she must as soon as possible transmit the
report to the authorised officer.

 (5) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to make a
report as required under subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (6) Any person who, without reasonable excuse —

       (a) fails to cause any animal or bird to be confined and isolated
            as is required by subsection (1); or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               26

(b) permits the carcase of an animal or bird to be moved in
     contravention of subsection (2),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                       Special provisions relating to
             animals (other than dogs and cats) and birds

Application

 31. Sections 32 to 36 do not apply to dogs and cats.

Disposal of dead animal or bird

 32.—(1) The owner or person in charge of any animal or bird that
has died from disease or has been destroyed by order of an authorised
officer must burn or otherwise dispose of the carcase thereof in
accordance with the written directions of the authorised officer.

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with any written direction given to the person by an authorised officer
under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Moving or disposal of diseased or suspected animal or bird

 33.—(1) A person must not move or dispose of, whether by sale or
otherwise, any animal or bird diseased or reasonably suspected of
being diseased or of being a contact of any diseased animal or bird or
of the carcase of such an animal or bird, or of the milk, dung or blood
of such an animal, except with the written consent of an authorised
officer.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
27  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

Removal of articles from infected premises

 34.—(1) An authorised officer may give written directions
prohibiting the removal of milk, manure, fodder, litter or other
articles likely to carry or convey infection, from premises on which
there is or recently has been, any animal or bird infected with disease.

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with any written direction given to the person under subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Infected areas

 35.—(1) Whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that any
disease exists among any animals or birds in any part of Singapore,
the Minister may by order declare that part to be an infected area and
may in the order —

       (a) prohibit, either absolutely or conditionally, the removal of
            any animal or bird or any specified kind of animal or bird
            into or out of that area; and

       (b) restrict the movement of persons and vehicles, aircraft and
            ships into, within or out of that area.

 (2) When an area has been declared to be an infected area under
subsection (1), the Director‑General or an authorised officer may give
the owner or person in charge of any animal or bird in that area such
written directions as the Director‑General or authorised officer may
consider necessary to control and check the spread of the disease.

 (3) Directions issued under subsection (2) may —

       (a) regulate the tying‑up, isolation, segregation, movement or
            slaughter of animals or birds in the infected area; and

       (b) require the taking of any measure as may be specified by
            the Director‑General or authorised officer.

 (4) Any animal or bird allowed to stray within an infected area, in
contravention of any written direction given under subsection (2),
may —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               28

(a) be destroyed immediately by an authorised officer or any
     person acting under the authorised officer’s direction; or

(b) be seized and detained until its forfeiture has been declared
     under the provisions of this Act.

 (5) No compensation is payable in respect of any animal or bird so
destroyed or seized under subsection (4).

 (6) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with any order under subsection (1) or with any written direction
under subsection (2) given to the person shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Special permission

 36. An authorised officer may grant, subject to such conditions as
he or she may impose, written permission to the owner of any animal
or bird to remove it into or out of any infected area.

              Special provisions in connection with rabies

Rabies‑infected areas

 37.—(1) The Minister may at any time as a precaution against
rabies by order declare Singapore or any part thereof to be a
rabies‑infected area.

 (2) A person must not take any dog out of a rabies‑infected area or
out of Singapore when any part thereof is a rabies‑infected area,
except in accordance with a written permit issued by an authorised
officer.

 (3) The owner or person in charge of any dog within a
rabies‑infected area must cause the dog to be kept under effective
control —

       (a) by confining it within an enclosed area from which it
            would be impossible for the dog to escape;

       (b) by tying it up securely; or

       (c) by leading it with a chain or lead of strong cord or leather
            properly secured to a collar or harness worn by the dog.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
29  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

 (4) If an authorised officer is satisfied that any dog or class of dogs,
whether by reason of prophylactic treatment or otherwise, is immune
from infection by rabies, he or she may exempt that dog or class of
dogs from the requirements of subsection (3), subject to such
conditions as the authorised officer may impose.

 (5) Any dog found within a rabies‑infected area which is not under
effective control under subsection (3) may be destroyed by any
person authorised in writing in that behalf by an authorised officer.

(6) Any person authorised under subsection (5) —

    (a) may enter any land, building or premises for the purpose of
         carrying out the provisions of that subsection;

    (b) must not enter into any dwelling house for that purpose
         specified under that subsection, except during the day; and

    (c) must, if required, produce and show his or her written
        authority to the owner, occupier or person for the time
        being in charge of the land, building or premises.

 (7) Any person who acts in contravention of subsection (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (8) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Destruction or detention of animal suspected to be infected
with rabies

 38.—(1) Where an authorised officer reasonably suspects that any
animal may be infected with rabies or has been exposed to rabies
infection, he or she may either —

       (a) cause the animal to be destroyed immediately; or

       (b) give written directions to the owner or person in charge of
            the animal requiring that owner or person to take it

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               30

          immediately to any animal quarantine station for detention
          and observation.

 (2) If the owner or person in charge of the animal fails to comply
with the written directions given under subsection (1), the authorised
officer may either cause the animal to be destroyed immediately or
take possession of the animal and remove it to an animal quarantine
station.

 (3) The authorised officer may either destroy the animal in the
animal quarantine station or may detain it until he or she is satisfied
that it is free from disease.

 (4) The authorised officer may take possession of the body of any
animal that has died or has been destroyed and which is reasonably
suspected to have been infected with rabies and may dispose of it in
such manner as he or she may think fit.

 (5) No compensation is payable to any person in respect of the
destruction of any animal under subsection (1), (2) or (3).

 (6) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with any written direction given to the person under subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (7) In this section, “animal” means any four‑footed beast in
captivity or under control.

Detention of any dog that has bitten a person

 39.—(1) An authorised officer or police officer may give directions
requiring the owner or person in charge of any dog that has or is
reasonably believed to have bitten any person to produce the dog at
such place and time as the officer may determine.

 (2) If the owner or person in charge of the dog fails to comply with
the directions given to him or her under subsection (1), the authorised
officer or police officer may immediately take possession of the dog
and remove it to an animal quarantine station.

 (3) Any person who, without lawful excuse, fails to comply with
the directions given to the person under subsection (1) shall be guilty

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
31  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000.

Anti‑rabies vaccination of dogs

 40.—(1) The Minister may make an order requiring that all dogs
within Singapore or any part thereof specified in the order must be
submitted to anti‑rabies vaccination.

 (2) Where an order has been made under subsection (1) an
authorised officer may specify periods of time within which, and
the place at which, dogs or groups of dogs, must be produced for the
purpose of such vaccination.

 (3) All such arrangements for vaccination of dogs must be
published in such manner as the authorised officer may determine.

 (4) The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, require that
every dog which has been vaccinated in accordance with the order
must, after such date as may be specified in the notification, at all
times during the continuance in force of the order and within the area
to which the order applies, carry upon it a serially numbered badge,
mark, tag or other evidence of vaccination.

 (5) Any dog within the area after the date specified in the
notification made under subsection (4), whether the dog is at large
or not, which does not carry the proper evidence of vaccination may
be destroyed.

 (6) An authorised officer may authorise in writing any person to
destroy dogs to give effect to subsection (5).

 (7) Any person so authorised may enter any land, building or
premises for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
subsection (6).

 (8) The person so authorised must not enter into any dwelling for
that purpose, except during the hours of daylight and must, if
required, produce and show his or her written authority to the owner,
occupier or person for the time being in charge of the land, building or
premises.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               32

 (9) If any person in charge of a dog fails to comply with any order
or requirement under subsection (1) or (4), as the case may be, an
authorised officer may immediately destroy that dog.

 (10) Any owner or person in charge of a dog who, without
reasonable excuse, fails to comply with an order made under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (11) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with a requirement contained in a notification made under
subsection (4) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (12) No compensation is payable in respect of any dog that is
destroyed under this section.

                                PART 4

          ANIMAL WELFARE AND PREVENTION
                  OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

                                                                   [46/2014]

Interpretation of this Part

 41. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “animal” includes any beast, bird, fish or reptile, whether wild or
         tame;

      “animal‑related business” means —

              (a) the operation of any place or establishment for the
                   purpose of —

                     (i) using or holding animals for display, sport,
                          entertainment, sale, breeding or conservation;
                          or

                     (ii) the care, boarding, grooming, treatment,
                          vaccination, inoculation, training or
                          destruction of animals, for reward;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
33  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

    (b) the provision of any service relating to the care,
         boarding, grooming, treatment, vaccination,
         inoculation, training, transportation, capture or
         destruction of animals, for reward; or

    (c) the operation of any animal rescue or welfare
        organisation or facility,

    but does not include any business in respect of animals
    intended for consumption;

    “code of animal welfare” means any code of animal welfare
       issued, adopted or amended by the Director‑General and in
       force under section 41A;

    “employment”, in relation to an animal‑related business,
       includes the holding of the office, or purporting to act in
       the capacity, of a director, manager, partner, secretary or other
       analogous position in the animal‑related business;

    “owner”, in relation to an animal, includes a person in charge of
       the animal;

    “person in charge”, in relation to an animal, means a person who
       has, whether permanently or on a temporary basis, the animal
       in the person’s possession, custody or control, or under the
       person’s care or supervision, and includes an individual who
       has the animal in such a manner in the course of the
       individual’s employment;

    “reward” means any payment or other benefit (whether
       monetary or otherwise).

                                                                                                       [46/2014]

Codes of animal welfare

 41A.—(1) The Director‑General may, from time to time, for the
purposes of this Part —

       (a) issue one or more codes of animal welfare;

       (b) adopt as a code of animal welfare, with or without any
            modification, any document (or any part of such

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               34

          document) prepared by any person in or outside Singapore;
          or

          (c) amend or revoke any code of animal welfare issued or
              adopted under this subsection,

with respect to the standards of care to be provided or observed in
respect of any animal or class of animals.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (2) Upon issuing, adopting, amending or revoking a code of animal
welfare under subsection (1), the Director‑General must —

(a) publish a notice of the issue, adoption, amendment or
     revocation (as the case may be) in such manner as will
     secure adequate publicity for such issue, adoption,
     amendment or revocation;

(b) specify the date of the issue, adoption, amendment or
     revocation (as the case may be) in the notice; and

       (c) ensure that the code of animal welfare (including any
            amendment made to the code of animal welfare) remains
            available for access or inspection without charge by the
            public.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (3) Any issue, adoption, amendment or revocation of a code of
animal welfare under subsection (1) does not have any force or effect
until the notice relating to it has been published in accordance with
subsection (2)(a) and (b).

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (4) If any provision of any code of animal welfare in force under
this section is inconsistent with any provision of this Act or any rule
made under this Act, the provision in the code of animal welfare does
not, to the extent of the inconsistency, have effect.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (5) The Director‑General may, either generally or for such time as
the Director‑General may specify, waive the application of any code
of animal welfare (or any part of such code) issued, adopted or
amended under this section to any animal owner or class of animal
owners, or in respect of any animal or class of animals.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
35  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

 (6) Any code of animal welfare issued under this section is deemed
not to be subsidiary legislation.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

Use of codes of animal welfare in proceedings

 41B.—(1) A person shall not be liable to any criminal proceedings
by reason only that the person has failed to observe any provision of a
code of animal welfare.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (2) In any criminal proceedings, any party to the proceedings may
rely upon —

       (a) the failure of a person to comply with a provision of a code
            of animal welfare which applies to that person; or

       (b) that person’s compliance with that provision,

as tending to establish or negate any liability which is in question in
the proceedings.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

Duty of care of animal owners

 41C.—(1) Every owner of an animal —

       (a) must take reasonable steps to ensure that —

               (i) the animal is provided with adequate and suitable
                   food and water, taking into account its dietary needs;

              (ii) the animal is provided with adequate shelter;

             (iii) the animal is not kept in confinement, conveyed,
                   lifted, carried or handled in a manner or position that
                   subjects the animal to unreasonable or unnecessary
                   pain or suffering; and

             (iv) the animal is protected from, and rapidly diagnosed
                   with, any significant injury or disease;

       (b) must not abandon the animal, or cause or permit the animal
            to be abandoned, whether permanently or temporarily,
            without reasonable cause or excuse;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               36

          (c) in the case where the animal is missing, must make
              reasonable efforts to recover the animal; and

       (d) must take reasonable steps to ensure that the animal is
            cared for in accordance with the codes of animal welfare
            applicable to the animal.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (2) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (1)(a), (b)
or (c) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (2) shall
be liable on conviction —

(a) in the case where the person commits the offence in the
     course of carrying on, or employment or purported
     employment with, an animal‑related business —

          (i) for a first offence, to a fine not exceeding $40,000 or
              to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or
              to both; and

          (ii) for a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not
               exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term
               not exceeding 3 years or to both; or

(b) in any other case —

          (i) for a first offence, to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or
              to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months
              or to both; and

              (ii) for a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not
                   exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
                   exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (4) For the purpose of subsection (3), a person is a repeat offender if
the person who is convicted, or found guilty, of an offence under
subsection (2) has (whether before, on or after 16 January 2015) been
convicted or found guilty on at least one other earlier occasion of an
offence under section 42(1)(f) in force immediately before that date.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
37                  Animals and Birds Act 1965               2020 Ed.

Cruelty to animals

42.—(1) Any person who —

    (a) cruelly beats, kicks, ill‑treats, over‑rides, over‑drives,
         over‑loads, tortures, infuriates or terrifies any animal;

    (b) causes or procures or, being the owner, permits any animal
         to be so used;

    (c) by rashly or unreasonably doing or omitting to do any act,
         causes any unnecessary pain or suffering or, being the
         owner, permits any unnecessary pain or suffering to any
         animal;

                                                                        [Act 23 of 2021 wef 01/03/2022]

    (d) employs or causes or procures or, being the owner, permits
         to be employed in any work of labour, any animal which in
         consequence of any disease, infirmity, wound or sore, or
         otherwise, is unfit to be so employed; or

    (e) causes, procures or assists at the fighting or baiting of any
        animal, or keeps, uses, manages, or acts or assists in the
        management of any premises or place for the purpose, or
        partly for the purpose, of fighting or baiting any animal, or
        permits any premises or place to be so kept, managed or
        used, or receives or causes or procures any person to
        receive money for the admission of any person to the
        premises or place,

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                             [46/2014]

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), an owner is deemed to have
permitted cruelty to an animal, if the owner has failed to exercise
reasonable care and supervision in respect of the animal.

 (3) Nothing in this section applies to the commission or omission of
any act in the course of the destruction, or the preparation for
destruction of any animal as food, unless that destruction or
preparation was accompanied by the infliction of unnecessary
suffering.

 (4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               38

(a) in the case where the person commits the offence in the
     course of carrying on, or employment or purported
     employment with, an animal‑related business —

          (i) for a first offence, to a fine not exceeding $40,000 or
              to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or
              to both; and

          (ii) for a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not
               exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term
               not exceeding 3 years or to both; or

(b) in any other case —

          (i) for a first offence, to a fine not exceeding $15,000 or
              to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 18 months
              or to both; and

          (ii) for a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not
               exceeding $30,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
               exceeding 3 years or to both.

                                                                                                 [46/2014]

Prescribed activities and services to be performed by qualified
individuals

 43.—(1) A person carrying on any prescribed animal‑related
business must not employ or engage any individual to perform any
prescribed activity or service, or prescribed class of activities or
services, relating to the ownership of an animal or class of animals
unless the individual holds such qualifications or has completed such
training as the Director‑General may specify.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (2) The Director‑General must publish on a prescribed website the
Director‑General’s specifications on qualifications and training under
subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (3) Any person carrying on a prescribed animal‑related business
who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
39  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

Power to issue directions

 43A.—(1) The Director‑General may in any particular case issue to
the owner of an animal such directions as the Director‑General
considers necessary to ensure that —

    (a) the welfare of the animal is safeguarded; or

    (b) the provisions of this Part are complied with,

and the owner must comply with the directions.

                                                             [46/2014]

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with any direction issued to the person under subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) in the case where the person commits the offence in the
         course of carrying on, or employment or purported
         employment with, an animal‑related business, to a fine
         not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 12 months or to both; or

    (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
         imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
         both.

                                                                                                     [46/2014]

Disqualification orders

 43B.—(1) Where a person is convicted of an offence under
section 41C(2), 42(1) or 43(3), the court before which the person is
convicted of that offence may, in addition to the punishment provided
for that offence —

       (a) in the case where the person commits the offence in the
            course of carrying on, or employment or purported
            employment with, an animal‑related business, disqualify
            the person from —

               (i) carrying on any animal‑related business or class of
                   animal‑related businesses; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               40

          (ii) being a person in charge of any animal or class of
               animals in the course of any employment with any
               animal‑related business; or

(b) in any other case, disqualify the person from owning any
     animal or any class of animals,

for a period not exceeding 12 months starting on such date as the
court may specify.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (2) Where a court makes a disqualification order against a person
under subsection (1), the court may make such order as it thinks fit for
the disposal of any animal owned by the person at the time of the
making or start of the disqualification order.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (3) Any person who contravenes a disqualification order made
against the person under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (4) Any person carrying on the business of an animal‑related
business who, knowingly or with reckless disregard, employs any
individual in any capacity that is prohibited by a disqualification
order made against that individual under subsection (1)(a)(ii) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

Orders by Magistrate when an offence has been committed

 44.—(1) When any person has been convicted of an offence under
this Part, the court may order —

       (a) that the animal in respect of which the offence was
            committed be taken to a veterinary centre or such other
            place as the court may specify and there detained and
            treated for any period stated in the order, or until released
            by further order of a Magistrate or until an authorised
            officer has certified in writing that it may properly be
            released;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
41  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

    (b) that the animal be treated by an authorised officer or by a
         person licensed under section 53 to treat animals and not
         used during such period as may be stated in the order or
         until permission to use it has been given by a Magistrate or
         an authorised officer; or

       (c) if satisfied that the animal is incurably diseased or injured,
            that it be destroyed immediately by or under the direction
            of a police officer or an authorised officer and that the cost
            of burying or otherwise disposing of the carcase be borne
            by the person convicted.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (2) Where the court makes an order under subsection (1)(a), the
person who has been convicted of an offence in respect of the animal
is liable to pay the costs and expenses for its maintenance and
treatment until it is declared fit for release or use.

 (3) Without affecting subsection (1), where the owner of any animal
is convicted of an offence under this Part, the court may, upon
convicting the owner, if it thinks fit, in addition to any other
punishment, deprive him or her of the ownership of the animal and
make such order as to the disposal of the animal as the court thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (4) The court is not to make an order under subsection (3) unless it
is satisfied by evidence as to a previous conviction, or as to the
character of the owner or otherwise, that the animal, if left with the
owner, is likely to be exposed to cruelty.

 (5) Any person who acts in contravention of the provisions of an
order made under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Power to order destruction of animals

 45.—(1) An authorised officer or a police officer who has satisfied
himself or herself by personal inspection or otherwise —

       (a) that an animal is diseased or injured and that the disease or
            injury from which the animal is suffering is incurable or
            that it is cruel to keep the animal alive; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               42

(b) that an animal is so diseased or so severely injured or in
     such a physical condition that, in the officer’s opinion,
     having regard to the means available for removing the
     animal there is no possibility of removing it without cruelty
     and that it is cruel to keep it alive,

may give written directions requiring the animal to be destroyed and
those directions may immediately be carried out by or under the
supervision of that authorised officer or police officer or any other
person authorised in that behalf by the authorised officer or police
officer.

 (2) If the animal so diseased or injured is in any house, stable, shed,
or enclosure proper for that animal and not in a public thoroughfare,
market or place, written directions must not be given until the owner
of the animal (if known) has been duly notified of the state of the
animal.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (3) If any animal is destroyed under written directions given under
subsection (1), the expenses of the removal and burial of the carcase
of the animal must be paid by the owner of the animal and the amount
of the expenses may be recovered from that owner in a summary
manner before a Magistrate.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

No compensation for destruction of an animal incurably
diseased or injured or destroyed at request of professed owner

 46. No compensation is in any case payable to any person in respect
of the destruction of any animal —

       (a) under an order made under section 44(1)(c);

       (b) under written directions given under section 45(1); or

       (c) in compliance with a written request to an authorised
            officer or a person in charge of a veterinary centre or such
            other place as provided for in section 44(1) by any person
            professing to be the owner of the animal.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
43                 Animals and Birds Act 1965                2020 Ed.

Award to informer

 47. The court before which any person is convicted of an offence
under this Part may direct any fine or portion of any fine imposed and
levied under this Act to be paid to the informer.

Animals and birds not to be kept in captivity for sale, export or
exhibition without licence

 48.—(1) A person must not keep in captivity for sale, export or
exhibition any animal or bird in any place which has not been
licensed in that behalf under this Act.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

                                    PART 5

                       CONTROL OF LIVESTOCK

Movement or slaughter of animals and birds may be prohibited

 49.—(1) The Minister may by order —

       (a) prohibit for such period as may be specified in the order the
            movement of any animals and birds from one part of
            Singapore to another except under a licence;

       (b) prohibit during such period or periods as may be specified
            in the order the slaughter of any animal or bird except
            under a licence.

 (2) A licence issued in accordance with an order made under
subsection (1) is subject to such conditions as may be contained in the
order or the licence.

 (3) Any person who contravenes the provisions of an order made
under this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.   Animals and Birds Act 1965                                    44
                      PART 6
                                                                   [46/2014]
          ENFORCEMENT POWERS

Powers of search, etc.

 50.—(1) For the purpose of ascertaining whether any animal or bird
is suffering from disease or for the purpose of ascertaining whether
any offence under this Act has been or is being committed —

       (a) any authorised officer or police officer may enter and
            examine any land, building or premises on or in which the
            officer suspects any animal or bird is being kept, for the
            purpose of examining the animal, bird, land, building or
            premises, and the owner of the land, building, premises,
            animal or bird must render the authorised officer or police
            officer all necessary assistance and provide such
            information as may be required of the owner; and

       (b) any authorised officer, police officer or officer of customs
            may stop, enter and examine any conveyance used for
            carrying animals.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (2) Any authorised officer, police officer or officer of customs
acting under subsection (1) may, if the circumstances so warrant, with
such assistance as he or she thinks necessary, remove anything
obstructing his or her entry to the premises or conveyance or break
open any door, window, lock, fastener, hold, compartment, box,
container or any other thing.

 (2A) Any authorised officer, police officer or officer of customs
acting under subsection (1) may take such photographs or audio or
video recordings as necessary of any premises or conveyance referred
to in that subsection (including anything in the premises or
conveyance).

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (2B) Any authorised officer, police officer or officer of customs
may stop and examine in any street or public place any animal in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
45  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

respect of which the officer has reason to believe that an offence
under this Act has been or is being committed.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (3) No compensation is payable to any person in respect of any
damage to the person’s property caused or occasioned by any act
authorised by subsection (2).

 (4) Any person in charge of a conveyance who does not stop when
required to do so by any authorised officer, police officer or officer of
customs under subsection (1)(b) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Powers of seizure

 51.—(1) Where any authorised officer or police officer has reason
to believe that any offence under this Act has been or is being
committed or where any officer of customs has reason to believe that
an offence under this Act relating to import or export has been or is
being committed, the authorised officer, police officer or officer of
customs may —

       (a) seize any animal, bird, carcase or article which is the
            subject matter of such an offence;

      (aa) seize any article or conveyance with which or by means of
            which, the offence is reasonably suspected to have been
            committed; and

       (b) remove that animal, bird, carcase, article or conveyance to
            any compound, enclosure or other place selected by the
            authorised officer and there detain it.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (2) Where any animal, bird, carcase, article or conveyance has been
seized and detained under subsection (1), the authorised officer,
police officer or officer of customs must report the same to a
Magistrate and the Magistrate may make such order for the further
detention or release of the animal, bird, carcase, article or conveyance
as the Magistrate may think fit.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               46

 (3) The owner of the animal, bird, carcase, article or conveyance
must pay such sum as the Magistrate may consider reasonable to
cover the expenses connected with its removal to a place of detention
and unless that sum is paid within a specified time the animal, bird,
carcase, article or conveyance must be forfeited.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

Powers of arrest

 52.—(1) An authorised officer, a police officer or an officer of
customs may arrest without warrant any person whom the officer
reasonably suspects of committing or attempting to commit an
offence under this Act.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (1A) The officer making an arrest under this section must not
restrain the person arrested more than is necessary to prevent the
person’s escape.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (2) Any authorised officer, police officer or officer of customs
making an arrest without warrant must, subject to subsection (3),
without unnecessary delay bring the person arrested before a
Magistrate’s Court.

 (2A) A person who is arrested under this section must not be
detained in custody for a period longer than is reasonable under the
circumstances of the case, and such period must not exceed 48 hours
(excluding the time necessary for the journey to a Magistrate’s
Court).

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (3) A person who has been arrested by any authorised officer,
police officer or officer of customs must not be released, except on
the person’s own bond or on bail or on the special order in writing of
the Magistrate or the Director‑General.

Powers of investigation

 52A.—(1) For the purposes of investigating any offence under this
Act, an authorised officer, a police officer or an officer of customs
may do all or any of the following:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
47  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

    (a) examine orally any person who appears to be material to
         the investigation —

    (i) whether before or after that person or anyone else is
        charged with an offence in connection with the case;
        and

    (ii) whether or not the person is to be called as a witness
         in any inquiry, trial or other proceeding in connection
         with the case;

    (b) issue a written notice requiring any person within the limits
         of Singapore, who appears to be material to the
         investigation, to attend before the officer;

    (c) require any person who is reasonably believed to have —

    (i) any information; or

    (ii) any document or article in the person’s possession,
         custody or control,

       (c) relevant to the investigation, to provide that information, or
            produce that document or article.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (2) Any person examined under this section is bound to state truly
what the person knows of the facts and circumstances of the case,
except that the person need not say anything that might expose the
person to a criminal charge, penalty or forfeiture.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (3) A statement made by any person examined under this section
must —

    (a) be reduced to writing;

    (b) be read over to the person;

    (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
        a language that the person understands; and

       (d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the person.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (4) If any person fails to comply with a written notice issued to the
person by the authorised officer, police officer or officer of customs

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               48

under subsection (1)(b), the officer may report such failure to a
Magistrate who may then issue a warrant ordering the person to
comply with the written notice.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (5) Subject to subsection (6), an authorised officer, a police officer
or an officer of customs may take possession of, or any extract from
or copy of, any document or article produced under subsection (1)(c)
for further investigation.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (6) Any thing taken possession of by an authorised officer, a police
officer or an officer of customs under subsection (5) —

(a) must be placed in safe custody by the officer; and

       (b) unless ordered otherwise by a court, may be retained by the
            officer until the completion of any proceedings (including
            proceedings on appeal) in which it may be evidence.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

 (7) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to
comply with any notice issued to the person under subsection (1)(b)
or with any requirement made of the person under subsection (1)(c)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [46/2014]

                                    PART 7

              LICENSING OF VETERINARY CENTRE,
            VETERINARY BIOLOGICS AND KEEPING,

              BREEDING, ETC., OF ANIMAL OR BIRD

Licence to treat, vaccinate and inoculate animal or bird

 53.—(1) A person other than an authorised officer must not treat,
vaccinate or inoculate any animal or bird except under and in
accordance with the conditions of a licence issued by the
Director‑General.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
49  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Veterinary centres to be licensed

 54.—(1) A person must not use or permit any premises to be used as
a veterinary centre except under and in accordance with the
conditions of a licence issued by the Director‑General.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Licence to possess or inoculate veterinary biologics

 55.—(1) A person other than an authorised officer must not —

       (a) have in the person’s possession any veterinary biologics; or

       (b) inoculate any animal or bird with any veterinary biologics,

except under and in accordance with the conditions of a licence issued
by the Director‑General.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Brands or other identification marks may be applied to
animals and birds

 56.—(1) The Director‑General or an authorised officer may give
directions to the owner or person in charge of any animal or bird to
have that animal or bird branded, labelled or otherwise marked, either
permanently or temporarily, for the purpose of identification.

 (2) The branding, labelling or marking of any animal or bird under
subsection (1) must be carried out by a person designated by the
Director‑General under subsection (3) and the costs thereof must be
borne by the owner or person in charge of the animal or bird.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965  50

 (3) The Director‑General may designate any person to carry out the
branding, labelling or marking of animals and birds for the purpose of
this section.

(4) Any person who —

(a) fails to comply with any direction given to the person
     under subsection (1); or

(b) counterfeits, copies, alters, defaces or erases any brand,
     label or mark applied on any animal or bird under this
     section,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                    PART 8

                               QUARANTINE

Quarantine stations

 57.—(1) The Director‑General may establish or designate such
number of quarantine stations as the Director‑General thinks
necessary for the purposes of this Act.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Director‑General may
engage the service of any suitably qualified person to provide such
number of quarantine stations as the Director‑General thinks
necessary and to manage any quarantine station established by the
Director‑General under subsection (1).

Prohibition against use of premises as unauthorised quarantine
stations

 58.—(1) A person must not use or permit any premises to be used as
a quarantine station for animals or birds unless such premises have
been designated by the Director‑General as a quarantine station under
section 57.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
51  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

Regulation and control of keeping, breeding or feeding of
animals and birds

59.—(1) The Minister may make rules for the following purposes:

    (a) to prohibit, either absolutely or subject to such conditions
         as may be prescribed, the keeping, breeding or feeding in
         any private or public place of any animal or bird or type
         thereof;

    (b) to regulate the keeping, breeding or feeding in any private
         or public place of any animal or bird or type thereof; and

    (c) to provide for the impounding of stray cats or dogs found in
        any public place.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), rules made under that
subsection may —

    (a) require any person intending to keep or breed any animal
         or bird or type thereof in any private or public place to
         obtain a licence from the Director‑General and to comply
         with the conditions of such licence;

    (b) provide for the licence to be issued in respect of either or
         both —

    (i) the animal or bird to be kept or bred; and

    (ii) the place at which the animal or bird is to be kept or
         bred; and

    (c) empower the Director‑General or an authorised officer to
        remove or destroy or cause the removal or destruction of
        any animal or bird in connection with which any
        contravention of any rule made under this section has
        been committed.

 (3) No compensation is payable in respect of any animal or bird
which is required by any rules made under subsection (2)(c) to be
destroyed.

(4) Section 80(3) applies in respect of rules made under this section.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               52

          PART 9

          OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

Obstructing officers in execution of their duties

 60. Any person who, without lawful excuse, obstructs or impedes
or assists in obstructing or impeding any authorised officer, officer of
customs or police officer in the exercise of the officer’s duties under
this Act or any rule or order made thereunder shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Giving false information

 60A. A person —

       (a) who intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any
            document or information which the person has been
            required by or under section 52A to produce or provide; or

       (b) who, in producing or providing any document or
            information required by or under section 52A, makes
            any statement which the person knows or ought reasonably
            to know that, or is reckless as to whether, it is false or
            misleading in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

Altering licences

 61. Any person who, without lawful authority, alters any licence or
permit issued under this Act or knowingly makes use of any licence
or permit so altered shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
53  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

Suspension and revocation of licences and permits

 62.—(1) The Director‑General may suspend or revoke a licence or
permit if the Director‑General is satisfied that —

    (a) the issue of the licence or permit has been obtained by
         fraud or misrepresentation;

    (b) the person to whom the licence or permit has been issued is
         contravening or has contravened or has failed to comply
         with —

    (i) any of the provisions of this Act;

    (ii) any condition of the licence or permit; or

    (iii) any direction given to the person by the
          Director‑General or an authorised officer under this
          Act or by the Director‑General, Food Administration
          under Part 2A of the Sale of Food Act 1973; or

       (c) it is in the public interest to suspend or revoke the licence
            or permit.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 10/2019]

 (2) The Director‑General must, before suspending or revoking the
licence or permit under subsection (1) —

    (a) give the holder of the licence or permit written notice of the
         Director‑General’s intention to do so; and

    (b) in such notice call upon the holder of the licence or permit
         to show cause within such time as may be specified in the
         notice as to why the licence or permit should not be
         suspended or revoked.

(3) If the holder of the licence or permit —

    (a) fails to show cause within the period of time given to the
         holder to do so or such extended period of time as the
         Director‑General may allow; or

    (b) fails to show sufficient cause,

the Director‑General must give written notice to the holder of the
licence or permit of the date from which the suspension or revocation
of the licence or permit is to take effect.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               54

 (4) Any person who is aggrieved by the suspension or revocation of
the person’s licence or permit may, within 7 days from the date of
receipt of the notice informing the person of the suspension or
revocation, appeal in writing to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (5) Even though an appeal under subsection (4) is pending, the
suspension or revocation of a licence or permit under subsection (3)
takes effect from the date of suspension or revocation specified by the
Director‑General, unless the Minister otherwise orders.

Penalties for offences for which no expressed penalty is
provided

 63. Any person guilty of an offence under this Act, or any rule or
order made thereunder for which no expressed penalty is provided
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Forfeiture

 64.—(1) The court before which any person is tried for an offence
under this Act may make an order for the forfeiture of any item which
has been seized under the provisions of this Act if —

       (a) the court is satisfied that —

               (i) an offence under this Act has been committed; and

              (ii) the item seized was the subject matter, or was used in
                   the commission, of the offence; and

       (b) having regard to the circumstances of the case, the court
            thinks it fit to order the forfeiture of the item.

 (2) Where no party raises the question of forfeiture under
subsection (1), the court is to consider the question on its own motion.

 (3) The court may make an order under subsection (1) for the
forfeiture of any item which has been seized under the provisions of
this Act even though no person may have been convicted of an
offence.

 (4) If the court, having regard to the circumstances of the case, does
not think it fit to order the forfeiture of any item which has been

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
55  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

seized under the provisions of this Act, the court is to order that the
item be released to the owner thereof or to the person entitled thereto.

 (5) In the absence of any prosecution with regard to any item which
has been seized under the provisions of this Act, the Director‑General
must give the person from whom the item was seized or the owner of
the item written notice that the item is, on the expiry of 7 days from
the date specified in the notice, deemed to be forfeited unless a claim
thereto is made before then in accordance with subsection (6).

(6) A person asserting —

    (a) that the person is the owner of, or is entitled to, any item
         which has been seized under the provisions of this Act; and

    (b) that the item is not liable to forfeiture,

may, personally or by the person’s agent authorised in writing, give
written notice to the Director‑General that the person claims the item.

 (7) On receipt of a notice under subsection (6), the
Director‑General may direct that the item be released to the person
who has given the notice or may refer the matter to a court for
decision.

 (8) Where no claim is received on the expiry of 7 days from the date
specified in the notice mentioned in subsection (5), the item to which
the notice relates is deemed to be forfeited.

 (9) Where the owner of any item seized under the provisions of this
Act consents to its disposal, the item is thereupon deemed to be
forfeited.

 (10) Any item forfeited or deemed to be forfeited under this section
must be delivered to an authorised officer and must be disposed of in
such manner as the Director‑General thinks fit.

 (11) In this section, “item” means any animal, bird, carcase or any
other article.

Presumptions

 65.—(1) Where the owner or person in charge of a diseased animal
or bird is charged with an offence under this Act in respect of the
disease, the owner or person is presumed to have known of the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               56

existence of the disease in the animal or bird until the owner or person
shows to the satisfaction of the court before which the owner or
person is charged that the owner or person had no such knowledge
and could not with reasonable diligence have obtained such
knowledge.

 (2) Where there is any doubt regarding the ownership of any animal
or bird, the person found in possession of the animal or bird, or the
occupier of the premises frequented by it may be presumed to be the
owner thereof until the contrary is proved.

Offences committed by bodies corporate and by agents and
servants

 66.—(1) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a
body corporate, a partnership or an unincorporated association of
persons, any person who at the time of the commission of the offence
was a director, manager, partner, secretary or other similar officer
thereof, or was purporting to act in any such capacity, shall be guilty
of that offence unless he or she proves that —

       (a) the offence was committed without his or her consent or
            connivance; and

       (b) he or she had exercised all such diligence to prevent the
            commission of the offence as he or she ought to have
            exercised having regard to the nature of his or her functions
            in that capacity and to all the circumstances.

 (2) Where an offence under this Act is committed by any person
acting as an agent or servant of another person, or being otherwise
subject to the supervision or instruction of another person for the
purposes of any employment in the course of which the offence was
committed, that other person shall, without affecting the liability of
the firstmentioned person, be liable under this Act in the same manner
and to the same extent as if that other person had personally
committed the offence if it is proved that the act which constituted the
offence was committed with that other person’s consent or
connivance or that it was attributable to any neglect on that other
person’s part.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
57  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

Jurisdiction of court

 67.—(1) Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010, a District Court and a Magistrate’s Court have
jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act and have power to
impose the full penalty or punishment in respect of any offence under
this Act.

 (2) For the purpose of section 151 of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, on receiving the complaint in writing and signed by the
Director‑General or an authorised officer, the Magistrate must
proceed to issue a summons or warrant in accordance with
section 153 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

Evidence

 68.—(1) Subject to subsection (3) —

       (a) a document or certificate purporting to be a report under
            the hand of the Director‑General or an authorised officer
            upon any matter or thing in connection with the
            administration or enforcement of this Act or with any
            investigation carried out under this Act is admissible as
            evidence in any proceedings under this Act and is prima
            facie evidence of the facts stated therein; and

       (b) a certificate of an authorised examiner stating that he or she
            has examined any animal or bird or any other matter and
            stating the result of his or her examination is admissible as
            evidence in any proceedings for an offence under this Act
            and is prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein and
            of the correctness of the result of the examination.

 (2) For the purposes of this section, a document purporting to be a
certificate mentioned in subsection (1) on its production by the
prosecution is, unless the contrary is proved, presumed to be such a
certificate.

 (3) A certificate mentioned in subsection (1) is not to be received in
evidence pursuant to that subsection unless the person charged has
been given —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               58

(a) a copy of the certificate; and

(b) notice of the intention of the prosecution to produce the
     certificate as evidence in the proceedings,

at least 10 clear days before the date of commencement of the
proceedings.

 (4) Where a certificate of the Director‑General, an authorised
officer or an authorised examiner is admitted in evidence under
subsection (1), the person charged may require the Director‑General,
authorised officer or authorised examiner to be called as a witness for
the prosecution and be cross‑examined as if he or she had given
evidence of the matters stated in the certificate.

Composition of offences

 69.—(1) The Director‑General or any officer authorised in writing
in that behalf by the Board may compound any offence under this Act
that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
not exceeding $1,000.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (2) On payment of the sum, no further proceedings are to be taken
against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All composition sums collected under this section must be paid
into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

                                   PART 10

                   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Fees, etc., payable to Board

 70. All fees, charges and moneys collected under this Act or any
rules made under this Act (except composition sums) must be paid to
the Board.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
59        Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

Expenses

 71. Any expense incurred by an authorised officer or other officer
in the exercise of the powers conferred on him or her by this Act or
any rule, order or direction made or given thereunder is to be charged
against the owner, consignor, consignee or importer (as the case may
be) of the animal, bird, carcase, article, building or conveyance
concerned and may be recovered as a civil debt.

Action to be at risk and expense of owner

 72.—(1) Any action taken under the provisions of this Act or of any
rule, order or direction made or given thereunder in respect of any
animal, bird, carcase, article, building or conveyance is at the risk of
the owner thereof.

 (2) No liability shall attach to the Board or to any officer thereof in
respect of any expense, loss, damage or delay arising in or from the
lawful exercise of the powers under this Act.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

Powers of Director‑General and authorised officer in cases of
non‑compliance with Act or any direction or order

 73.—(1) If a person to whom any of the provisions of this Act
applies or to whom any direction or order is given under this Act fails
to comply with such provision, direction or order, then, without
prejudice to any proceedings that may be instituted against that
person for such non‑compliance, the Director‑General or an
authorised officer may perform any act or take any measure as is
required by the provision, direction or order to be performed or taken
and recover any costs and expenses reasonably incurred by him or her
from that person.

 (2) In exercising the powers conferred by subsection (1), the
Director‑General or authorised officer may, without warrant, enter
any premises, vehicle, ship or aircraft and, if the circumstances so
warrant, may use such force as may be necessary to effect such entry.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               60

Power to require production of documents, etc.

 74.—(1) For the purpose of discharging his or her functions and
duties under this Act, the Director‑General or an authorised officer
may at any time require any person —

(a) to produce to the Director‑General or authorised officer for
     inspection or for the purpose of obtaining copies or
     extracts, or to provide the Director‑General or authorised
     officer with copies or extracts of, any book, shipping bill,
     bill of lading or other document or record that the
     Director‑General or authorised officer believes on
     reasonable grounds to contain any information relevant
     to the administration or enforcement of this Act; or

(b) to provide any information as the Director‑General or
     authorised officer may reasonably require.

 (2) The Director‑General or an authorised officer may record any
information provided by any person under subsection (1)(b) as a
statement which is admissible as evidence in any proceedings in
connection with any offence under this Act.

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with any requirement made by
the Director‑General or an authorised officer under subsection (1)(a)
or (b) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or to both.

Form and authentication of notices, orders and other
documents

 75.—(1) All notices, orders and other documents of any nature
which the Director‑General is empowered to give by this Act may be
in such form as the Director‑General may determine, and may be
given by any authorised officer.

 (2) Where any such notice, order or document requires
authentication —

       (a) the signature of the Director‑General or an authorised
            officer; or

       (b) an official facsimile of such signature,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
61  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

appended thereto is sufficient authentication.

Inaccuracies in documents

 76.—(1) Any misnomer or inaccurate description of any person,
animal, bird, premises, building, street, place, vehicle, aircraft, ship
or other conveyance named or described in any notice, order or
document prepared, issued or served under or for the purposes of this
Act does not affect in any way the operation of this Act as respects
that person, animal, bird, premises, building, street, place, vehicle,
aircraft, ship or other conveyance if that person, animal, bird,
premises, building, street, place, vehicle, aircraft, ship or other
conveyance is so designated in the notice, order or document as to be
identifiable.

 (2) No proceedings taken under or by virtue of this Act are to be
invalid for want of form.

Service of documents

 77.—(1) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by
this Act to be served on any person, and any summons issued by a
court against any person in connection with any offence under this
Act may be served on the person —

       (a) by delivering it to the person or to an adult member or
            employee of his or her family or household at his or her
            usual or last known place of residence;

       (b) by leaving it at the person’s usual or last known place of
            residence or business in an envelope addressed to the
            person;

       (c) by sending it by registered post addressed to the person at
            the person’s usual or last known place of residence or
            business; or

       (d) in the case of an incorporated company, a partnership or a
            body of persons —

               (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other similar
                   officer of the company, partnership or body of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               62

          persons at its registered office or principal place of
          business; or

          (ii) by sending it by registered post addressed to the
               company, partnership or body of persons at its
               registered office or principal place of business.

 (2) Any notice, order, document or summons sent by registered post
to any person in accordance with subsection (1) is deemed to be duly
served on the person at the time when the notice, order, document or
summons (as the case may be) would in the ordinary course of post be
delivered and, in proving service of the notice, order, document or
summons, it is sufficient to prove that the envelope containing the
same was properly addressed, stamped and posted by registered post.

 (3) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by this
Act to be served on the owner or occupier of any premises or any
summons issued by a court against any such owner or occupier in
connection with any offence under this Act may be served by
delivering it or a true copy thereof to any adult person on the premises
or, if there is no such person on the premises to whom it can with
reasonable diligence be delivered, by affixing the notice, order,
document or summons to a conspicuous part of the premises.

 (4) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by this
Act to be served on the owner or occupier of any premises or any
summons issued by a court against any such owner or occupier in
connection with any offence under this Act is deemed to be properly
addressed if addressed by the description of the owner or occupier of
the premises without further name or description.

Protection from liability

 78. No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against the Board,
the Director‑General or any authorised officer, police officer, officer
of customs or any other person acting under the direction of the Board
or Director‑General for anything which is in good faith done in the
execution or purported execution of this Act.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
63         Animals and Birds Act 1965                        2020 Ed.

Exemption

 79. The Director‑General may, subject to any general or special
directions of the Minister, exempt any person, premises, animal or
bird or any class of persons, premises, animals or birds from any of
the provisions of this Act.

Rules

 80.—(1) The Minister may make rules for carrying out the purposes
of this Act and for any matter which is required under this Act to be
prescribed.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may make rules —

       (a) to provide for the designation of an authorised examiner,
            the conditions to be complied with by an authorised
            examiner and the suspension or revocation of any such
            designation;

       (b) to provide for the manner in which the quarantining,
            examination, treatment and certification of animals and
            birds are to be carried out;

       (c) to regulate the import, export and transhipment of animals,
            birds or carcases;

       (d) to provide for the prevention of the introduction and spread
            and for the control and eradication of diseases of animals
            and birds;

       (e) to provide for the cleansing or disinfection of buildings,
            vehicles, aircraft or ships in which diseased animals, birds
            or carcases have been kept or carried;

        (f) to provide for the disinfection of persons and the
            disinfection and treatment of animals, birds or articles
            that have been in contact with diseased animals, birds or
            carcases;

       (g) to regulate and control the sale, marketing and distribution
            of animals and birds and their products;

       (h) to provide for the licensing, control, supervision and
            inspection of places in which animals or birds are or may

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
2020 Ed.  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               64

          be kept in captivity for sale, export, exhibition, production,
          or any other purpose;

(ha) to provide for the licensing, control, supervision and
      inspection of places and establishments where animals (as
      defined in section 41) are or may be boarded for reward;

          (i) to provide for the inspection of premises subject to this Act
              and of vehicles, aircraft or ships used for the carriage of
              animals and birds;

          (j) to provide for the control of pollution caused by animals
              and the imposition of fees and charges for the purpose of
              such control together with the time, place and manner of
              collection;

          (k) to provide for the control and improvement of animal or
              bird production in respect of breeding, nutrition, health,
              management, husbandry and method of production;

          (l) to provide for the supply, collection and compilation of
              information and statistics of animals and birds and their
              products, including prescribing the records that must be
              kept by licensees and the provision of returns and other
              information by licensees to the Director‑General with
              respect to the animals or birds or their products which are
              the subject of activity authorised by the licence;

(m) to provide for the establishment and designation of
     quarantine stations;

(n) to regulate the management and maintenance of quarantine
     stations and veterinary centres;

(o) to prescribe the fees to be charged for the purposes of this
     Act;

(p) to prescribe the offences which may be compounded under
     section 69 and the method and procedure by which such
     offences may be compounded; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
65  Animals and Birds Act 1965                               2020 Ed.

       (q) to provide for matters relating to the employment or
            engagement of qualified or trained individuals by persons
            carrying on animal‑related businesses.

                                                                                                [46/2014; 10/2019]

 (3) The Minister may, in making any rules, provide that any
contravention of, or failure or neglect to comply with, any provision
of the rules or any directive issued by the Director‑General pursuant
to the rules shall be an offence punishable with a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or with imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or
with both.

 (4) All rules made under this Act must be presented to Parliament as
soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                   ANIMALS AND BIRDS ACT 1965

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                 PART 1
      ORDINANCE NO. 77 (CRUELTY TO ANIMALS)

                    (1926 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance XIV of 1902 — The Cruelty to Animals Prevention
                                       Ordinance 1902

Bill                  : G.N. No. 581/1902

First Reading         : 6 May 1902

Second Reading        : 16 May 1902

Notice of Amendments  : 20 June 1902

Third Reading         : 20 June 1902

Commencement          : 20 June 1902

2. Ordinance XXI of 1903 — The Cruelty to Animals Prevention
                                       Ordinance 1902 Amendment
                                       Ordinance 1903

Bill                  : G.N. No. 172/1903

First Reading         : 4 September 1903

Second Reading        : 11 September 1903

Third Reading         : 25 September 1903

Commencement          : 25 September 1903

3. 1920 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 77 (Cruelty to Animals)

Operation             : 28 November 1921

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
                      ii

4. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 77 (Cruelty to Animals)

Operation             : 1 August 1926

                                 PART 2
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS ORDINANCE

          (CHAPTER 237, 1955 REVISED EDITION)

5. Ordinance 10 of 1930 — Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
                                    Ordinance, 1930

Bill                  : G.N. No. 831/1930

First Reading         : 12 May 1930

Second Reading        : 7 July 1930

Notice of Amendments  : 7 July 1930

Third Reading         : 25 August 1930

Commencement          : 8 September 1930

6. 1936 Revised Edition — Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Ordinance
                                    (Chapter 31)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

7. Ordinance 37 of 1952 — Law Revision (Penalties Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1952

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 7 of the Schedule to the above
   Ordinance)

Bill                  : 32/1952

First Reading         : 16 September 1952

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 1952

Commencement          : 30 April 1955 (section 2 read with
                            item 7 of the Schedule)

8. 1955 Revised Edition — Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Ordinance
                                    (Chapter 237)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

9. Ordinance 33 of 1963 — Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Amendment)
                                   Ordinance, 1963

Bill                  : 11/1963

First Reading         : 28 November 1963

Second and Third Readings : 20 December 1963

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
Commencement           iii
                      : 1 September 1963

                                 PART 3
                ANIMALS AND BIRDS ACT 1965

                     (2020 REVISED EDITION)

10. Ordinance 3 of 1965 — Animals and Birds Ordinance, 1965

Bill                  : 39/1964

First Reading         : 19 November 1964

Second Reading        : 16 June 1965

Notice of Amendments  : 16 June 1965

Third Reading         : 16 June 1965

Commencement          : 22 October 1965 (except section 71)
                            20 May 1966 (section 71)

11. 1970 Revised Edition — Animals and Birds Act (Chapter 289)

Operation             : 31 August 1971

12. Act 21 of 1973 — Statutes of the Republic of Singapore (Miscellaneous
                             Amendments) Act, 1973

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 16/1973

First Reading         : 7 March 1973

Second and Third Readings : 20 March 1973

Commencement          : 6 April 1973 (section 2 read with
                            the Schedule)

13. G.N. No. S 259/1979 — Animals and Birds (Amendment of Schedule)
                                    Notification, 1979

Commencement          : 1 January 1980

14. 1985 Revised Edition — Animals and Birds Act (Chapter 7)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

15. Act 7 of 1996 — Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore Act 1996
     (Amendments made by section 121(4) read with item (1) of the Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 46/1995

First Reading         : 5 December 1995

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
               iv

Second and Third Readings : 18 January 1996

Commencement   : 2 February 1996 (section 121(4) read
                     with item (1) of the Schedule)

16. Act 7 of 1997 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1997
     (Amendments made by section 7 read with item (2) of the Second Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill           : 6/1997

First Reading  : 11 July 1997

Second and Third Readings : 25 August 1997

Commencement   : 1 October 1997 (section 7 read with
                     item (2) of the Second Schedule)

17. Act 16 of 2000 — Agri-food and Veterinary Authority Act 2000
     (Amendments made by section 47 read with item (1) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 11/2000

First Reading  : 21 February 2000

Second and Third Readings : 17 March 2000

Commencement   : 1 April 2000 (section 47 read with
                     item (1) of the Schedule)

18. Act 10 of 2002 — Animals and Birds (Amendment) Act 2002

Bill           : 2/2002

First Reading  : 3 April 2002

Second and Third Readings : 8 July 2002

Commencement   : 15 September 2002

19. 2002 Revised Edition — Animals and Birds Act (Chapter 7)

Operation      : 31 December 2002

20. Act 4 of 2003 — Customs (Amendment) Act 2003
     (Amendments made by section 26 read with item (2) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 6/2003

First Reading  : 10 March 2003

Second and Third Readings : 21 March 2003

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
                v

Commencement    : 1 April 2003 (section 26 read with
                      item (2) of the Schedule)

21. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 3 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill            : 11/2010

First Reading   : 26 April 2010

Second Reading  : 18 May 2010

Third Reading   : 19 May 2010

Commencement    : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                      item 3 of the Sixth Schedule)

22. Act 46 of 2014 — Animals and Birds (Amendment) Act 2014

Bill            : 40/2014

First Reading   : 7 October 2014

Second and Third Readings : 5 November 2014

Commencement    : 16 January 2015

23. Act 48 of 2017 — Sale of Food (Amendment) Act 2017
     (Amendments made by section 23 of the above Act)

Bill            : 42/2017

First Reading   : 2 October 2017

Second and Third Readings : 7 November 2017

Commencement    : 1 February 2018 (section 23)

24. Act 10 of 2019 — National Parks Board (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 9 of the above Act)

Bill            : 4/2019

First Reading   : 15 January 2019

Second and Third Readings : 12 February 2019

Commencement    : 1 April 2019 (section 9)

25. 2020 Revised Edition — Animals and Birds Act 1965

Operation       : 31 December 2021

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
                          vi

26. Act 23 of 2021 — Criminal Law (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2021

Date of First Reading     : 2 August 2021
                                (Bill No. 20/2021)

Date of Second and Third  : 19 September 2021
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 March 2022

                          Abbreviations

.             (updated on 29 August 2022)
              Gazette Notification
G.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
G.N. Sp.      Legislative Assembly
L.A.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
L.N.          Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
M.            Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
              Malaysia)
Parl.         Parliament
S             Subsidiary Legislation
S.I.          Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S (N.S.)      Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
S.S.G.G.      Straits Settlements Government Gazette
S.S.G.G. (E)  Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
      COMPARATIVE TABLE
ANIMALS AND BIRDS ACT 1965

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2002 Ed.
41                         41 and 41C—(5)
41                         41 and 42—(5)
41                         41 and 43A—(3)
41                         41 and 43B—(5)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/3/2022
