THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
               PAYMENT SERVICES ACT 2019

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                                                                  2020 Ed.

         Payment Services Act 2019

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
         Interpretation
     1.  Application of Act
     2.  Appointment of assistants
     3.
     4.

                                        PART 2

            LICENSING OF PAYMENT SERVICE PROVIDERS

            Division 1 — Licensing of payment service providers

 5. Licensing of payment service providers
 6. Application for licence
 7. Variation or change of licence
 8. Holding out as licensee, etc.
 9. Prohibition against solicitation
10. Annual fees of licensees
11. Lapsing, surrender, revocation or suspension of licence
12. Appeals to Minister
13. Exempt payment service providers

                        Division 2 — Conduct of business

                            Subdivision (1) — General

14. Place of business or registered office of licensee
15. Obligation of licensee to notify Authority of certain events
16. Obligation of licensee to provide information to Authority
17. Obligation of licensee to submit periodic reports
18. Prohibition against use of unlicensed agent
19. Prohibition against exchanging e‑money withdrawn from

         payment account for Singapore currency
20. Prohibition from carrying on certain businesses
21. Application of section 14 of Currency Act 1967

                                                      1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                       2

Section

   21A. Additional requirements in respect of licensee providing digital
            payment token service

          Subdivision (2) — Major payment institutions

22. Security
23. Safeguarding of money received from customer
24. Restrictions on personal payment account that contains e‑money
25. Powers of Authority to ensure interoperability between payment

         accounts and payment system
26. Powers of Authority to ensure interoperability between payment

         systems

          Division 3 — Control of controllers of licensees

27. Application and interpretation of this Division
28. Control of shareholding in licensee
29. Objection to existing control of licensee
30. Power of Authority to issue directions for this Division
31. Power of Authority to obtain information relating to this

         Division
32. Offences, penalties and defences
33. Appeals to Minister

          Division 4 — Control of officers of licensees

34. Approval of chief executive officer, director or partner of
         licensee

35. Removal of chief executive officer, director or partner of
         licensee

36. Appeals to Minister

          Division 5 — Audit of licensees

37. Auditing
38. Powers of auditor appointed by Authority
39. Restriction on auditor’s and employee’s right to communicate

         certain matters
40. Offence to destroy, conceal, alter, etc., records

                                        PART 3
                               PAYMENT SYSTEMS
    Division 1 — Information gathering powers over payment systems
41. Provision of information to Authority

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
3        Payment Services Act 2019                                       2020 Ed.

         Division 2 — Designation of payment systems

Section  Power of Authority to designate payment systems
         Prohibition against holding out as designated payment system
   42.   Power of Authority to impose conditions or restrictions
   43.   Withdrawal of designation of payment system
   44.   Exemptions applicable to operator, settlement institution or
   45.   participant of payment system designated to ensure efficiency or
   46.   competitiveness

   Division 3 — Obligations of operators and settlement institutions of
                           designated payment systems

   47. Obligation of operator or settlement institution to have place of
            business or registered office

   48. Obligation of operator or settlement institution to notify
            Authority of certain events

   49. Obligation of operator to submit periodic reports
   50. Obligation of operator to notify Authority of businesses and

            acquisition of corporations

         Division 4 — Access regime

   51. Power of Authority to impose access regime
   52. Variation of access regime
   53. Cessation and revocation of access regime
   54. Right to apply to General Division of High Court in respect of

            access regime

         Division 5 — Voluntary transfer of business

   55. Interpretation of this Division
   56. Voluntary transfer of business
   57. Approval of transfer

         Division 6 — Control of controllers of operators of designated
                                     payment systems

   58. Application and interpretation of this Division
   59. Control of shareholding in operator
   60. Objection to existing control of operator
   61. Power of Authority to issue directions for this Division
   62. Power of Authority to obtain information relating to this

            Division
   63. Offences, penalties and defences
   64. Appeals to Minister

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                       4

          Division 7 — Control of officers of operators and settlement
                     institutions of designated payment systems

Section   Approval of chief executive officer or director of operator
   65.    Removal of executive officer or director of operator or
   66.    settlement institution
          Appeals to Minister
   67.

          Division 8 — Audit of operators and settlement institutions of
                              designated payment systems

68. Auditing
69. Powers of auditor appointed by Authority
70. Restriction on auditor’s and employee’s right to communicate

         certain matters
71. Offence to destroy, conceal, alter, etc., records

                                        PART 4

                                    INSPECTION

72. Inspection by Authority
73. [Repealed]
74. Confidentiality of inspection reports
75. Self‑incrimination
76. Saving for advocates and solicitors

                                       PART 4A
                                 INVESTIGATIONS

                             Division 1 — Preliminary
76A. Interpretation of this Part

                Division 2 — Investigative powers of Authority
                            Subdivision (1) — General

76B. Investigation by Authority
76C. Confidentiality of investigation reports
76D. Self‑incrimination and saving for advocates and solicitors

                   Subdivision (2) — Examination of persons
76E. Requirement to appear for examination
76F. Proceedings at examination
76G. Requirements made of examinee

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
5        Payment Services Act 2019                                       2020 Ed.

Section  Examination to take place in private
         Record of examination
   76H.  Giving copies of record to other persons
   76I.  Copies given subject to conditions
   76J.
   76K.

         Subdivision (3) — Powers to obtain information

   76L. Power of Authority to order production of books, provision of
            information or giving of access to data

   76M. Power to enter premises without warrant
   76N. Warrant to seize books, etc.
   76O. Powers where books are produced, etc.
   76P. Powers where books not produced, information not provided or

            access to book or data not given
   76Q. Copies of or extracts from books to be admitted in evidence
   76R. Offences under this Division

         Division 3 — Transfer of evidence

   76S. Interpretation of this Division
   76T. Evidence obtained by Authority may be used in criminal

            investigations and proceedings
   76U. Evidence obtained under Criminal Procedure Code 2010 may be

            used for purposes of Act

                                           PART 5

                                EMERGENCY POWERS

   77. Interpretation of this Part
   78. Action by Authority if payment entity unable to meet

            obligations, etc.
   79. Emergency powers of Authority applicable to designated

            payment systems
   80. Assumption of control
   81. Other provisions concerning control
   82. Responsibilities of directors, officers, etc., of payment entity
   83. Remuneration and expenses of Authority and others in certain

            cases

                                           PART 6
         ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN REGULATORY AUTHORITIES
   84. Interpretation of this Part

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                6

Section   Conditions for provision of assistance
          Other factors to consider for provision of assistance
   85.    Assistance that may be rendered
   86.    Offences under this Part
   87.    Immunities
   88.
   89.

                                        PART 7

                                      OFFENCES

90. Offences by corporations
91. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
92. Offences by officers
93. Falsification of records by officers, etc.
94. General duty to use reasonable care not to provide false

         information to Authority
95. General penalty
96. Composition of offences

                                          PART 8

                                  MISCELLANEOUS

 97. Jurisdiction of court
 98. Opportunity to be heard
 99. Power of court to make certain orders
100. General exemption
101. Codes, guidelines, etc., by Authority
102. Power of Authority to issue written notice
103. Power of Authority to make regulations
104. Publication of certain information
105. Service of documents
106. Electronic service
107. Amendment of Schedules
108. [Omitted]

                                          PART 9

            CONSEQUENTIAL AND RELATED AMENDMENTS
                                   TO OTHER ACTS

109. [Omitted]
110. [Omitted]
111. [Omitted]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
7  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

Section

  112. [Omitted]
  113. Amendment of Financial Holding Companies Act 2013
  114. to 120. [Omitted]

                                            PART 10

                   SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

   121. Interpretation of this Part
   122. Saving and transitional provisions for holders of licences under

             MCRBA and approved holders of stored value facilities under
             PSOA
   123. Saving and transitional provisions for persons granted
             exemptions under MCRBA or PSOA
   124. Pending applications for licences and renewals under MCRBA
             and pending applications for certain approvals under PSOA
   125. Saving and transitional provisions for designated payment
             systems
   126. Other saving and transitional provisions
             First Schedule — Payment services
             Second Schedule — Specified provisions

An Act to provide for the licensing and regulation of payment service
  providers, the oversight of payment systems, and connected matters
  and to make consequential and related amendments to certain other
  Acts.

                 [28 January 2020: Except sections 111, 113 and 114 ;
                                                 30 July 2020: Section 114 ;
                                                31 May 2021: Section 111 ]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title and commencement
 1.—(1) This Act is the Payment Services Act 2019.
 (2) Section 113 comes into operation on a date that the Minister
appoints by notification in the Gazette.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.        Payment Services Act 2019                          8

Interpretation

2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

“5% controller”, in relation to a corporation (being a licensee or
   an operator of a designated payment system), means a person
   that alone or together with the person’s associates —

          (a) has an interest in at least 5%, but less than 12%, of the
               shares in the corporation; or

          (b) is in a position to control at least 5%, but less than
               12%, of the votes in the corporation;

“12% controller”, in relation to a corporation (being a licensee or
   an operator of a designated payment system), means a person
   that alone or together with the person’s associates —

          (a) has an interest in at least 12%, but less than 20%, of
               the shares in the corporation; or

          (b) is in a position to control at least 12%, but less than
               20%, of the votes in the corporation;

“20% controller”, in relation to a corporation (being a licensee or
   an operator of a designated payment system), means a person
   that alone or together with the person’s associates —

          (a) has an interest in at least 20% of the shares in the
               corporation; or

          (b) is in a position to control at least 20% of the votes in
               the corporation;

“access”, in relation to a payment system, means an entitlement
   or eligibility to be a participant in the payment system;

“access regime”, in relation to a payment system, means an
   access regime imposed by the Authority under section 51 and
   that is in force;

“account issuance service” has the meaning given by Part 3 of
   the First Schedule;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
9  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

   “arrangement” includes any formal or informal scheme,
      arrangement or understanding, and any trust whether
      express or implied;

   “Authority” means the Monetary Authority of Singapore
      established under the Monetary Authority of Singapore
      Act 1970;

   “bank”, “bank in Singapore” and “banking business” have the
      meanings given by section 2(1) of the Banking Act 1970;

   “book” includes any record, register, document or other record
      of information and any account or accounting record,
      however compiled, recorded or stored, whether in written
      or printed form or on microfilm or by electronic process or
      otherwise;

   “calendar year” means a period from 1 January to 31 December
      (both dates inclusive);

   “chief executive officer”, in relation to a corporation, means a
      person (however designated) who —

   (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
        arrangement with, the corporation; and

   (b) is principally responsible for the management and
        conduct of the business of the corporation;

   “company” and “corporation” have the meanings given by
      section 4(1) of the Companies Act 1967;

   “consolidated financial statements” has the meaning given by
      section 209A of the Companies Act 1967;

   “credit card” and “charge card” have the meaning given by
      section 56 of the Banking Act 1970;

   “cross‑border money transfer service” has the meaning given by
      Part 3 of the First Schedule;

   “currency” means currency notes and coins that are legal tender
      in Singapore or a country or territory other than Singapore;

   “deposit” and “deposit‑taking business” have the meanings
      given by section 4B of the Banking Act 1970;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                10

“designated payment system” means a payment system that is
   designated by the Authority under section 42 to be a
   designated payment system for the purposes of this Act;

“digital payment token” means any digital representation of
   value (other than an excluded digital representation of value)
   that —

          (a) is expressed as a unit;

          (b) is not denominated in any currency, and is not pegged
               by its issuer to any currency;

          (c) is, or is intended to be, a medium of exchange
              accepted by the public, or a section of the public, as
              payment for goods or services or for the discharge of
              a debt;

          (d) can be transferred, stored or traded electronically;
               and

          (e) satisfies such other characteristics as the Authority
              may prescribe;

[Deleted by Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

“digital payment token account” means any account, or any
   device or facility (whether in physical or electronic form),
   that contains digital payment tokens;

                                                                        [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

“digital payment token instrument” and “digital payment token
   service” have the meanings given by Part 3 of the First
   Schedule;

                                                                        [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

“director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“domestic money transfer service” has the meaning given by
   Part 3 of the First Schedule;

“e‑money” means any electronically stored monetary value
   that —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
11  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    (a) is denominated in any currency, or pegged by its
         issuer to any currency;

    (b) has been paid for in advance to enable the making of
         payment transactions through the use of a payment
         account;

    (c) is accepted by a person other than its issuer; and

    (d) represents a claim on its issuer,

    but does not include any deposit accepted in Singapore, from
    any person in Singapore;

    “e‑money issuance service” has the meaning given by Part 3 of
       the First Schedule;

    “employee”, in relation to an employer, includes an individual
       seconded or temporarily transferred to the employer from
       another employer;

    “entity” means any body corporate or unincorporate, whether
       incorporated, formed or established in or outside Singapore;

    “excluded digital representation of value” means a digital
       representation of value that is prescribed by the Authority
       as an excluded digital representation of value;

    “executive director” means a director who is concurrently an
       executive officer;

    “executive officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any
       individual (however designated) who —

    (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
         arrangement with, the corporation; and

    (b) is concerned with or takes part in the management of
         the corporation on a day‑to‑day basis;

    “exempt payment service provider”, in respect of any payment
       service, means a person that is exempt under section 13(1)
       from the requirement under section 5(1) to have in force a
       licence that entitles the person to carry on a business of
       providing that payment service;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                12

“financial regulatory authority”, in relation to a foreign country
   or territory, means an authority of the foreign country or
   territory exercising any function that corresponds to a
   regulatory function of the Authority under this Act, the
   Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970 or any of the
   written laws set out in the Schedule to that Act;

“financial statements” has the meaning given by section 209A of
   the Companies Act 1967;

“financing business” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
   Finance Companies Act 1967;

“Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria” means the document (as
   revised from time to time) that is called by that title, issued by
   the Authority and published on the Authority’s website;

“indirect controller”, in relation to a corporation (being a
   licensee or an operator of a designated payment system) —

          (a) means any person, whether acting alone or together
               with any other person, and whether with or without
               holding shares or controlling voting power in the
               corporation —

          (i) in accordance with whose directions,
              instructions or wishes the directors of the
              corporation are accustomed or under an
              obligation, whether formal or informal, to act;
              or

          (ii) that is in a position to determine the policy of
               the corporation; but

          (b) excludes any person —

          (i) who is a director or other officer of the
              corporation and whose appointment has been
              approved by the Authority; or

          (ii) in accordance with whose directions,
               instructions or wishes the directors of the
               corporation are accustomed to act by reason

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
13  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    only that they act on advice given by the person
    in the person’s professional capacity;

    “licence” means a licence granted under section 6;

    “licensee” means a payment service provider the licence of
       which is in force;

    “limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by
       section 4(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

    “major payment institution” means a person that has in force a
       major payment institution licence granted under section 6;

    “merchant” means a person (other than an individual who is not
       required to be registered under the Business Names
       Registration Act 2014) who, in the course of the person’s
       business —

    (a) provides goods or services;

    (b) promotes the use or purchase of goods or services; or

    (c) receives, or is entitled to receive, any money or other
        consideration for providing goods or services,

    and includes any employee or agent of the person;

    “merchant acquisition service” has the meaning given by Part 3
       of the First Schedule;

    “money” includes e‑money but excludes any digital payment
       token and any excluded digital representation of value;

    “money-changing service” has the meaning given by Part 3 of
       the First Schedule;

    “operator”, in relation to a payment system, means a person that
       operates the payment system;

    “participant”, in relation to a payment system, means any person
       that is recognised in the rules of the payment system, or is
       otherwise recognised by the operator or settlement institution
       of the payment system, as being eligible to settle payments
       through the payment system with other persons that are

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                14

          similarly recognised, or to process payments through the
          payment system;

“partner”, in relation to a limited liability partnership, has the
   meaning given by section 2(1) of the Limited Liability
   Partnerships Act 2005;

“payee” means a person that is the intended recipient of money
   that is the subject of a payment transaction;

“payer” means a person that initiates, or consents to the
   initiation of, a payment order for the transfer of money;

“payment account” —

          (a) means any account, or any device or facility (whether
               in physical or electronic form), that —

          (i) is held in the name, or associated with the
              unique identifier, of any person, and is used by
              that person for the initiation of a payment order
              or the execution of a payment transaction, or
              both; or

          (ii) is held in the names, or associated with the
               unique identifiers, of 2 or more persons, and is
               used by any of those persons for the initiation
               of a payment order or the execution of a
               payment transaction, or both; and

          (b) includes a bank account, debit card, credit card or
               charge card;

“payment order” means an instruction to a payment service
   provider requesting for the execution of a payment
   transaction;

“payment service” means any service that is specified in Part 1
   of the First Schedule, but excludes any service that is
   specified in Part 2 of that Schedule;

“payment service provider” means any person that provides a
   payment service;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
15  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    “payment service user” means any person that uses a payment
       service in the capacity of a payer or a payee, or of both;

    “payment system” means a funds transfer system or other
       system that facilitates the circulation of money, and includes
       any instruments and procedures that relate to the system;

    “payment transaction” means the placing, transfer or withdrawal
       of money, whether for the purpose of paying for goods or
       services or for any other purpose, and regardless of whether
       the intended recipient of the money is entitled to the money;

    “permanent place of business”, in relation to a licensee, or an
       operator or a settlement institution of a designated payment
       system, means each fixed location in Singapore used by the
       licensee, operator or settlement institution for carrying on its
       business, regardless whether the business is carried on within
       a single building or at a single business address;

    “place of business”, in relation to a licensee, or an operator or a
       settlement institution of a designated payment system, means
       any location (including a kiosk that can be moved from one
       location to another) in Singapore used by the licensee,
       operator or settlement institution for carrying on its business;

    “prohibition order” means —

    (a) a prohibition order made under section 68(1) of the
         Financial Advisers Act 2001 as in force immediately
         before the date of commencement of
         section 200(1)(b) and (2) to (7) of the Financial
         Services and Markets Act 2022;

    (b) a prohibition order made under section 68(1) of the
         Financial Advisers Act 2001 as in force immediately
         before the date of commencement of
         section 200(1)(b) and (2) to (7) of the Financial
         Services and Markets Act 2022, and as continued by
         section 217(2) of the Financial Services and Markets
         Act 2022;

    (c) an order made under section 74(1) of the Insurance
        Act 1966 as in force immediately before the date of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                16

          commencement of section 204(1) to (4) of the
          Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

          (d) an order made under section 74(1) of the Insurance
               Act 1966 as in force immediately before the date of
               commencement of section 204(1) to (4) of the
               Financial Services and Markets Act 2022, and as
               continued by section 218(2) of the Financial Services
               and Markets Act 2022;

          (e) a prohibition order made under section 101A(1) of
              the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force
              immediately before the date of commencement of
              section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and
              (18) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

          (f) a prohibition order made under section 101A(1) of
              the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force
              immediately before the date of commencement of
              section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and
              (18) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022,
              and as continued by section 220(3) of the Financial
              Services and Markets Act 2022; or

        (g) a prohibition order made under section 7(1) of the
             Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

                                                                       [Act 18 of 2022 wef 31/07/2024]

“public authority” means —

          (a) the Government, including any ministry, department
               or agency of the Government, or an Organ of State; or

          (b) any body established or constituted by or under a
               public Act to perform or discharge any public
               function;

“registered office” means a registered office maintained under
   section 142(1) or 370(1) of the Companies Act 1967;

“regulated financial institution” means a person that carries on a
   business, the conduct of which is regulated or authorised by
   the Authority or, if it is carried on in Singapore, would be
   regulated or authorised by the Authority;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
17  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    “relevant payment system” means any of the following payment
       systems:

    (a) a payment system operated by a major payment
         institution;

    (b) a payment system operated by an exempt payment
         service provider;

    (c) a payment system operated by a person exempt under
        section 100 from having in force a licence;

    (d) a designated payment system;

    “settlement institution” means a person that provides facilities
       for —

    (a) the participants of a payment system to hold funds;
         and

    (b) the settling of transactions between the participants;

    “share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the Companies
       Act 1967 and includes an interest in a share;

    “Singapore operator” means an operator that is incorporated in
       Singapore;

    “Singapore settlement institution” means a settlement institution
       that is incorporated in Singapore;

    “specified e‑money” means any e‑money that has been issued —

    (a) to any person whom the issuer of the e‑money has
         determined, according to such criteria as the
         Authority may specify by written notice, to be
         resident in Singapore; or

    (b) in Singapore to a person whom the issuer of the
         e‑money has not determined, according to such
         criteria as the Authority may specify by written
         notice, to be resident outside Singapore;

    “standard payment institution” means a person that has in force a
       standard payment institution licence granted under section 6;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                    18

“treasury share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“unique identifier” means a combination of letters, numbers or
   symbols used by a payment service user to identify
   unambiguously either or both of the following for the
   purposes of a payment transaction:

          (a) any payment service user that is a party to the
               payment transaction;

          (b) any payment account;

“voting share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967.

(2) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

(a) a person has an interest in a share if —

          (i) the person has or is treated as having an interest in
              that share under section 7(1A), (1B), (2), (6) and (7)
              to (10) of the Companies Act 1967; or

          (ii) the person has any legal or equitable interest in that
               share, except an interest that is to be disregarded
               under section 7(9) of the Companies Act 1967;

(b) a reference to the control of a percentage of the votes in a
     corporation (being a licensee or an operator of a designated
     payment system) is a reference to the control, whether
     direct or indirect, of that percentage of the total number of
     votes that might be cast in a general meeting of the
     corporation;

          (c) a person (A) is an associate of another person (B) if —

          (i) A is the spouse, a parent, remoter lineal ancestor or
              step‑parent, a son, daughter, remoter issue, stepson
              or stepdaughter, or a brother or sister, of B;

          (ii) A is a body corporate that is, or a majority of the
               directors of which are, accustomed or under an
               obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
19  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    accordance with the directions, instructions or
    wishes of B;

    (iii) A is a person that is accustomed or under an
          obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
          accordance with the directions, instructions or
          wishes of B;

    (iv) A is a subsidiary of B;

    (v) A is a body corporate in which B, whether alone or
         together with other associates of B as described in
         sub‑paragraphs (ii), (iii) and (iv), is in a position to
         control 20% or more of the votes in A; or

    (vi) A is a person with whom B has an agreement or
         arrangement (whether oral or in writing and whether
         express or implied) to act together with respect to the
         acquisition, holding or disposal of shares or other
         interests in, or with respect to the exercise of their
         votes in relation to, the corporation (being a licensee
         or an operator of a designated payment system)
         mentioned in the definition of “5% controller”,
         “12% controller” or “20% controller”;

    (d) a person has a substantial shareholding in a corporation
         if —

    (i) the person has an interest in one or more voting
        shares (excluding treasury shares) in the corporation;
        and

    (ii) the total votes attached to that share, or those shares,
         is at least 5% of the total votes attached to all the
         voting shares (excluding treasury shares) in the
         corporation; and

    (e) a person has a substantial shareholding in a corporation,
        the share capital of which is divided into 2 or more classes
        of shares, if —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                20

          (i) the person has an interest in one or more voting
              shares (excluding treasury shares) included in one of
              those classes; and

          (ii) the total votes attached to that share, or those shares,
               is at least 5% of the total votes attached to all the
               voting shares (excluding treasury shares) included in
               that class.

 (3) In any case where the functions of the operator or settlement
institution of a payment system are assumed by or shared among 2 or
more operators or settlement institutions, a reference in this Act to the
operator or settlement institution is a reference to each such operator
or settlement institution.

 (4) For the purposes of sections 5(2) and 13(13) and paragraph 2(i)
of the First Schedule, a payment service, or the provision of a
payment service, is incidental to any other business carried on by a
person, if the payment service —

(a) is carried on, offered or provided by that person to support
     that other business; and

(b) is provided by that person in connection with the carrying
     on of that other business.

Application of Act

 3.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), this Act does not apply to any
public authority.

 (2) The Minister may by order declare that a public authority is one
to which this Act applies.

Appointment of assistants

 4.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the Authority may appoint any
person to exercise any of its powers or perform any of its functions or
duties under this Act, either generally or in any particular case,
except —

       (a) the power of appointment conferred by this subsection; and

       (b) the power to make subsidiary legislation.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
21  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

 (2) The Authority may appoint one or more of its officers to
exercise the power, under a provision of this Act specified in the
Second Schedule, to grant an exemption to a particular person, or to
revoke any such exemption.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (2A) An appointment under subsection (2) must be published in the
Gazette.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (3) Any person appointed under subsection (1) or officer appointed
under subsection (2) is taken to be a public servant for the purposes of
the Penal Code 1871.

                                    PART 2

        LICENSING OF PAYMENT SERVICE PROVIDERS

        Division 1 — Licensing of payment service providers

Licensing of payment service providers

 5.—(1) A person must not carry on a business of providing any type
of payment service in Singapore, unless the person —

       (a) has in force a licence that entitles the person to carry on a
            business of providing that type of payment service; or

       (b) is an exempt payment service provider in respect of that
            type of payment service.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), where a person provides any
type of payment service while the person carries on any business
(called in this subsection the primary business) —

       (a) the person is presumed to carry on a secondary business of
            providing that type of payment service, regardless whether
            the provision of that type of payment service is related or
            incidental to the primary business; and

       (b) the presumption in paragraph (a) is not rebutted by proof
            that the provision of that type of payment service is related
            or incidental, or is both related and incidental, to the
            primary business.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                22

 (3) A person that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
     $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
     3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
     to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
     part of a day during which the offence continues after
     conviction; or

(b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
     the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
     exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
     which the offence continues after conviction.

Application for licence

 6.—(1) A person that wishes to carry on a business of providing any
type of payment service may apply to the Authority, in such form and
manner as the Authority may require, for the appropriate licence
under this section.

 (2) The types of licences that may be applied for under
subsection (1) are as follows:

       (a) a money‑changing licence;

       (b) a standard payment institution licence;

       (c) a major payment institution licence.

 (3) A person must have in force a money‑changing licence to be
entitled to carry on a business of providing a money‑changing
service, unless the person has in force a standard payment institution
licence or major payment institution licence that entitles the person to
carry on a business of providing that service.

 (4) A person must have in force a standard payment institution
licence or a major payment institution licence to be entitled to carry
on a business of —

       (a) providing one of the following payment services:

               (i) an account issuance service;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
23  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    (ii) a domestic money transfer service;

    (iii) a cross‑border money transfer service;

    (iv) a merchant acquisition service;

    (v) an e‑money issuance service;

    (vi) a digital payment token service; or

    (b) providing 2 or more of the following payment services:

    (i) an account issuance service;

    (ii) a domestic money transfer service;

    (iii) a cross‑border money transfer service;

    (iv) a merchant acquisition service;

    (v) an e‑money issuance service;

    (vi) a digital payment token service;

    (vii) a money‑changing service.

 (5) Despite subsection (4), a licensee must have in force a major
payment institution licence if —

    (a) both of the following apply:

    (i) the licensee carries on a business of providing one or
        more of the following payment services:

    (A) an account issuance service (other than an
         e‑money account issuance service);

    (B) a domestic money transfer service;

    (C) a cross‑border money transfer service;

    (D) a merchant acquisition service;

    (E) a digital payment token service;

    (ii) the average, over a calendar year, of the total value of
         all payment transactions that are accepted, processed
         or executed by the licensee in one month exceeds —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                24

          (A) $3 million (or its equivalent in a foreign
               currency), for any one of those payment
               services; or

          (B) $6 million (or its equivalent in a foreign
               currency), for 2 or more of those payment
               services;

(b) both of the following apply:

          (i) the licensee carries on a business of providing an
              e‑money account issuance service;

          (ii) the sum of the following amounts exceeds $5 million
               (or its equivalent in a foreign currency):

          (A) the average, over a calendar year, of the total
               value in one day of all e‑money that is stored in
               any payment account issued by the licensee to
               a person whom the licensee has determined,
               according to such criteria as the Authority may
               specify by written notice, to be resident in
               Singapore;

          (B) the average, over a calendar year, of the total
               value in one day of all e‑money that is issued in
               Singapore, and is stored in any payment
               account issued by the licensee to any person
               whom the licensee has not determined,
               according to such criteria as the Authority
               may specify by written notice, to be resident
               outside Singapore; or

          (c) both of the following apply:

          (i) the licensee carries on a business of providing an
              e‑money issuance service;

          (ii) the average, over a calendar year, of the total value in
               one day of all specified e‑money that is issued by the
               licensee exceeds $5 million (or its equivalent in a
               foreign currency).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
25  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

 (6) Where any licensee mentioned in subsection (5)(a)(i), (b)(i) or
(c)(i) does not have in force a major payment institution licence on
the relevant date —

    (a) that licensee must, within the prescribed period, apply
         under section 7(1) to change that licensee’s licence to a
         major payment institution licence; and

    (b) subsection (5) does not apply to that licensee —

    (i) during the prescribed period mentioned in
        paragraph (a); and

    (ii) if that licensee complies with paragraph (a), until the
         date on which the application mentioned in that
         paragraph —

    (A) is withdrawn by the licensee; or

    (B) is approved or refused by the Authority.

 (7) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1), the
Authority may —

    (a) grant a licence to the applicant, in respect of one or more
         types of payment services, with or without conditions; or

    (b) refuse to grant a licence.

 (8) Where an applicant has applied for a money‑changing licence,
the Authority must not grant the licence to the applicant unless —

    (a) the applicant has a permanent place of business, or a
         registered office in Singapore;

    (b) the Authority —

    (i) is satisfied that the applicant is a fit and proper
        person under the Guidelines on Fit and Proper
        Criteria;

    (ii) is satisfied as to the financial condition of the
         applicant;

    (iii) is satisfied that the public interest will be served by
          the granting of the licence; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                26

          (iv) is satisfied that the applicant meets such other criteria
               for the grant of the licence as the Authority considers
               relevant; and

          (c) the application is accompanied by —

          (i) such information as the Authority may require; and

          (ii) a non‑refundable application fee of a prescribed
               amount that is payable in such manner as the
               Authority may specify.

 (9) Where an applicant has applied for a standard payment
institution licence or major payment institution licence, the
Authority must not grant the licence to the applicant unless —

(a) the applicant is a company, or is a corporation formed or
     incorporated outside Singapore;

(b) the applicant has a permanent place of business, or a
     registered office in Singapore;

          (c) an executive director of the applicant —

          (i) is a citizen or permanent resident of Singapore; or

          (ii) if the applicant satisfies such conditions as may be
               prescribed, belongs to a prescribed class of persons;

(d) the applicant satisfies such financial requirements as may
     be prescribed;

          (e) the Authority —

          (i) is satisfied that the applicant is a fit and proper
              person under the Guidelines on Fit and Proper
              Criteria;

          (ii) is satisfied as to the financial condition of the
               applicant;

          (iii) is satisfied that the public interest will be served by
                the granting of the licence; and

          (iv) is satisfied that the applicant meets such other criteria
               for the grant of the licence as the Authority considers
               relevant;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
27  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    (f) the applicant satisfies such operational requirements as the
        Authority may specify; and

    (g) the application is accompanied by —

    (i) such information as the Authority may require; and

    (ii) a non‑refundable application fee of a prescribed
         amount that is payable in such manner as the
         Authority may specify.

 (10) The Authority may at any time add to, vary or revoke any of
the conditions of a licence imposed under subsection (7)(a) or this
subsection.

 (11) The Authority must not refuse an application under
subsection (1) without giving the applicant an opportunity to be
heard.

 (12) Every standard payment institution and every major payment
institution must, while its licence is in force, satisfy —

    (a) such financial requirements as may be prescribed; and

    (b) such operational requirements and other requirements as
         the Authority may specify by written notice.

 (13) A standard payment institution or major payment institution
that fails to comply with any requirement mentioned in
subsection (12) must immediately notify the Authority of the failure.

 (14) Where a standard payment institution or major payment
institution fails to comply with any requirement under
subsection (12) —

    (a) the Authority may, by written notice to that institution, do
         either or both of the following:

    (i) restrict or suspend the operations of that institution;

    (ii) give such directions to that institution as the
         Authority considers appropriate; and

    (b) that institution must comply with that notice.

 (15) A licensee that contravenes subsection (5) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                28

(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
     $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
     3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
     to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
     part of a day during which the offence continues after
     conviction; or

(b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
     the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
     exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
     which the offence continues after conviction.

 (16) A licensee that, without reasonable cause, contravenes
subsection (12), or fails to comply with any condition imposed by
the Authority under subsection (7)(a) or (10), shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

(17) In this section —

“e‑money account issuance service” means an account issuance
   service where each payment account issued stores e‑money;

“relevant date” means —

          (a) in relation to a licensee mentioned in
               subsection (5)(a)(i), the date on which
               subsection (5)(a)(ii) first applies to that licensee;

          (b) in relation to a licensee mentioned in
               subsection (5)(b)(i), the date on which
               subsection (5)(b)(ii) first applies to that licensee; or

          (c) in relation to a licensee mentioned in
              subsection (5)(c)(i), the date on which
              subsection (5)(c)(ii) first applies to that licensee.

Variation or change of licence

 7.—(1) A licensee may apply to the Authority, in the form and
manner prescribed, for any of the following things:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
29  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    (a) a variation of the licensee’s standard payment institution
         licence or major payment institution licence by changing
         the types of payment services that the licence entitles the
         licensee to carry on a business of providing;

    (b) a change of the licensee’s money‑changing licence to a
         standard payment institution licence or a major payment
         institution licence;

    (c) a change of the licensee’s standard payment institution
        licence to a money‑changing licence or a major payment
        institution licence;

    (d) a change of the licensee’s major payment institution
         licence to a money‑changing licence or a standard
         payment institution licence.

 (2) The Authority may require an applicant to provide the Authority
with such information or documents in relation to the application as
the Authority considers necessary.

 (3) An application under subsection (1) must be accompanied by a
non‑refundable application fee of the prescribed amount that is
payable in such manner as the Authority may specify by written
notice.

 (4) The Authority may approve an application under subsection (1)
subject to such conditions or restrictions as the Authority thinks fit, or
may refuse the application.

 (5) The Authority must not refuse an application under
subsection (1) without giving the applicant an opportunity to be
heard.

Holding out as licensee, etc.

 8.—(1) A person —

       (a) must not hold the person out as carrying on a business of
            providing any type of payment service, unless the person is
            a licensee that is entitled to carry on a business of providing
            that type of payment service, an exempt payment service
            provider in respect of that type of payment service, or a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                30

          person exempt under section 100 in respect of that type of
          payment service; and

(b) must not hold the person out as a licensee, unless the
     person has in force a licence.

 (2) A person that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
     $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
     3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
     to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
     part of a day during which the offence continues after
     conviction; or

(b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
     the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
     exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
     which the offence continues after conviction.

Prohibition against solicitation

 9.—(1) A person (other than a licensee or an exempt payment
service provider), whether in Singapore or elsewhere, must not,
whether by that person or through any other person in Singapore or
elsewhere, do any of the following things:

       (a) offer to provide, or issue any advertisement containing any
            offer to provide, to the public in Singapore or any section
            of the public in Singapore, any type of payment service,
            whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

       (b) make an offer or invitation, or issue any advertisement
            containing any offer or invitation, to the public in
            Singapore or any section of the public in Singapore, to
            enter into any agreement relating to the provision by any
            person of any type of payment service, whether in
            Singapore or elsewhere.

 (2) A person that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
31  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
         $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
         3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
         to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
         part of a day during which the offence continues after
         conviction; or

    (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
         the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
         exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
         which the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) A person in Singapore (whether or not a licensee or an exempt
payment service provider) must not, on behalf of a person outside
Singapore that is not a licensee and is not an exempt payment service
provider, do any of the following things:

    (a) offer to provide, or issue any advertisement containing any
         offer to provide, to the public in Singapore or any section
         of the public in Singapore, any type of payment service,
         whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

    (b) make an offer or invitation, or issue any advertisement
         containing any offer or invitation, to the public in
         Singapore or any section of the public in Singapore, to
         enter into any agreement relating to the provision by any
         person of any type of payment service, whether in
         Singapore or elsewhere.

 (4) A person that contravenes subsection (3) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
         $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
         3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
         to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
         part of a day during which the offence continues after
         conviction; or

    (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
         the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                32

          exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
          which the offence continues after conviction.

 (5) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (3), in determining
whether an offer, invitation or advertisement is made or issued to the
public in Singapore or any section of the public in Singapore, a person
must have regard to such considerations as the Authority may
prescribe.

 (6) A person whose business is to publish, or to arrange for the
publication, of advertisements (called in this subsection the
publisher) shall not be guilty of an offence under subsection (2) or
(4) if the publisher proves that —

(a) the publisher received the advertisement for publication in
     the ordinary course of the publisher’s business;

(b) the matters contained in the advertisement were not,
     wholly or in part, devised or selected by the publisher or by
     any person under the publisher’s direction or control; and

          (c) the publisher did not know and had no reason for believing
              that the publication of the advertisement would constitute
              an offence.

Annual fees of licensees

 10.—(1) A licensee must pay to the Authority a prescribed annual
fee in such manner as the Authority may specify by written notice.

 (2) The Authority may prescribe different annual fees for different
classes of licensees, depending on the type and number of payment
services that a licensee in such a class is entitled to carry on a business
of providing, the volume of transactions accepted, processed or
executed by a licensee in such a class, and all other factors which the
Authority may consider relevant.

 (3) The Authority may, where the Authority considers it to be
appropriate in a particular case, waive, refund or remit the whole or
any part of any annual fee paid or payable to the Authority.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
33  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

Lapsing, surrender, revocation or suspension of licence

11.—(1) A licence lapses —

    (a) if the licensee (being an entity) is wound up or otherwise
         dissolved, whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

    (b) if the licensee (being an individual) dies, becomes mentally
         incapacitated or is adjudicated a bankrupt; or

    (c) upon the occurrence of such other event as may be
        prescribed.

(2) The Authority may revoke a licence if —

    (a) it appears to the Authority that any of the following
         persons is not a fit and proper person under the Guidelines
         on Fit and Proper Criteria:

    (i) the licensee;

    (ii) any officer or employee of the licensee;

    (iii) where the licensee is a partnership or limited liability
          partnership, any partner of that partnership or limited
          liability partnership;

    (iv) where the licensee is a corporation, any 5%
         controller, 12% controller, 20% controller or
         indirect controller of the licensee;

    (b) it appears to the Authority that either of the following is not
         satisfactory:

    (i) the financial standing of the licensee;

    (ii) the manner in which the licensee’s business is being
         conducted;

    (c) the licensee has contravened, or continues to contravene,
        any provision of this Act, or has failed, or continues to fail,
        to comply with any condition or restriction imposed, or any
        written notice issued, by the Authority under this Act;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                34

(d) the licensee has failed to comply with any written notice
     issued by the Authority under the Monetary Authority of
     Singapore Act 1970;

                                                                    [Act 18 of 2022 wef 28/04/2023]

(e) it appears to the Authority that the licensee has failed, or
     continues to fail, to comply with any of the licensee’s
     obligations under or arising from —

          (i) this Act; or

          (ii) any written notice issued by the Authority under this
               Act;

          (f) the licensee has provided to the Authority any information
              or document required under this Act that is false or
              misleading in a material particular;

(g) it appears to the Authority that any of the following
     persons has not performed that person’s duties under this
     Act honestly or fairly:

          (i) the licensee;

          (ii) any officer or employee of the licensee;

          (iii) where the licensee is a partnership or limited liability
                partnership, any partner of that partnership or limited
                liability partnership;

(h) it appears to the Authority that it would be contrary to the
     public interest for the licensee to continue its operations;

          (i) the licensee fails to pay the annual fee mentioned in
              section 10(1);

          (j) the licensee fails or ceases to carry on a business of
              providing any type of payment service that the licensee is
              entitled to carry on a business of providing;

          (k) the licensee fails or ceases to have an executive director
              who —

          (i) is a citizen or permanent resident of Singapore; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
35  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

              (ii) belongs to the prescribed class of persons mentioned
                   in section 6(9)(c)(ii);

                                                                               [Act 18 of 2022 wef 28/04/2023]

        (l) if any executive director of the licensee belongs to the
            prescribed class of persons mentioned in
            section 6(9)(c)(ii), the licensee does not or ceases to
            satisfy any condition mentioned in section 6(9)(c)(ii); or

                                                                               [Act 18 of 2022 wef 28/04/2023]

      (m) the licensee has failed, or continues to fail, to comply with
            any written notice issued by the Authority under the
            Financial Services and Markets Act 2022.

                                                                               [Act 18 of 2022 wef 28/04/2023]

 (3) The Authority may, if the Authority considers it desirable to do
so —

    (a) suspend the licence of a licensee for a specified period,
         instead of revoking the licence under subsection (2); and

    (b) at any time —

    (i) extend the suspension for a specified period; or

    (ii) cancel the suspension.

 (4) Except as provided in subsection (5), the Authority must not
revoke a licence under subsection (2) or suspend a licence under
subsection (3), without giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard.

 (5) The Authority may revoke or suspend a licence of a licensee,
without giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard, in any of the
following circumstances:

    (a) the licensee (being an entity) is in the course of being
         wound up or otherwise dissolved, whether in Singapore or
         elsewhere;

    (b) a receiver, a receiver and manager, a judicial manager or an
         equivalent person has been appointed, whether in
         Singapore or elsewhere, for or in respect of any property
         of the licensee;

    (c) any of the following persons has been convicted, whether
        in Singapore or elsewhere, of an offence involving fraud or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                36

          dishonesty, or of an offence the conviction for which
          involves a finding that the person convicted had acted
          fraudulently or dishonestly, whether the applicable offence
          is committed before, on or after 28 January 2020:

          (i) the licensee;

          (ii) where the licensee is a partnership or limited liability
               partnership, any partner of that partnership or limited
               liability partnership;

          (iii) where the licensee is a corporation, any director,
                5% controller, 12% controller, 20% controller or
                indirect controller of the licensee.

 (6) A licensee whose licence has lapsed, or is revoked or
suspended, must cease to carry on the business of providing any
type of payment service from the date the licence lapses, or the
revocation or suspension takes effect, as the case may be.

 (7) Despite the lapsing or revocation of a licence granted to a
person, unless the Authority otherwise directs, sections 16, 37, 72, 74,
76B and 76C continue to apply in relation to the person in respect of
matters that occurred before the lapsing or revocation of the licence.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

 (8) A person that contravenes subsection (6) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (9) A licensee may surrender the licensee’s licence by submitting to
the Authority a written notice of surrender, in such form as may be
specified by the Authority by written notice.

 (10) Any surrender, lapsing, revocation or suspension of a person’s
licence —

(a) does not avoid or affect any agreement, transaction or
     arrangement relating to the person’s business of providing
     any payment service that is entered into by the person,
     whether the agreement, transaction or arrangement was
     entered into before or after the surrender, lapsing,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
37  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    revocation, or suspension (as the case may be) of the
    licence; and

    (b) does not affect any right, obligation or liability arising
         under any such agreement, transaction or arrangement.

Appeals to Minister

 12.—(1) Any person that is aggrieved —

       (a) by the refusal of the Authority to grant a licence to the
            person; or

       (b) by the revocation or suspension of the person’s licence by
            the Authority,

may, within 30 days after having been informed by the Authority of
the refusal, revocation or suspension, appeal in writing to the
Minister, whose decision is final.

Exempt payment service providers

 13.—(1) Subject to subsection (8), the following persons are
exempt from the requirement to have in force a licence to carry on
a business of providing any payment service:

       (a) a bank licensed under the Banking Act 1970;

       (b) a merchant bank licensed under the Banking Act 1970;

       (c) a finance company licensed under the Finance Companies
            Act 1967;

       (d) a person licensed to carry on the business of issuing credit
            cards or charge cards in Singapore under section 57B of the
            Banking Act 1970;

       (e) any other person or class of persons that may be prescribed.

                                                                                                             [1/2020]

 (2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, sections 15 to 19, 20(2), (4)
and (5), 23 and 24 and Division 5 of this Part apply, with the
necessary modifications, to an exempt payment service provider
mentioned in subsection (1)(a), (b), (c) or (d) in respect of its business
of providing any relevant payment service, as if the exempt payment
service provider were a licensee.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                38

 (3) The Authority may, on the application of an exempt payment
service provider, exempt the exempt payment service provider from
complying with any of the provisions mentioned in subsection (2).

 (4) The Authority may prescribe the provisions of this Act that
apply to an exempt payment service provider mentioned in
subsection (1)(e).

 (5) An exemption granted under subsection (3) need not be
published in the Gazette.

 (6) The Authority may prescribe, or specify by written notice, the
conditions or restrictions that may be imposed on an exempt payment
service provider in respect of the carrying on of a business of
providing any type of payment service.

 (7) The Authority may at any time, by written notice, add to, vary or
revoke any of the conditions or restrictions imposed by written notice
under subsection (6) or this subsection.

 (8) The Authority may by notification in the Gazette declare that a
person mentioned in subsection (1) ceases to be exempt under that
subsection, or may withdraw an exemption granted to a person under
subsection (3), if —

(a) the person contravenes any provision of this Act, or fails to
     comply with any condition or restriction imposed on the
     person under subsection (6) or (7); or

(b) the Authority considers it necessary in the public interest.

 (9) Where the Authority makes a declaration or withdraws an
exemption under subsection (8), the Authority need not give the
affected person an opportunity to be heard.

 (10) A person that is aggrieved by a decision of the Authority to
make a declaration or withdraw an exemption under subsection (8) in
respect of the person may, within 30 days after the date of the
decision, appeal in writing to the Minister, whose decision is final.

 (11) A declaration or withdrawal of an exemption under
subsection (8) in respect of a person —

(a) does not avoid or affect any agreement, transaction or
     arrangement, relating to any payment service provided by

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
39  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    the person, whether the agreement, transaction or
    arrangement was entered into before or after the making
    of the declaration or the withdrawal of the exemption; and

    (b) does not affect any right, obligation or liability arising
         under any agreement, transaction or arrangement
         mentioned in paragraph (a).

 (12) An exempt payment service provider that contravenes any
condition or restriction imposed under subsection (6) or (7) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

(13) In this section, “relevant payment service” —

    (a) in relation to an exempt payment service provider
         mentioned in subsection (1)(a), means any of the
         following payment services:

    (i) an account issuance service that is not solely
        incidental to the conduct of any deposit‑taking
        business or banking business;

    (ii) a domestic money transfer service that is not solely
         incidental to the conduct of any deposit‑taking
         business or banking business;

    (iii) an e‑money issuance service;

    (iv) a digital payment token service;

    (b) in relation to an exempt payment service provider
         mentioned in subsection (1)(b), means any of the
         following payment services:

    (i) an account issuance service that is not solely
        incidental to the conduct of the business of
        receiving money on current or deposit account, or
        the making of advances to customers;

    (ii) a domestic money transfer service that is not solely
         incidental to the conduct of the business of receiving

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                40

          money on current or deposit account, or the making
          of advances to customers;

          (iii) an e‑money issuance service;

          (iv) a digital payment token service;

          (c) in relation to an exempt payment service provider
              mentioned in subsection (1)(c), means any of the
              following payment services:

          (i) an account issuance service that is not solely
              incidental to the conduct of financing business;

          (ii) a domestic money transfer service that is not solely
               incidental to the conduct of financing business;

          (iii) an e‑money issuance service;

          (iv) a digital payment token service; and

(d) in relation to an exempt payment service provider
     mentioned in subsection (1)(d), means any of the
     following payment services:

          (i) an account issuance service that is not solely
              incidental to the business of issuing credit cards or
              charge cards under the Banking Act 1970;

          (ii) a domestic money transfer service that is not solely
               incidental to the business of issuing credit cards or
               charge cards under the Banking Act 1970;

          (iii) a cross‑border money transfer service;

          (iv) a merchant acquisition service;

          (v) an e-money issuance service;

          (vi) a digital payment token service;

          (vii) a money‑changing service.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
41  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    Division 2 — Conduct of business

    Subdivision (1) — General

Place of business or registered office of licensee

 14.—(1) A licensee must not carry on a business of providing any
type of payment service unless the licensee has —

    (a) a permanent place of business; or

    (b) a registered office in Singapore.

 (2) A licensee must appoint at least one person to be present, on
such days and at such hours as the Authority may specify by written
notice, at the licensee’s permanent place of business or registered
office to address any queries or complaints from any payment service
user that uses any payment service provided by the licensee or is a
customer of the licensee.

 (3) A licensee must keep, or cause to be kept, at the licensee’s
permanent place of business or registered office, books of all the
licensee’s transactions in relation to any payment service provided by
the licensee.

 (4) A licensee must notify the Authority of any change in the
address of any of the following places within 7 days after the date of
that change:

    (a) the licensee’s permanent place of business or registered
         office in Singapore;

    (b) every other place of business of the licensee.

 (5) Except with the approval of the Authority under subsection (6),
a licensee must not carry on a business of providing any
money‑changing service or cross‑border money transfer service at
any place of business other than the licensee’s permanent place of
business mentioned in subsection (1).

 (6) Where a licensee wishes to carry on a business of providing any
money‑changing service or cross‑border money transfer service at
any place of business other than the licensee’s permanent place of
business mentioned in subsection (1) —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                42

(a) the licensee must, before carrying on any such business at
     that other place of business, apply in writing to the
     Authority for approval to do so; and

(b) the Authority may give its approval for the licensee to
     carry on that business at that other place of business,
     subject to such conditions as the Authority thinks fit.

 (7) The Authority may at any time add to, vary or revoke any
condition imposed under subsection (6) or this subsection.

 (8) The Authority may revoke its approval under subsection (6) if
the licensee breaches any condition imposed on the licensee under
subsection (6) or (7).

 (9) A licensee that contravenes subsection (1), (2), (3) or (5) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (10) A licensee that contravenes subsection (4) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000.

Obligation of licensee to notify Authority of certain events

 15.—(1) A licensee must notify the Authority of the occurrence of
any of the following events as soon as practicable after that
occurrence:

       (a) any civil or criminal proceeding instituted against the
            licensee, whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

       (b) any event (including an irregularity in the operations of the
            licensee) that materially impedes or impairs the operations
            of the licensee;

       (c) the licensee being or becoming, or being likely to become,
            insolvent or unable to meet any of the licensee’s financial,
            statutory, contractual or other obligations;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
43  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    (d) any disciplinary action taken against the licensee by any
         regulatory authority (other than the Authority), whether in
         Singapore or elsewhere;

    (e) any significant change to the regulatory requirements
        imposed on the licensee by any regulatory authority (other
        than the Authority), whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

    (f) any other event that the Authority may prescribe or specify
        by written notice.

 (2) A licensee must notify the Authority of the occurrence of any of
the following events within 14 days after the date of that occurrence:

    (a) any change of a director or the chief executive officer of
         the licensee, except where the licensee is required under
         section 34 to obtain the Authority’s approval to appoint the
         director or chief executive officer;

    (b) any other event that the Authority may prescribe or specify
         by written notice.

 (3) A person that contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000.

Obligation of licensee to provide information to Authority

 16.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), the Authority may, by written
notice, require any licensee, or any person acting on behalf of a
licensee, to provide to the Authority, within such period as the
Authority may specify in the notice, all such information relating to
the licensee’s business of providing any payment service as the
Authority may specify in the notice.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may, in the notice
under that subsection, require any person mentioned in that
subsection to provide —

       (a) information relating to any of the following matters:

               (i) the operations of the licensee;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                44

          (ii) the pricing of, or any other form of consideration for,
               any payment service offered or provided by the
               licensee; and

(b) such other information as the Authority may require for the
     purposes of this Act.

(3) Subject to subsection (4) —

(a) a requirement imposed by the Authority under this section
     has effect despite any obligation as to secrecy or other
     restrictions upon the disclosure of information imposed by
     any rule of law or contract; and

(b) a person that complies with a requirement imposed by the
     Authority under this section is not to be treated as being in
     breach of any restriction on the disclosure of the
     information imposed by any rule of law or contract.

 (4) Nothing in this section requires a person to disclose any
information subject to legal privilege.

 (5) A person that fails to comply with a notice under subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $12,500
     or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or
     to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
     fine not exceeding $1,250 for every day or part of a day
     during which the offence continues after conviction; or

(b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $25,000 and, in
     the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
     exceeding $2,500 for every day or part of a day during
     which the offence continues after conviction.

Obligation of licensee to submit periodic reports

 17.—(1) A licensee must submit to the Authority such reports or
returns relating to the licensee’s business in such form, manner and
frequency as the Authority may specify by written notice.

 (2) A person that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
45  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

$100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Prohibition against use of unlicensed agent

 18.—(1) A licensee must not provide any type of payment service
in Singapore through an agent, unless —

       (a) the agent has in force a licence that entitles the agent to
            carry on a business of providing that type of payment
            service; or

       (b) the agent is an exempt payment service provider in respect
            of that type of payment service.

 (2) A licensee that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Prohibition against exchanging e‑money withdrawn from
payment account for Singapore currency

 19.—(1) Where any matter mentioned in subsection (2)(a), (b) or
(c) applies, a licensee that carries on a business of providing any
account issuance service must not do any of the following things:

       (a) allow any payment service user to whom the licensee has
            issued any payment account, or provided any service
            relating to any operation required for operating a payment
            account, to withdraw e‑money from that payment account,
            and to exchange the e‑money withdrawn for Singapore
            currency, at any of the licensee’s places of business;

       (b) enter into any agreement or arrangement (whether oral or
            in writing and whether express or implied) with any entity
            that is incorporated, formed or registered in Singapore or
            that carries on any business in Singapore, being an
            agreement or arrangement that would allow any payment
            service user to whom the licensee has issued any payment
            account, or provided any service relating to any operation

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                46

          required for operating a payment account, to withdraw
          e‑money from that payment account, and to exchange the
          e‑money withdrawn for Singapore currency, in Singapore.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the matters are as follows:

(a) the licensee has determined, according to such criteria as
     the Authority may specify by written notice, that the
     payment service user is resident in Singapore;

(b) the issuer of the e‑money contained in the payment account
     has determined, according to such criteria as the Authority
     may specify by written notice, that the payment service
     user is resident in Singapore;

          (c) the e‑money contained in the payment account is issued in
              Singapore, and both of the following apply:

          (i) the licensee has not determined, according to such
              criteria as the Authority may specify by written
              notice, that the payment service user is resident
              outside Singapore;

          (ii) the issuer of the e‑money has not determined,
               according to such criteria as the Authority may
               specify by written notice, that the payment service
               user is resident outside Singapore.

 (3) A licensee that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (4) Despite subsection (1), a licensee that carries on a business of
providing an account issuance service may allow a payment service
user to whom the licensee has issued any payment account, or
provided any service relating to any operation required for operating
a payment account, to withdraw e‑money from that payment account,
and to exchange the e‑money withdrawn for Singapore currency, on
the termination of the use of that payment account by that payment
service user.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
47  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

 (5) In this section, “Singapore currency” means currency notes and
coins that are legal tender in Singapore.

Prohibition from carrying on certain businesses

 20.—(1) A licensee must not carry on a business of granting any
credit facility to any individual in Singapore.

 (2) A licensee that is entitled to and does carry on a business of
providing an e‑money issuance service —

       (a) must not lend any customer money; and

       (b) must not use any customer money, or any interest earned
            on any customer money, to finance wholly or to any
            material extent any activity of any business carried on by
            the licensee.

 (3) A licensee that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (4) A licensee that contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (5) In this section —

      “credit facility” means —

              (a) any advance, loan or other facility that is granted by a
                   licensee to a customer who is an individual, and that
                   gives the customer access to any funds or financial
                   guarantee provided by the licensee; or

              (b) any other liability that is incurred by a licensee on
                   behalf of a customer who is an individual;

      “customer money” means any money received in Singapore by a
         licensee from a person in Singapore, in exchange for which

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                48

          the licensee issues any e‑money, but does not include any of
          the following:

          (a) any money paid to the licensee to reduce the amount
               owed to the licensee by that person;

          (b) any money that is repaid by the licensee to that
               person;

          (c) any money which is paid to the licensee, or which the
              licensee has informed that person will be used, to
              defray any fee or charge imposed by the licensee for
              providing any payment service to that person;

          (d) any money that is paid to, and received by, a recipient
               in accordance with the instructions of that person;

          (e) any money paid to any other person that is entitled to
              the money.

Application of section 14 of Currency Act 1967

 21. Section 14 of the Currency Act 1967 does not apply to the issue
of e‑money.

Additional requirements in respect of licensee providing digital
payment token service

 21A.—(1) A licensee that provides a digital payment token service
must satisfy the requirements prescribed by regulations made under
section 103(1) in respect of —

       (a) the extent to which assets (including digital payment
            tokens) belonging to a customer held by the licensee may
            be commingled with other assets (including other digital
            payment tokens) held by the licensee;

       (b) the maintenance in a prescribed manner of a prescribed
            amount or percentage of the following assets:

               (i) assets (including digital payment tokens) belonging
                   to the customer held by the licensee;

              (ii) assets (including digital payment tokens) belonging
                   to the licensee;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
49  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    (iii) other assets (including digital payment tokens) held
          by the licensee;

    (c) the safeguarding of assets (including digital payment
        tokens) belonging to customers held by the licensee, in
        the event of the insolvency of the licensee;

    (d) insurance against the risk of insolvency of the licensee;

    (e) the manner in which the licensee must conduct its dealings
        with a customer for the following purposes:

    (i) safeguarding assets (including digital payment
        tokens) belonging to its customers;

    (ii) protecting data relating to its customers;

    (iii) safeguarding digital payment token instruments
          belonging to its customers;

    (f) the disclosure, to customers of the licensee, of information
        relating to the manner in which the licensee —

    (i) safeguards assets (including digital payment tokens)
        belonging to its customers;

    (ii) protects data relating to its customers; and

    (iii) safeguards digital payment token instruments
          belonging to its customers;

    (g) the monitoring of digital payment token accounts and
         assets (including digital payment tokens) belonging to
         customers held by the licensee;

    (h) the standards and processes which the licensee must
         adopt —

    (i) to safeguard assets (including digital payment
        tokens) belonging to customers held by the
        licensee, and digital payment token instruments,
        from unauthorised use; and

    (ii) to protect data relating to customers that is held by
         the licensee from unauthorised use and disclosure;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                50

          (i) the amount of digital payment tokens which can be
              contained in, or transferred out of, a digital payment
              token account;

          (j) the amount of digital payment tokens which a licensee can
              hold or transfer (whether for itself or for another person);

          (k) the exchange of digital payment tokens for Singapore
              currency;

          (l) the use of moneys collected in exchange for digital
              payment tokens for any business activity of the licensee;
              and

(m) the use of digital payment tokens for any business activity
     of the licensee.

 (2) A licensee that provides a digital payment token service must, in
respect of the service, satisfy any requirement prescribed by
regulations made under section 103(1) that the Authority considers
necessary or expedient in the interest of any of the following:

(a) the public or a section of the public;

(b) the stability of the financial system in Singapore;

          (c) the monetary policy of the Authority.

 (3) Despite section 103(3)(c) and (d), regulations made under
section 103(1) may provide that a licensee that contravenes a
requirement prescribed for the purposes of subsection (1)(a), (b), (c),
(d), (g), (h)(i), (i), (j), (k), (l) or (m) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding
$25,000 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

                                                                                 [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

             Subdivision (2) — Major payment institutions

Security

 22.—(1) Every major payment institution must maintain with the
Authority security of a prescribed amount (or its equivalent in a
foreign currency), for the due performance of the obligations of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
51  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

major payment institution to every payment service user who is a
customer of the major payment institution.

(2) The security mentioned in subsection (1) must be —

    (a) in the form of a cash deposit;

    (b) in the form of a bank guarantee that satisfies such
         requirements as the Authority may specify by written
         notice; or

    (c) in such other form as the Authority may, in any particular
        case, allow.

 (3) Where a major payment institution has surrendered its licence,
or the licence of a major payment institution has lapsed or has been
revoked, the Authority may enforce the security mentioned in
subsection (1) to the extent required to pay any sums outstanding and
claimed by payment service users who are customers of the major
payment institution.

 (4) To avoid doubt, where the security mentioned in subsection (1)
is provided in the form of a bank guarantee, the Authority may call on
the bank guarantee for the purposes of subsection (3), even though a
closure certificate required under subsection (7) has not been
submitted to the Authority.

 (5) Where a major payment institution has surrendered its licence,
or the licence of a major payment institution has lapsed or has been
revoked, the Authority must release the security mentioned in
subsection (1), or the remainder of that security, to the major payment
institution, upon the Authority —

    (a) being satisfied that there is no outstanding claim by any
         payment service user who is a customer of the major
         payment institution; and

    (b) receiving the closure certificate required under
         subsection (7).

 (6) Any security provided by a major payment institution under this
section —

    (a) is not liable to be attached, sequestered or levied upon for
         or in respect of any debt or claim whatsoever; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                52

(b) if the major payment institution is declared insolvent or is
     wound up by an order of the court — is deemed not to form
     part of the property of the major payment institution.

 (7) A major payment institution must within 45 days, or such longer
period as the Authority may allow, after the date on which the licence
of the major payment institution is surrendered, lapses or is revoked,
submit to the Authority a closure certificate issued by the auditors of
the major payment institution confirming that —

(a) all moneys received from payment service users who are
     customers of the major payment institution have been
     received by the intended recipients of those moneys; and

(b) adequate provision has been made to meet any unforeseen
     liabilities in respect of every business of the major payment
     institution that its major payment institution licence
     entitles it to carry on.

Safeguarding of money received from customer

 23.—(1) Subsection (2) applies to —

       (a) every major payment institution that carries on a business
            of providing any of the following payment services:

               (i) a domestic money transfer service;

              (ii) a cross‑border money transfer service;

             (iii) a merchant acquisition service;

       (b) any prescribed major payment institution in respect of a
            prescribed payment service (other than a payment service
            mentioned in paragraph (a)(i), (ii) or (iii)); and

       (c) any prescribed licensee (other than a major payment
            institution) in respect of a prescribed payment service.

                                                                                 [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

 (2) A major payment institution or licensee mentioned in
subsection (1) must ensure that no later than the next business day
after any relevant money is received from, or on account of, a
customer, the whole or such part, as may be prescribed, of the
relevant money, is safeguarded in one of the following manners:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
53  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    (a) by an undertaking, from a safeguarding institution, to be
         fully liable to the customer for the relevant money;

    (b) by a guarantee given by a safeguarding institution for the
         amount of the relevant money;

    (c) by depositing the relevant money in a trust account
        maintained with a safeguarding institution;

      (d) in such other manner as may be prescribed.

                                                                               [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

(3) Subsection (4) applies to —

    (a) every major payment institution that carries on a business
         of providing an e‑money issuance service;

    (b) any prescribed major payment institution in respect of a
         prescribed payment service (other than a payment service
         mentioned in paragraph (a)); and

       (c) any prescribed licensee (other than a major payment
            institution) in respect of a prescribed payment service.

                                                                                 [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

 (4) A major payment institution or licensee mentioned in
subsection (3) must ensure that from the time any relevant money
is received from, or on account of, a customer, the whole or such part,
as may be prescribed, of the relevant money is safeguarded in one of
the following manners:

    (a) by an undertaking, from a safeguarding institution, to be
         fully liable to the customer for the relevant money;

    (b) by a guarantee given by a safeguarding institution for the
         amount of the relevant money;

    (c) by depositing the relevant money in a trust account
        maintained with a safeguarding institution;

       (d) in such other manner as may be prescribed.

                                                                                 [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

 (5) The Authority may make regulations under section 103 to
provide for all or any of the following matters:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                54

(a) any matter concerning the safeguarding of relevant money
     under subsection (2) or (4) by any safeguarding institution;

(b) any matter concerning the depositing of relevant money in
     a trust account mentioned in subsection (2)(c) or (4)(c),
     including —

          (i) any matter concerning the trust governing the
              account;

          (ii) the extent (if any) to which the relevant money may
               be commingled with any other money;

          (iii) the manner in which the relevant money must be
                treated and dealt with, despite any other written law,
                on the occurrence of either or both of the following:

          (A) any event affecting the ability of the major
               payment institution or licensee to which
               subsection (2) or (4) applies to perform its
               obligations, such as in the event of the
               insolvency of the major payment institution
               or licensee;

                                                             [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

          (B) any event affecting the ability of the
               safeguarding institution to perform its
               obligations, such as in the event of the
               insolvency of the safeguarding institution; and

                (iv) the circumstances (if any) in which a major payment
                     institution or licensee to which subsection (2) or (4)
                     applies may withdraw money from the account;

                                                                                [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

          (c) any matter concerning the safeguarding of relevant money
              in any manner mentioned in subsection (2)(d) or (4)(d),
              including —

          (i) the extent (if any) to which a major payment
              institution or licensee to which subsection (2) or
              (4) applies may commingle the relevant money with
              any other money;

                                                                     [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
55  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

          (ii) the manner in which the relevant money must be
                treated and dealt with, despite any other written law,
                on the occurrence of any event affecting the ability of
                the major payment institution or licensee to which
                subsection (2) or (4) applies to perform its
                obligations, such as in the event of the insolvency
                of the major payment institution or licensee; and

                                                                          [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

          (iii) where the relevant money is safeguarded by being
                deposited in an account (other than a trust account
                mentioned in subsection (2)(c) or (4)(c)), the
                circumstances (if any) in which the major payment
                institution or licensee to which subsection (2) or (4)
                applies may withdraw any money from that account;

                                                                          [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

    (d) the obligations of a major payment institution or licensee to
         which subsection (2) or (4) applies to record and maintain a
         separate book entry for each customer, in relation to that
         customer’s relevant money and, where applicable,
         e‑money and digital payment tokens;

                                                                          [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

    (e) the obligations of a safeguarding institution that must be
         set out in a contract between a major payment institution or
         licensee to which subsection (2) or (4) applies and the
         safeguarding institution;

                                                                          [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

    (f) the form of acknowledgment that a major payment
         institution or licensee to which subsection (2) or (4)
         applies must obtain from a safeguarding institution;

                                                                          [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

    (g) the information that a major payment institution or licensee
         to which subsection (2) or (4) applies must provide to a
         safeguarding institution, including the date or time by
         which any relevant money must be safeguarded;

                                                                          [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

    (h) the manner in which a major payment institution or
         licensee to which subsection (2) or (4) applies conducts its
         dealings with a customer for the purposes of safeguarding

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                56

              the customer’s relevant money, including the disclosure of
              any information to the customer;

                                                                               [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

          (i) any other matters relating to this section.

 (6) Despite any other written law, where subsection (2)(b) or (4)(b)
applies, the proceeds of the guarantee are payable, in the event of the
insolvency of the major payment institution or licensee to which
subsection (2) or (4) applies, into a separate trust account held by the
major payment institution or licensee (as the case may be), which —

(a) must be designated in such a way as to show that it is an
     account held for the purpose of safeguarding the relevant
     money in accordance with this section; and

       (b) must be used only for holding such proceeds on trust for
            each customer that had provided the relevant money to the
            major payment institution or licensee (as the case may be).

                                                                                 [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

                                                                                 [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

 (7) All moneys deposited in an account mentioned in
subsection (2)(c), (4)(c), (5)(b) or (c)(iii) or (6) —

       (a) cannot be used for the payment of the debts of the major
            payment institution or licensee to which subsection (2) or
            (4) applies; and

                                                                                 [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

       (b) are not liable to be taken under or pursuant to an
            enforcement order or a process of any court.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (8) The Authority may, on the application of any person, by written
notice grant approval, subject to such conditions as the Authority may
specify in the notice, to any major payment institution or licensee to
which subsection (2) or (4) applies to safeguard any relevant money
in 2 or more of the manners mentioned in subsection (2)(a) to (d) or
(4)(a) to (d).

                                                                                 [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

 (9) A major payment institution or licensee to which subsection (2)
or (4) applies must notify the Authority, in such form or manner as the
Authority may specify by written notice, of —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
57  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    (a) the manner mentioned in subsection (2)(a) to (d) or (4)(a)
         to (d) that the major payment institution or licensee (as the
         case may be) has chosen to safeguard the relevant money;

                                                                          [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

    (b) the name of the safeguarding institution (if any) that will
         safeguard the relevant money in the manner mentioned in
         paragraph (a); and

       (c) any change to the manner mentioned in paragraph (a) that
            the major payment institution or licensee (as the case may
            be) has chosen to safeguard the relevant money.

                                                                                 [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

                                                                                 [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

 (10) Where the major payment institution or licensee to which
subsection (2) or (4) applies is any of the following financial
institutions, the major payment institution or licensee (as the case
may be) must not concurrently be the safeguarding institution
mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) of the applicable subsection in
relation to the relevant money received by the major payment
institution or licensee (as the case may be) under the applicable
subsection:

    (a) a bank licensed under the Banking Act 1970;

    (b) a merchant bank licensed under the Banking Act 1970;

    (c) a finance company licensed under the Finance Companies
        Act 1967;

       (d) any other financial institution that may be prescribed.

                                                                                                             [1/2020]

                                                                                 [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

 (11) A major payment institution or licensee mentioned in
subsection (1) that contravenes subsection (2), (9) or (10), or fails
to comply with any condition imposed under subsection (8), shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                 [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                58

 (12) A major payment institution or licensee mentioned in
subsection (3) that contravenes subsection (4), (9) or (10), or fails
to comply with any condition imposed under subsection (8), shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                 [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

 (13) [Deleted by Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

(14) In this section —

“business day” means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday,
   public holiday or bank holiday;

“relevant money” —

          (a) means any money —

          (i) that is received —

          (A) by a major payment institution from, or
               on account of, a customer in respect of
               any payment service mentioned in
               subsection (1)(a)(i), (ii) or (iii) or (3)(a);

          (B) by a major payment institution prescribed
               for the purposes of subsection (1)(b) or
               (3)(b) from, or on account of, a customer
               in respect of any payment service
               prescribed in respect of the major
               payment institution; or

          (C) by a licensee prescribed for the purposes
               of subsection (1)(c) or (3)(c) from, or on
               account of, a customer in respect of any
               payment service prescribed in respect of
               the licensee; and

          (ii) that the major payment institution or licensee
               (as the case may be) —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
59  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    (A) where subsections (1) and (2) apply —
         continues to hold at the end of each
         business day; or

    (B) where subsections (3) and (4) apply —
         has held at any time and (in the case of an
         e-money issuance service) has issued
         specified e‑money in exchange for; but

    (b) does not include all of the following:

    (i) any money paid to the major payment
        institution or licensee (as the case may be) to
        reduce the amount owed to the major payment
        institution or licensee (as the case may be) by a
        customer;

    (ii) any money that is repaid by the major payment
         institution or licensee (as the case may be) to a
         customer;

    (iii) any money which is paid to the major payment
          institution or licensee (as the case may be), or
          which the major payment institution or licensee
          has informed a customer will be used, to defray
          any fee or charge imposed by the major
          payment institution or licensee for providing
          any payment service to a customer;

    (iv) where a major payment institution or licensee
         carries on a business of providing a domestic
         money transfer service, a merchant acquisition
         service or an e-money issuance service, any
         money that is paid to, and received by, a
         recipient in accordance with instructions given
         by a customer of the major payment institution
         or licensee (as the case may be) to the major
         payment institution or licensee;

    (v) where a major payment institution or licensee
         carries on a business of providing a cross-
         border money transfer, any money that is paid

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                60

          by the major payment institution or licensee (as
          the case may be) in accordance with
          instructions given by a customer of the major
          payment institution or licensee (as the case may
          be) to the major payment institution or licensee,
          whether or not the recipient has received that
          money;

              (vi) any money paid to any other person that is
                    entitled to the money;

                                                                        [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

“safeguarding institution” means —

          (a) in the case of subsections (2)(a) and (4)(a) —

          (i) a bank in Singapore; or

          (ii) any other financial institution that may be
               prescribed for this sub‑paragraph;

          (b) in the case of subsections (2)(b) and (4)(b) —

          (i) a bank in Singapore; or

          (ii) any other financial institution that may be
               prescribed for this sub‑paragraph;

          (c) in the case of subsections (2)(c) and (4)(c), a person
              that the trust account mentioned in subsection (2)(c)
              or (4)(c) (as the case may be) is maintained with,
              being a person that satisfies such criteria as may be
              prescribed;

          (d) in any case where any relevant money is safeguarded
               in such manner as may be prescribed for the purposes
               of subsection (2)(d) or (4)(d), a person safeguarding
               the relevant money in that manner, being a person
               that satisfies such criteria as may be prescribed; or

          (e) in any other case, any bank in Singapore or financial
              institution mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) or any
              person mentioned in paragraph (c) or (d).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
61  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

Restrictions on personal payment account that contains
e‑money

 24.—(1) A major payment institution that carries on a business of
providing an account issuance service must —

    (a) ensure that the currency equivalent of the e‑money
         contained in a personal payment account issued by the
         major payment institution to a payment service user does
         not exceed the prescribed amount (or its equivalent in a
         foreign currency);

    (b) ensure that the total currency equivalent of the e‑money
         transferred in any period of one year, from a personal
         payment account issued by the major payment institution
         to a payment service user, other than to a personal deposit
         account that is either in the name of or designated by that
         payment service user, does not exceed the prescribed
         amount (or its equivalent in a foreign currency); and

    (c) if the major payment institution issues 2 or more personal
        payment accounts to any payment service user, ensure
        that —

    (i) the total currency equivalent of the e‑money
        contained in all personal payment accounts issued
        by the major payment institution to that payment
        service user does not exceed the prescribed amount
        (or its equivalent in a foreign currency); and

    (ii) the total currency equivalent of the e‑money
         transferred in any period of one year, from all
         personal payment accounts issued by the major
         payment institution to that payment service user,
         other than to any personal deposit account that is
         either in the name of or designated by that payment
         service user, does not exceed the prescribed amount
         (or its equivalent in a foreign currency).

 (2) In computing the total currency equivalent of the e‑money
mentioned in subsection (1)(c)(i), a major payment institution may
exclude —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                62

(a) the currency equivalent of any e-money contained in any
     small personal payment account issued by the major
     payment institution to a payment service user, if that small
     personal payment account does not have the same unique
     customer identifier as any other personal payment account
     issued by the major payment institution to that payment
     service user;

(b) the currency equivalent of any e‑money contained in any
     bearer payment account issued by the major payment
     institution to that payment service user; and

          (c) the currency equivalent of any e‑money contained in any
              other payment account, of such type as may be prescribed,
              issued by the major payment institution to that payment
              service user.

 (3) In computing the total currency equivalent mentioned in
subsection (1)(c)(ii) of the e‑money transferred, a major payment
institution —

(a) must include the currency equivalent of the e‑money
     transferred during each transfer from each personal
     payment account issued to a payment service user; but

(b) despite paragraph (a), may exclude —

          (i) the currency equivalent of any e‑money transferred
              during a transfer from a small personal payment
              account issued to a payment service user, if that
              small personal payment account does not have the
              same unique customer identifier as any other
              personal payment account issued by the major
              payment institution to that payment service user;

          (ii) the currency equivalent of any e‑money transferred
               during a transfer from any bearer payment account
               issued by the major payment institution to that
               payment service user; and

          (iii) the currency equivalent of any e‑money transferred
                during a transfer from any other payment account, of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
63  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    such type as may be prescribed, issued by the major
    payment institution to that payment service user.

 (4) A major payment institution that contravenes subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

(5) In this section —

    “bearer payment account” means a payment account the title to
       which passes upon delivery of the medium associated with
       that payment account;

    “currency equivalent”, in relation to e‑money, means the value
       of the e‑money in the currency that the e‑money is
       denominated in or pegged to;

    “personal deposit account” means a deposit account held with a
       bank in Singapore that is used as a means of executing
       payment transactions other than in the course of business;

    “personal payment account” means a payment account issued to
       a payment service user —

    (a) that is used as a means of executing payment
         transactions other than in the course of business; and

    (b) to which any of the following applies:

    (i) the major payment institution that issued the
        payment account has determined, according to
        such criteria as the Authority may specify by
        written notice, that the payment service user is
        resident in Singapore;

    (ii) the issuer of the e‑money contained in the
         payment account has determined, according to
         such criteria as the Authority may specify by
         written notice, that the payment service user is
         resident in Singapore;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                64

          (iii) the e‑money contained in the payment account
                is issued in Singapore, and both of the
                following apply:

          (A) the major payment institution that issued
               the payment account has not determined,
               according to such criteria as the Authority
               may specify by written notice, that the
               payment service user is resident outside
               Singapore;

          (B) the issuer of the e‑money contained in the
               payment account has not determined,
               according to such criteria as the
               Authority may specify by written
               notice, that the payment service user is
               resident outside Singapore;

“small personal payment account” means a personal payment
   account containing e‑money the currency equivalent of
   which does not exceed $1,000 (or its equivalent in a
   foreign currency);

“unique customer identifier” means any of the following unique
   identifiers that may be provided by a payment service user to
   a major payment institution at any time to facilitate the issue
   of a personal payment account by the major payment
   institution to the payment service user:

          (a) a national registration identity card number;

          (b) a foreign identification number;

          (c) a passport number;

          (d) an email address;

          (e) a mobile phone number;

          (f) any other unique identifier that may be prescribed.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
65  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

Powers of Authority to ensure interoperability between
payment accounts and payment system

 25.—(1) The Authority may, by written notice, direct a payment
service provider (being a major payment institution, an exempt
payment service provider or a person exempt under section 100) to do
either or both of the following in order to ensure interoperability
between any payment account or class of payment accounts issued by
the payment service provider and a payment system:

    (a) to be a participant of the payment system, on such terms
         and conditions as the Authority may consider appropriate;

    (b) to enter into an arrangement with the operator of the
         payment system.

 (2) In considering whether to issue a written notice under
subsection (1), the Authority must have regard to the following
matters:

    (a) whether ensuring interoperability between those payment
         accounts and that payment system would be in the interests
         of the public;

    (b) the interests of the current participants and operator of that
         payment system;

    (c) the interests of persons who, in the future, may be required,
        or may desire, to be participants of the payment system;

    (d) such other matters as the Authority may consider to be
         relevant.

Powers of Authority to ensure interoperability between
payment systems

 26.—(1) The Authority may, by written notice, direct a payment
service provider (being a major payment institution, an exempt
payment service provider or a person exempt under section 100) that
operates a payment system to adopt any common standard, on such
terms and conditions as the Authority may consider appropriate, in
order to ensure interoperability between different payment systems
operated by different payment service providers.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                66

 (2) In considering whether to issue a written notice under
subsection (1), the Authority must have regard to the following
matters:

(a) whether ensuring interoperability between different
     payment systems would be in the interests of the public;

(b) the interests of every payment service provider that will be
     directed to adopt the common standard;

          (c) the interests of persons who, in the future, may be required,
              or may desire, to adopt the common standard;

(d) such other matters as the Authority may consider to be
     relevant.

 (3) In this section, “common standard” means any technical
standard or set of technical standards, containing characteristics or
specifications for accepting a payment order or processing a payment
transaction on a payment system, that the Authority may specify by
written notice.

            Division 3 — Control of controllers of licensees

Application and interpretation of this Division

 27.—(1) This Division applies to —

       (a) every individual, whether or not resident in Singapore and
            whether or not a citizen of Singapore; and

       (b) every entity.

 (2) In this Division, unless the context otherwise requires, any
reference to a licensee is a reference to a licensee incorporated in
Singapore.

Control of shareholding in licensee

 28.—(1) A person must not become a 20% controller of a licensee
without first applying for and obtaining the approval of the Authority
under subsection (2).

 (2) The Authority may approve an application made by any person
under subsection (1) if the Authority is satisfied that —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
67  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    (a) having regard to the likely influence of the person, the
         licensee will or will continue to conduct its business
         prudently and comply with the provisions of this Act and
         any other written law administered by the Authority;

    (b) the person is, under the Guidelines on Fit and Proper
         Criteria, a fit and proper person to be a 20% controller of
         the licensee; and

    (c) it is in the public interest to do so.

 (3) An approval under subsection (2) may be granted to any person
subject to such conditions as the Authority may impose, including but
not limited to —

    (a) any condition restricting the person’s disposal or further
         acquisition of shares or voting power in the licensee; and

    (b) any condition restricting the person’s exercise of voting
         power in the licensee.

 (4) The Authority may at any time add to, vary or revoke any
condition that is imposed under subsection (3) or this subsection.

 (5) Any condition imposed under subsection (3) or (4) has effect
despite any provision of the Companies Act 1967 or anything
contained in the constitution of the licensee.

 (6) Where the Authority refuses an application made by any person
under subsection (1), the person must, within such period as the
Authority may specify by written notice, take such steps (as soon as
practicable after the refusal) as are necessary to cease to be a
20% controller of the licensee.

Objection to existing control of licensee

 29.—(1) The Authority may serve a written notice of objection on
any person that is, or is required to obtain or has obtained the
Authority’s approval under section 28(2) to become, a 20% controller
of a licensee, if the Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) any condition for approval under section 28(2) imposed on
            the person under section 28(3) or (4) has not been complied
            with;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                68

(b) it is not, or is no longer, in the public interest to allow the
     person to continue to be a 20% controller of the licensee;

          (c) the person has provided any false or misleading
              information or document in connection with an
              application under section 28(1);

(d) the person is no longer a fit and proper person under the
     Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria;

          (e) having regard to the likely influence of the person, the
              licensee is no longer likely to conduct its business
              prudently or to comply with the provisions of this Act; or

          (f) the Authority would not have been satisfied as to any of the
              matters specified in section 28(2) had the Authority been
              aware, at that time, of circumstances relevant to the
              person’s application under section 28(1).

 (2) Before serving a written notice of objection under
subsection (1), the Authority must, unless the Authority decides
that it is not practicable or desirable to do so —

(a) notify the person of the Authority’s intention to serve the
     written notice of objection; and

(b) specify a date by which the person may make written
     representations with regard to the proposed written notice
     of objection.

 (3) The Authority must consider any written representations that
the Authority receives before the date mentioned in subsection (2)(b),
for the purpose of determining whether to issue a written notice of
objection.

 (4) The Authority must, in any written notice of objection, specify a
reasonable period within which the person that has been served the
written notice of objection must —

(a) cease to be a 20% controller of the licensee; or

(b) comply with such direction as the Authority may make
     under section 30.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
69  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

 (5) A person that has been served a written notice of objection must
comply with that notice.

Power of Authority to issue directions for this Division

 30.—(1) If the Authority is satisfied that a person has contravened
section 28(1) or (6) or has failed to comply with any condition
imposed under section 28(3) or (4), or if the Authority has served a
written notice of objection under section 29, the Authority may, by
written notice —

       (a) direct the transfer or disposal of all or any of the shares in
            the licensee held by the person or any of the person’s
            associates (called in this section the specified shares)
            within such time or subject to such conditions as the
            Authority considers appropriate;

       (b) restrict the transfer or disposal of all or any of the specified
            shares; or

       (c) make such other direction as the Authority considers
            appropriate.

 (2) Where the Authority has issued any direction under
subsection (1)(a) or imposed any restriction under
subsection (1)(b), until a transfer or disposal is effected in
accordance with the direction or until the restriction on the transfer
or disposal is removed, as the case may be —

       (a) no voting rights may be exercised in respect of the
            specified shares, unless the Authority expressly permits
            such rights to be exercised;

       (b) no shares of the licensee may be issued or offered (whether
            by way of rights, bonus or otherwise) in respect of the
            specified shares, unless the Authority expressly permits
            such issue or offer; and

       (c) except in a liquidation of the licensee, no payment may be
            made by the licensee of any amount (whether by way of
            dividends or otherwise) in respect of the specified shares,
            unless the Authority expressly authorises such payment.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                70

 (3) Subsection (2) has effect despite any provision of the
Companies Act 1967 or anything contained in the constitution of
the licensee.

 (4) Any issue or offer of shares in contravention of
subsection (2)(b) is void, and a person to whom a direction has
been issued under subsection (1)(a) or on whom a restriction has been
imposed under subsection (1)(b) must immediately return those
shares to the licensee, upon which the licensee must return to the
person any payment received from the person in respect of those
shares.

 (5) Any payment made by a licensee in contravention of
subsection (2)(c) is void, and a person to whom a direction has
been issued under subsection (1)(a) or on whom a restriction has been
imposed under subsection (1)(b) must immediately return the
payment the person has received to the licensee.

Power of Authority to obtain information relating to this
Division

 31.—(1) The Authority may, by written notice, direct a licensee to
obtain from any of its shareholders, and to provide to the Authority,
any information relating to the shareholder that the Authority may
require for either or both of the following purposes:

       (a) ascertaining or investigating into the control of
            shareholding or voting power in the licensee;

       (b) exercising any power or function under section 28, 29, 30,
            32 or 100.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the notice in subsection (1)
may require the licensee to obtain and provide the following
information:

       (a) whether the shareholder has an interest in any share in the
            licensee as beneficial owner or as trustee;

       (b) if the shareholder holds the interest in the share as trustee,
            to indicate as far as that shareholder is able to —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
71  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    (i) the person for whom that shareholder holds the
        interest (either by name or by other particulars
        sufficient to enable that person to be identified); and

    (ii) the nature of that person’s interest.

 (3) The Authority may, by written notice, require any
shareholder (X) of a licensee, or any person (Y) that appears from
information provided to the Authority under subsection (1) or this
subsection to have an interest in any share in the licensee, to provide
to the Authority any information relating to X or Y (as the case may
be) that the Authority may require for either or both of the following
purposes:

    (a) ascertaining or investigating into the control of
         shareholding or voting power in the licensee;

    (b) exercising any power or function under section 28, 29, 30,
         32 or 100.

 (4) Without limiting subsection (3), the notice in subsection (3)
may require X or Y to provide the following information:

    (a) whether X or Y holds the interest as beneficial owner or as
         trustee;

    (b) if X or Y holds the interest as trustee, to indicate as far as X
         or Y can —

    (i) the person (Z) for whom X or Y holds the interest
        (either by name or by other particulars sufficient to
        enable Z to be identified); and

    (ii) the nature of Z’s interest;

    (c) whether any share or any voting right attached to the share
        is the subject of an agreement or arrangement described in
        section 2(2)(c)(vi), and if so, to give particulars of the
        agreement or arrangement and the parties to it.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                72

Offences, penalties and defences

32.—(1) A person that —

(a) contravenes section 28(1) or (6) or 29(5) or does any act in
     contravention of section 30(2);

(b) fails to comply with —

          (i) any written notice issued under section 30(1) or
              31(1) or (3); or

          (ii) any condition imposed under section 28(3) or (4); or

          (c) in purported compliance with a written notice issued under
              section 31(1) or (3), knowingly or recklessly provides any
              information or document that is false or misleading in a
              material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) A person convicted of an offence under subsection (1) shall be
liable on conviction —

(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
     $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
     3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
     to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
     part of a day during which the offence continues after
     conviction; or

(b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
     the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
     exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
     which the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 28(1) or (6), it is a defence for the person to
prove that —

(a) the person was not aware that the person had contravened
     section 28(1) or (6), as the case may be; and

(b) within 14 days after becoming aware of the contravention,
     the person —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
73  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    (i) notified the Authority of the contravention; and

    (ii) within such time as may be determined by the
         Authority, took such action in relation to the person’s
         shareholding or control of the voting power in the
         licensee as the Authority may direct.

 (4) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 28(1), it is also a defence for the person to
prove that, even though the person was aware of the contravention —

    (a) the contravention occurred as a result of an increase in the
         shareholding as described in section 2(2)(a) of, or in the
         voting power controlled by, any of the person’s associates
         described in section 2(2)(c)(i);

    (b) the person had no agreement or arrangement (whether oral
         or in writing and whether express or implied) with that
         associate —

    (i) with respect to the acquisition, holding or disposal of
        shares or other interests in the licensee; or

    (ii) under which the person and that associate act
         together in exercising their voting power in
         relation to the licensee; and

    (c) within 14 days after the date of the contravention, the
        person —

    (i) notified the Authority of the contravention; and

    (ii) within such time as may be determined by the
         Authority, took such action in relation to the person’s
         shareholding or control of the voting power in the
         licensee as the Authority may direct.

 (5) Except as provided in subsections (3) and (4), it is not a defence
for a person charged with an offence in respect of a contravention of
section 28(1) or (6) to prove that the person did not intend to, or did
not knowingly, contravene that provision.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.             Payment Services Act 2019                     74

Appeals to Minister

 33. Any person that is aggrieved by a decision of the Authority
under section 28, 29 or 30 may, within 30 days after receiving the
decision of the Authority, appeal in writing to the Minister, whose
decision is final.

              Division 4 — Control of officers of licensees

Approval of chief executive officer, director or partner of
licensee

 34.—(1) Subject to subsection (4) —

       (a) a licensee incorporated in Singapore must not appoint an
            individual as its chief executive officer or director;

       (b) a licensee incorporated outside Singapore must not appoint
            an individual as its chief executive officer, or its director,
            directly responsible for the whole or any part of the
            licensee’s business in Singapore;

       (c) a licensee that is a partnership or limited liability
            partnership formed in Singapore must not appoint an
            individual as its partner; and

       (d) a licensee that is a partnership or limited liability
            partnership formed outside Singapore must not appoint
            an individual as its partner directly responsible for the
            whole or any part of the licensee’s business in Singapore,

unless the licensee has applied for and obtained the approval of the
Authority under subsection (3)(b).

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must be made in the form
and manner prescribed.

 (3) Without affecting any other matter that the Authority may
consider relevant, the Authority may —

       (a) in determining whether to grant its approval under
            paragraph (b), have regard to such criteria as the
            Authority may specify by written notice to the licensee;
            and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
75  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    (b) approve or refuse the application.

 (4) Where a licensee has obtained the approval of the Authority
under subsection (3)(b) to appoint an individual as the licensee’s chief
executive officer or director, the individual may, without the approval
of the Authority, be re‑appointed as chief executive officer or director
(as the case may be) of the licensee immediately upon the expiry of
the individual’s term of appointment.

 (5) Subject to subsection (6), the Authority must not refuse a
licensee’s application under subsection (1) without giving the
licensee an opportunity to be heard.

 (6) The Authority may refuse an application under subsection (1)
for the Authority’s approval under subsection (3)(b) of an individual
without giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard, in any of the
following circumstances:

    (a) the individual has been convicted, whether in Singapore or
         elsewhere, of any of the following offences, whether the
         offence is committed before, on or after 28 January 2020:

    (i) an offence involving fraud or dishonesty;

    (ii) an offence the conviction for which involves a
         finding that the individual had acted fraudulently or
         dishonestly;

    (iii) an offence that is specified in the Third Schedule to
          the Registration of Criminals Act 1949;

    (b) the individual is an undischarged bankrupt, whether in
         Singapore or elsewhere;

    (c) the individual has had an enforcement order against the
         individual in respect of a judgment debt returned
         unsatisfied in whole or in part;

                                                                        [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

    (d) the individual has, whether in Singapore or elsewhere,
         entered into a compromise or scheme of arrangement with
         the individual’s creditors, being a compromise or scheme
         of arrangement that is still in operation;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                76

          (e) the individual has in force against the individual a
              prohibition order;

                                                                              [Act 18 of 2022 wef 31/07/2024]

          (f) the individual has been a director of, or directly concerned
              in the management of, a regulated financial institution,
              whether in Singapore or elsewhere —

          (i) that is being or has been wound up by a court; or

          (ii) the approval, authorisation, designation, recognition,
               registration or licence of which has been withdrawn,
               cancelled or revoked by the Authority or, in the case
               of a regulated financial institution in a foreign
               country or territory, by the financial regulatory
               authority in that foreign country or territory.

 (7) Where the Authority refuses an application under subsection (1)
for the Authority’s approval under subsection (3)(b), the Authority
need not give the individual who was proposed to be appointed an
opportunity to be heard.

 (8) A licensee that, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

 (9) In this section, “chief executive officer”, in relation to a licensee
incorporated outside Singapore, includes a person (however
designated) who —

(a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
     arrangement with, the licensee; and

(b) is directly responsible for the management and conduct of
     the whole or any part of the licensee’s business in
     Singapore.

Removal of chief executive officer, director or partner of
licensee

 35.—(1) Despite the provisions of any other written law, where the
Authority is satisfied that an individual appointed as chief executive
officer, director or partner of a licensee incorporated or formed in
Singapore is not a fit and proper person to act as such chief executive

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
77  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

officer, director or partner, the Authority may, by written notice,
direct the licensee to remove the individual, within such period as the
Authority may specify in the notice —

    (a) from employment with the licensee;

    (b) as director of the licensee; or

    (c) as partner of the licensee.

 (2) Without affecting any other matter that the Authority may
consider relevant, in assessing whether to direct the licensee to
remove an individual under subsection (1), the Authority may
consider whether the individual —

    (a) has been convicted, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, of
         any of the following offences, whether the offence is
         committed before, on or after 28 January 2020:

    (i) an offence involving fraud or dishonesty;

    (ii) an offence the conviction for which involves a
         finding that the individual had acted fraudulently or
         dishonestly;

    (iii) an offence that is specified in the Third Schedule to
          the Registration of Criminals Act 1949;

    (b) is an undischarged bankrupt, whether in Singapore or
         elsewhere;

    (c) has had an enforcement order against the individual in
         respect of a judgment debt returned unsatisfied in whole or
         in part;

                                                                        [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

    (d) has, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, entered into a
         compromise or scheme of arrangement with the
         individual’s creditors, being a compromise or scheme of
         arrangement that is still in operation;

    (e) has in force against the individual a prohibition order;

                                                                        [Act 18 of 2022 wef 31/07/2024]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                78

          (f) has been a director of, or directly concerned in the
              management of, a regulated financial institution, whether
              in Singapore or elsewhere —

          (i) that is being or has been wound up by a court; or

          (ii) the approval, authorisation, designation, recognition,
               registration or licence of which has been withdrawn,
               cancelled or revoked by the Authority or, in the case
               of a regulated financial institution in a foreign
               country or territory, by the financial regulatory
               authority in that foreign country or territory;

(g) has wilfully contravened, or wilfully caused the licensee to
     contravene, any provision of this Act;

(h) has, without reasonable excuse, failed to secure the
     compliance of the licensee with this Act, the Monetary
     Authority of Singapore Act 1970 or any of the written laws
     set out in the Schedule to that Act;

          (i) has failed to discharge any of the duties of the individual’s
              office or employment; or

          (j) needs to be removed in the public interest.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), before directing a licensee
incorporated or formed in Singapore to remove an individual under
subsection (1), the Authority must give both the licensee and the
individual an opportunity to be heard.

 (4) The Authority may direct a licensee incorporated or formed in
Singapore to remove an individual under subsection (1) on any of the
following grounds without giving the licensee or the individual an
opportunity to be heard:

(a) the individual is an undischarged bankrupt, whether in
     Singapore or elsewhere;

(b) the individual has been convicted, whether in Singapore or
     elsewhere, of an offence, whether committed before, on or
     after 28 January 2020 —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
79  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    (i) involving fraud or dishonesty, or the conviction for
        which involves a finding that the individual had
        acted fraudulently or dishonestly; and

    (ii) punishable with imprisonment for a term of at least
         3 months.

 (5) Without affecting the Authority’s power to impose conditions
under section 6(7)(a) or (10), the Authority may at any time, by
written notice to a licensee incorporated or formed in Singapore,
impose or vary a condition requiring the licensee to notify the
Authority of any change to any particulars (such as residence in
Singapore or elsewhere, or nature of appointment) of its chief
executive officer, director or partner that may be specified in the
notice.

 (6) A licensee incorporated or formed in Singapore that, without
reasonable excuse —

    (a) fails to comply with a written notice under subsection (1);
         or

    (b) contravenes any condition imposed under subsection (5),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $100,000.

 (7) No criminal or civil liability shall be incurred by a licensee, or
any person acting on behalf of the licensee, in respect of anything
done (including any statement made) or omitted to be done with
reasonable care and in good faith in the discharge or purported
discharge of the obligations of the licensee under this section.

Appeals to Minister

 36.—(1) A licensee incorporated or formed in Singapore that is
aggrieved by a decision of the Authority under section 34(3)(b) may,
within 30 days after receiving the decision of the Authority, appeal in
writing to the Minister, whose decision is final.

 (2) A licensee incorporated or formed in Singapore, or any chief
executive officer, director or partner of that licensee, that is aggrieved
by a written notice of the Authority under section 35(1) may, within

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                80

30 days after receiving the notice, appeal in writing to the Minister,
whose decision is final.

                      Division 5 — Audit of licensees

Auditing

 37.—(1) Despite the provisions of the Companies Act 1967, a
licensee —

       (a) must, on an annual basis and at its own expense, appoint an
            auditor; and

       (b) if for any reason its auditor ceases to be its auditor, appoint
            another auditor as soon as practicable after such cessation.

 (2) The Authority may appoint an auditor for a licensee —

       (a) if the licensee fails to appoint an auditor; or

       (b) if the Authority considers it desirable that another auditor
            should act with the auditor appointed under subsection (1).

 (3) The Authority may at any time fix the remuneration to be paid
by a licensee to an auditor appointed by the Authority under
subsection (2) for the licensee.

 (4) The duties of an auditor appointed under subsection (1) or (2)
are as follows:

       (a) to carry out, for the year in respect of which the auditor is
            appointed, an audit of the accounts of the licensee;

       (b) to carry out an audit of the transactions in relation to the
            payment services provided by the licensee, in particular, in
            respect of the licensee’s observance of the provisions of
            this Act and any of the requirements imposed under any
            other written law administered by the Authority;

       (c) to submit a report of the audit to the Authority in such form
            as may be prescribed and within such time as the Authority
            may allow;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
81  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    (d) to make a report —

    (i) in the case of a licensee incorporated in Singapore,
        on the financial statements or consolidated financial
        statements of the licensee in accordance with
        section 207 of the Companies Act 1967; or

    (ii) in the case of a licensee incorporated outside
         Singapore, on the latest annual balance sheet and
         profit and loss account of the licensee, together with
         any notes on that balance sheet and profit and loss
         account, showing the assets and liabilities and profit
         or loss arising out of the operations of the licensee in
         Singapore, that complies with section 207 of the
         Companies Act 1967.

 (5) The Authority may, by written notice to an auditor, impose all or
any of the following duties on the auditor in addition to those
provided under subsection (4), and the auditor must carry out the
duties so imposed:

    (a) a duty to submit such additional information in relation to
         the audit as the Authority considers necessary;

    (b) a duty to enlarge or extend the scope of the audit of the
         licensee’s business and affairs;

    (c) a duty to carry out any other examination, or establish any
        procedure, in relation to the audit in any particular case;

    (d) a duty to submit a report on any of the matters mentioned in
         paragraphs (b) and (c).

(6) The licensee must remunerate the auditor in respect of —

    (a) any remuneration the Authority has fixed under
         subsection (3); and

    (b) the discharge of all or any of the additional duties of the
         auditor imposed under subsection (5).

 (7) Despite any other provision of this Act or the provisions of the
Companies Act 1967, the Authority may, if the Authority is not
satisfied with the performance of any duty by the auditor of a
licensee, at any time direct the licensee to —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                82

(a) remove the auditor; and

(b) appoint another auditor.

 (8) The auditor’s report made under subsection (4)(d) must be
attached to the balance sheet and the profit and loss account, the
financial statements or the consolidated financial statements (as the
case may be) of the licensee, and a copy of the report, together with
any report under subsection (5)(d), must be submitted in writing to
the Authority.

 (9) If an auditor, in the course of performing the auditor’s duties, is
satisfied that any of the following matters has occurred, the auditor
must immediately report that matter to the Authority:

(a) there has been a serious breach or non‑observance of the
     provisions of this Act or any of the requirements imposed
     under any other written law administered by the Authority;

(b) a criminal offence involving fraud or dishonesty has been
     committed;

          (c) losses have been incurred that reduce the capital of the
              licensee by at least 50%;

(d) there is any irregularity that has or may have a material
     effect on the accounts of the licensee, including any
     irregularity that had caused a major disruption to the
     provision of any type of payment service to the customers
     of the licensee;

          (e) the auditor is unable to confirm that the claims of creditors
              of the licensee are still covered by the assets of the
              licensee.

 (10) Where an auditor or employee of the auditor discloses in good
faith to the Authority —

(a) the auditor’s or employee’s knowledge or suspicion of any
     of the matters mentioned in subsection (9); or

(b) any information or other matter on which that knowledge
     or suspicion is based,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
83  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

the disclosure is not a breach of any restriction upon the disclosure
imposed by any law, contract or rules of professional conduct, and the
auditor or employee is not liable for any loss arising out of the
disclosure or any act or omission in consequence of the disclosure.

 (11) A licensee that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (12) An auditor that contravenes subsection (5) or (9) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Powers of auditor appointed by Authority

 38.—(1) An auditor appointed by the Authority under section 37(2)
may, for the purpose of carrying out an examination or audit —

       (a) examine, on oath or affirmation, any officer or employee of
            the licensee or any other auditor of the licensee;

       (b) require any officer or employee of the licensee, or any
            other auditor of the licensee, to produce any books held by
            or on behalf of the licensee relating to the licensee’s
            business;

       (c) make copies of or take extracts from, or retain possession
            of, any books mentioned in paragraph (b) for such period
            as may be necessary to enable those books to be inspected;

       (d) employ such persons as the auditor considers necessary to
            assist the auditor in carrying out the examination or audit;
            and

       (e) authorise in writing any person employed by the auditor to
            do, in relation to the examination or audit, any act or thing
            that the auditor could do as an auditor under this
            subsection, other than the examination of a person on
            oath or affirmation.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                84

(2) An individual who, without reasonable excuse —

(a) refuses or fails to answer any question put to the
     individual; or

(b) fails to comply with any request made to the individual,

by an auditor appointed under section 37(2) or a person authorised
under subsection (1)(e), shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $12,500 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Restriction on auditor’s and employee’s right to communicate
certain matters

 39.—(1) Except as may be necessary for the carrying into effect of
the provisions of this Act or so far as may be required for the purposes
of any legal proceedings, whether civil or criminal —

       (a) an auditor appointed under section 37(1) or (2); or

       (b) any employee of such auditor,

must not disclose any information that comes to the auditor’s or
employee’s knowledge in the course of performing the auditor’s or
employee’s duties, to any person other than the Authority or, in the
case of an employee of such auditor, the auditor.

 (2) A person that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of the auditor, to a fine not exceeding $25,000;
            or

       (b) in the case of the employee, to a fine not exceeding
            $12,500.

Offence to destroy, conceal, alter, etc., records

 40.—(1) An individual who, with intent to prevent, delay or
obstruct the carrying out of any examination or audit under section 37
or 38 —

       (a) destroys, conceals or alters any book relating to the
            business of a licensee; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
85  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    (b) sends, or conspires with any other person to send, out of
         Singapore any book or asset of any description belonging
         to, in the possession of or under the control of the licensee,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (2) If, in any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is
proved that the individual charged with the offence —

    (a) destroyed, concealed or altered any book mentioned in
         subsection (1)(a); or

    (b) sent, or conspired to send, out of Singapore any book or
         asset mentioned in subsection (1)(b),

the onus of proving that, in so doing, the individual did not act with
intent to prevent, delay or obstruct the carrying out of an examination
or audit under section 37 or 38 lies on the individual.

                                    PART 3

                           PAYMENT SYSTEMS

Division 1 — Information gathering powers over payment systems

Provision of information to Authority

 41.—(1) The Authority may, by notice in the form and manner
prescribed, require any of the following persons to provide to the
Authority, within a reasonable period specified in the notice, such
information relating to a payment system as the Authority may
require:

       (a) any participant of the payment system;

       (b) any operator of the payment system, or any person acting
            on behalf of the operator;

       (c) any settlement institution of the payment system.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may in a notice
issued under that subsection require any person mentioned in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                86

paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of that subsection to provide, whether in the
form of a return to be provided on a periodic basis or otherwise —

(a) information relating to —

          (i) the operation of the payment system; and

          (ii) the pricing of, or other form of consideration for, the
               services offered by the payment system;

(b) information relating to the participation or other
     involvement of that person in the payment system; and

          (c) such other information as the Authority may require for the
              purposes of this Act.

 (3) Subject to subsection (5), any person to whom a notice is issued
under subsection (1) must comply with the notice.

 (4) A person that contravenes subsection (3) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (5) A person to whom a notice is issued under subsection (1) is not
obliged to disclose any information that the person is prohibited by
any written law from disclosing.

             Division 2 — Designation of payment systems

Power of Authority to designate payment systems

 42.—(1) The Authority may, by order in the Gazette, designate a
payment system as a designated payment system for the purposes of
this Act, if the Authority is satisfied that any of the following
considerations applies:

       (a) a disruption in the operations of the payment system
            could —

               (i) trigger, cause or transmit further disruption to
                   participants of the payment system;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
87              Payment Services Act 2019                    2020 Ed.

    (ii) trigger or cause systemic disruption to the financial
         system of Singapore; or

    (iii) affect public confidence in the payment systems of
          Singapore or the financial system of Singapore;

    (b) the payment system is widely used in Singapore or the
         operations of the payment system may have an impact on
         the operations of one or more other payment systems in
         Singapore, and the designation is necessary to ensure
         efficiency or competitiveness in any of the services
         provided by the operator of the payment system;

    (c) the designation is otherwise in the interests of the public.

(2) Any order made under subsection (1) —

    (a) must —

    (i) if the Authority is satisfied of any consideration in
        subsection (1)(a)(i), (ii) or (iii) or (c) — identify the
        operator and the settlement institution of the
        designated payment system; or

    (ii) if the Authority is satisfied of the consideration in
         subsection (1)(b) —

    (A) state that the payment system is designated
         because the Authority is satisfied of the
         consideration in subsection (1)(b); and

    (B) identify the operator of the designated payment
         system; and

    (b) continues to have effect until the order is withdrawn by the
         Authority.

 (3) Any operator or settlement institution of a payment system that
is aggrieved by a decision of the Authority to designate the payment
system as a designated payment system may, within 30 days after the
date on which the order designating the payment system is published
in the Gazette, appeal in writing to the Minister, whose decision is
final.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                88

 (4) Despite the lodging of an appeal under subsection (3), the
designation by the Authority under this section continues to have
effect pending the decision of the Minister.

 (5) The Minister may, when deciding an appeal under
subsection (3), direct the Authority to withdraw the designation of
the payment system as a designated payment system, and the
direction takes effect from the date of the Minister’s decision.

Prohibition against holding out as designated payment system

 43.—(1) A person must not hold the person out as the operator or
settlement institution of a designated payment system unless the
payment system has been designated by the Authority under
section 42.

 (2) A person that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Power of Authority to impose conditions or restrictions

 44.—(1) The Authority may, by written notice, impose on a
participant, an operator or a settlement institution of a designated
payment system such conditions or restrictions as the Authority
thinks fit.

 (2) The Authority may, at any time, by written notice to a
participant, an operator or a settlement institution of the designated
payment system, vary any condition or restriction.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (1) or (2), the conditions or
restrictions that the Authority may impose include conditions or
restrictions relating to any of the following matters:

       (a) the activities that the operator or settlement institution of
            the designated payment system may undertake;

       (b) the standards to be maintained by the operator or
            settlement institution of the designated payment system;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
89  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    (c) the requirement for the operator or settlement institution of
        the designated payment system to operate as a corporation.

 (4) A participant, operator or settlement institution of a designated
payment system that fails to comply with any condition or restriction
imposed under subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding
$10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

Withdrawal of designation of payment system

 45.—(1) The Authority may, by order in the Gazette, withdraw the
designation of any designated payment system at any time if the
Authority is of the opinion that the applicable consideration in
section 42(1)(a)(i), (ii) or (iii), (b) or (c) is no longer valid or satisfied.

 (2) The Authority must not withdraw the designation of any
designated payment system without giving the operator and the
settlement institution of that designated payment system an
opportunity to be heard.

Exemptions applicable to operator, settlement institution or
participant of payment system designated to ensure efficiency
or competitiveness

 46.—(1) Section 50, Divisions 4 to 8 of this Part, and Part 5 do not
apply to an operator of a designated payment system that is
designated only because the Authority is satisfied of the
consideration in section 42(1)(b).

 (2) Sections 44, 102 and 103, Divisions 3 to 8 of this Part, and
Parts 4 and 5 do not apply to a settlement institution of a designated
payment system that is designated only because the Authority is
satisfied of the consideration in section 42(1)(b).

 (3) Division 4 of this Part does not apply to a participant of a
designated payment system that is designated only because the
Authority is satisfied of the consideration in section 42(1)(b).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                90

Division 3 — Obligations of operators and settlement institutions of
                        designated payment systems

Obligation of operator or settlement institution to have place of
business or registered office

 47.—(1) An operator of a designated payment system, and a
settlement institution of a designated payment system, must, within
such period, after the date on which the order under section 42(1)
designating that payment system is published in the Gazette, as the
Authority may specify by written notice, establish a permanent place
of business or a registered office in Singapore.

 (2) The operator or settlement institution must appoint a person to
be present, on such days and at such hours as the Authority may
specify by written notice, at the permanent place of business or
registered office of the operator or settlement institution, to address
any queries or complaints from any customer of the operator or
settlement institution.

 (3) The operator or settlement institution must keep, or cause to be
kept, at the permanent place of business or registered office of the
operator or settlement institution, books of all the transactions of the
operator or settlement institution in relation to the designated
payment system.

 (4) The operator or settlement institution must notify the Authority
of any change in the address of any of the following places within
such period, after the date of that change, as the Authority may
specify by written notice:

(a) the permanent place of business or registered office in
     Singapore of the operator or settlement institution;

(b) every other place of business of the operator or settlement
     institution.

 (5) A person that contravenes subsection (1), (2) or (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
91  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

 (6) A person that contravenes subsection (4) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000.

Obligation of operator or settlement institution to notify
Authority of certain events

 48.—(1) An operator of a designated payment system, and a
settlement institution of a designated payment system, must notify the
Authority of the occurrence of any of the following events as soon as
practicable after that occurrence:

       (a) an intention to make a material change to the nature of the
            operating rules, settlement procedures or activities of the
            designated payment system;

       (b) an event or irregularity that impedes or prevents access to,
            or impairs the usual operations of, the designated payment
            system or its settlement operations;

       (c) any material function of the operator or settlement
            institution that is outsourced;

       (d) any civil or criminal proceeding instituted against the
            operator or settlement institution, whether in Singapore or
            elsewhere;

       (e) the operator or settlement institution being or becoming, or
            being likely to become, insolvent or unable to meet any of
            the financial, statutory, contractual or other obligations of
            the operator or settlement institution;

        (f) any disciplinary action taken against the operator or
            settlement institution by any regulatory authority (other
            than the Authority), whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

       (g) any significant change to the regulatory requirements
            imposed on the operator or settlement institution by any
            regulatory authority (other than the Authority), whether in
            Singapore or elsewhere;

       (h) any other event that the Authority may prescribe or specify
            by written notice.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                92

 (2) An operator of a designated payment system, and a settlement
institution of a designated payment system, must notify the Authority
of the occurrence of any of the following events within 14 days after
the date of that occurrence:

(a) any change of a director or the chief executive officer of
     the operator or settlement institution, except where the
     operator is required under section 65 to obtain the
     Authority’s approval to appoint the director or chief
     executive officer;

(b) any other event that the Authority may prescribe or specify
     by written notice.

 (3) A person that contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000.

Obligation of operator to submit periodic reports

 49.—(1) An operator of a designated payment system must submit
to the Authority such reports or returns in the form, manner and
frequency prescribed.

 (2) A person that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Obligation of operator to notify Authority of businesses and
acquisition of corporations

 50.—(1) An operator of a designated payment system must notify
the Authority of the occurrence of any of the following events as soon
as practicable after the occurrence of that event:

       (a) the carrying on of any business by the operator other
            than —

               (i) the business of operating a payment system;

              (ii) a business incidental to operating a payment system;
                   or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
93  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    (iii) such business or class of businesses as the Authority
          may prescribe;

    (b) the acquisition by the operator of a substantial
         shareholding in a corporation that does not carry on —

    (i) the business of operating a payment system;

    (ii) a business incidental to operating a payment system;
         or

    (iii) such business or class of businesses as the Authority
          may prescribe.

 (2) An operator of a designated payment system must, within
2 months after the date of the designation of the payment system,
notify the Authority of its substantial shareholding in a corporation
that does not carry on —

    (a) the business of operating a payment system;

    (b) a business incidental to operating a payment system; or

    (c) such business or class of businesses as the Authority may
        prescribe.

 (3) The Authority may, at any time after receiving a notification
mentioned in subsection (1) or (2), by written notice direct the
operator of the designated payment system —

    (a) where the notification relates to a matter mentioned in
         subsection (1)(a) —

    (i) to cease carrying on the firstmentioned business in
        subsection (1)(a); or

    (ii) to carry on the firstmentioned business in
         subsection (1)(a) subject to such conditions or
         restrictions as the Authority may impose, if the
         Authority is of the opinion that this is necessary for
         any of the purposes mentioned in section 102(1); or

    (b) where the notification relates to a matter mentioned in
         subsection (1)(b) or (2) —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                94

          (i) to dispose of the shareholding mentioned in
              subsection (1)(b) or (2); or

          (ii) to exercise the operator’s rights relating to such
               shareholding subject to such conditions or
               restrictions as the Authority may impose, if the
               Authority is of the opinion that this is necessary for
               any of the purposes mentioned in section 102(1).

 (4) An operator of a designated payment system, to whom the
Authority has issued a written notice under subsection (3), must
comply with the directions contained in the notice.

 (5) A person that contravenes subsection (1), (2) or (4) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

                        Division 4 — Access regime

Power of Authority to impose access regime

 51.—(1) The Authority may, by order in the Gazette, impose an
access regime in respect of a relevant payment system on one or more
of the following persons or classes of persons, on such terms and
conditions as the Authority may consider appropriate:

       (a) a participant or class of participants of that payment
            system;

       (b) an operator, or a class of operators, of that payment system;

       (c) a settlement institution or class of settlement institutions of
            that payment system;

       (d) any other person or class of persons that determines access
            to that payment system.

 (2) In considering whether to impose an access regime under
subsection (1) in respect of a relevant payment system, the Authority
must have regard to the following matters:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
95  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

    (a) whether the imposition of that access regime would be in
         the interests of the public;

    (b) the interests of the current participants, operator and
         settlement institution of that payment system;

    (c) the interests of persons who, in the future, may require or
        desire access to that payment system;

    (d) such other matters as the Authority may consider to be
         relevant.

 (3) The Authority, in imposing an access regime under
subsection (1), must ensure that the access regime is fair and not
discriminatory.

Variation of access regime

 52.—(1) The Authority may, by order in the Gazette, vary an access
regime that has been imposed under section 51 in respect of a relevant
payment system, on such terms and conditions as the Authority may
consider appropriate.

 (2) In considering whether to vary under subsection (1) an access
regime in respect of a relevant payment system, the Authority must
have regard to the following matters:

       (a) whether the variation of that access regime would be in the
            interests of the public;

       (b) the interests of the current participants, operator and
            settlement institution of that payment system;

       (c) the interests of persons who, in the future, may require or
            desire access to that payment system;

       (d) such other matters as the Authority may consider to be
            relevant.

Cessation and revocation of access regime

 53.—(1) An access regime in respect of a relevant payment system
ceases to be in force if —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                96

(a) the order imposing or varying the access regime under
     section 51(1) or 52(1) (as the case may be) provides for an
     expiry date, and that date is reached;

(b) the Authority revokes the access regime under
     subsection (2); or

          (c) the payment system concerned ceases to exist or operate,
              or ceases to be a relevant payment system.

 (2) The Authority may, by order in the Gazette, revoke an access
regime if the Authority considers it appropriate to do so.

 (3) In considering whether to revoke under subsection (2) an access
regime in respect of a relevant payment system, the Authority must
have regard to the following matters:

(a) whether the revocation of that access regime would be in
     the interests of the public;

(b) the interests of the current participants, operator and
     settlement institution of that payment system;

          (c) the interests of persons who, in the future, may require or
              desire access to that payment system;

(d) such other matters as the Authority may consider to be
     relevant.

Right to apply to General Division of High Court in respect of
access regime

 54.—(1) If a person has been denied access to a payment system by
any participant, operator, settlement institution or other person that
determines access to the payment system, in contravention of a term
or condition of the access regime imposed under section 51(1) or
52(1), the person denied access may apply to the General Division of
the High Court for an order under subsection (3).

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) An applicant for an order under subsection (1) must give to the
Authority a written notice of the application together with a copy of
the application, and the Authority may apply to the General Division
of the High Court to be joined as a party to the proceedings.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
97  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

 (3) If the General Division of the High Court is satisfied that any
participant, operator, settlement institution or other person that
determines access to a payment system has contravened a term or
condition of the access regime, the General Division of the High
Court may —

    (a) order that participant, operator, settlement institution or
         other person to comply with that term or condition of the
         access regime;

    (b) order that participant, operator, settlement institution or
         other person to compensate any person that has suffered
         loss or damage as a result of the contravention; or

       (c) make such other order as the General Division of the High
            Court thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (4) The General Division of the High Court may, on an application
by any person that has a sufficient interest or on its own motion,
discharge or vary any order made under this section, but must not
discharge or vary that order unless the Authority has a reasonable
opportunity to make representations to the General Division of the
High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

              Division 5 — Voluntary transfer of business

Interpretation of this Division

 55. In this Division, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “business” includes affairs, property, right, obligation and
         liability;

      “Court” means the General Division of the High Court;

      “debenture” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
         Companies Act 1967;

      “property” includes property, right and power of every
         description;

      “Registrar of Companies” means the Registrar of Companies
         appointed under the Companies Act 1967 and includes any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                98

          Deputy or Assistant Registrar of Companies appointed under
          that Act;

“transferee” means a person that is carrying on, or that intends to
   carry on, in Singapore the usual business of an operator or a
   settlement institution of a designated payment system, to
   which the whole or any part of a transferor’s business is, is to
   be or is proposed to be transferred under section 56(1);

“transferor” means an operator or a settlement institution of a
   designated payment system the whole or any part of the
   business of which is, is to be, or is proposed to be transferred
   under section 56(1).

                                                                   [40/2019]

Voluntary transfer of business

 56.—(1) A transferor may transfer the whole or any part of its
business (including any business that is not the usual business of an
operator or a settlement institution of a designated payment system)
to a transferee, if —

       (a) the Authority has consented to the transfer;

       (b) the transfer involves the whole or any part of the business
            of the transferor that is the usual business of an operator or
            a settlement institution of a designated payment system;
            and

       (c) the Court has approved the transfer.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to the transfer, by an operator or a
settlement institution of a designated payment system, of the whole or
any part of the business of that operator or settlement institution under
any other law.

 (3) The Authority may consent to a transfer under subsection (1)(a)
if the Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) the transferee is a fit and proper person under the
            Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria; and

       (b) the transferee will conduct the business of the transferor
            prudently and comply with the provisions of this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
99  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

 (4) The Authority may at any time appoint one or more persons to
perform an independent assessment of, and provide a report on, the
proposed transfer of a transferor’s business (or any part of that
business) under subsection (1).

 (5) The remuneration and expenses of any person appointed under
subsection (4) must be paid by the transferor and the transferee jointly
and severally.

 (6) The Authority must serve a copy of any report provided under
subsection (4) on the transferor and the transferee.

 (7) The Authority may require a person to provide, within the
period and in the manner specified by the Authority, any information
or document that the Authority may reasonably require for the
discharge of the Authority’s duties or functions, or the exercise of the
Authority’s powers, under this section and section 57.

(8) A person that —

    (a) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with any
         requirement under subsection (7); or

    (b) in purported compliance with any requirement under
         subsection (7), knowingly or recklessly provides any
         information or document that is false or misleading in a
         material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

 (9) Where a person claims, before providing the Authority with any
information or document that the person is required to provide under
subsection (7), that the information or document might tend to
incriminate the person, the information or document is not admissible
in evidence against the person in criminal proceedings other than
proceedings under subsection (8).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                100

Approval of transfer

 57.—(1) A transferor must apply to the Court for its approval of the
transfer of the whole or any part of the business of the transferor to the
transferee under section 56(1).

(2) Before making an application under subsection (1) —

(a) the transferor must lodge with the Authority a report
     setting out such details of the transfer and provide such
     supporting documents as the Authority may specify by
     written notice;

(b) the transferor must obtain the consent of the Authority
     under section 56(1)(a);

          (c) the transferor and the transferee must, if they intend to
              serve on their respective customers a summary of the
              transfer, obtain the Authority’s approval of the summary;

(d) the transferor must, at least 15 days before the application
     is made but not earlier than one month after the report
     mentioned in paragraph (a) is lodged with the Authority,
     publish in the Gazette, and in such newspaper or
     newspapers as the Authority may determine, a notice of
     the transferor’s intention to make the application and
     containing such other particulars as may be prescribed;

          (e) the transferor and the transferee must keep at their
              respective offices in Singapore, for inspection by any
              person that may be affected by the transfer, a copy of the
              report mentioned in paragraph (a) for a period of 15 days
              after the publication of the notice mentioned in
              paragraph (d) in the Gazette; and

          (f) unless the Court directs otherwise, the transferor and the
              transferee must serve on their respective customers
              affected by the transfer, at least 15 days before the
              application is made, a copy of the report mentioned in
              paragraph (a) or a summary of the transfer approved by the
              Authority under paragraph (c).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
101  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

 (3) The Authority and any person that, in the opinion of the Court,
is likely to be affected by the transfer —

     (a) has the right to appear before and be heard by the Court in
          any proceedings relating to the transfer; and

     (b) may make any application to the Court in relation to the
          transfer.

 (4) The Court must not approve the transfer if the Authority has not
consented under section 56(1)(a) to the transfer.

 (5) The Court may, after taking into consideration the views (if any)
of the Authority on the transfer —

     (a) approve the transfer without modification or subject to any
          modification agreed to by the transferor and the transferee;
          or

     (b) refuse to approve the transfer.

 (6) If the transferee is not identified under section 42(2) as the
operator or settlement institution of the designated payment system,
the Court may approve the transfer on terms that the transfer is to take
effect only in the event of the transferee being so identified.

 (7) The Court may by the order approving the transfer or by any
subsequent order provide for all or any of the following matters:

     (a) the transfer to the transferee of the whole or any part of the
          business of the transferor;

     (b) the allotment or appropriation by the transferee of any
          share, debenture, policy or other interest in the transferee
          which under the transfer is to be allotted or appropriated by
          the transferee to or for any person;

     (c) the continuation by (or against) the transferee of any legal
         proceedings pending by (or against) the transferor;

     (d) the dissolution, without winding up, of the transferor;

     (e) the provisions to be made for persons affected by the
         transfer;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                102

          (f) such incidental, consequential and supplementary matters
              as are, in the opinion of the Court, necessary to secure that
              the transfer is fully effective.

(8) Any order under subsection (7) may —

(a) provide for the transfer of any business, whether or not the
     transferor otherwise has the capacity to effect the transfer
     in question;

(b) make provision in relation to any property which is held by
     the transferor as trustee; and

          (c) make provision as to any future or contingent right or
              liability of the transferor, including provision as to the
              construction of any instrument under which any such right
              or liability may arise.

 (9) Subject to subsection (10), where an order made under
subsection (7) provides for the transfer to the transferee of the
whole or any part of the transferor’s business, then by virtue of the
order the business (or part of the business) of the transferor specified
in the order must be transferred to and vest in the transferee, free in
the case of any particular property (if the order so directs) from any
charge which by virtue of the transfer is to cease to have effect.

 (10) No order under subsection (7) has any effect or operation in
transferring or otherwise vesting land in Singapore until the
appropriate entries are made with respect to the transfer or vesting
of that land by the appropriate authority.

 (11) If any business specified in an order under subsection (7) is
governed by the law of any foreign country or territory, the Court may
order the transferor to take all necessary steps for securing that the
transfer of the business to the transferee is fully effective under the
law of that country or territory.

 (12) Where an order is made under this section, the transferor and
the transferee must each lodge within 7 days after the order is
made —

(a) a copy of the order with the Registrar of Companies and
     with the Authority; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
103  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     (b) where the order relates to land in Singapore, an office copy
          of the order with the appropriate authority concerned with
          the registration or recording of dealings in that land.

 (13) A transferor or transferee that contravenes subsection (12), and
every officer of the transferor or transferee (as the case may be) who
fails to take all reasonable steps to secure compliance by the
transferor or transferee (as the case may be) with that subsection,
shall each be guilty of an offence and shall each be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $200 for every day
or part of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

   Division 6 — Control of controllers of operators of designated
                               payment systems

Application and interpretation of this Division
 58.—(1) This Division applies to —
       (a) every individual, whether or not resident in Singapore and
            whether or not a citizen of Singapore; and
       (b) every entity.
 (2) In this Division, unless the context otherwise requires —
       (a) any reference to an operator is a reference to an operator of
            a designated payment system; and
       (b) any reference to a Singapore operator is a reference to a
            Singapore operator of a designated payment system.

Control of shareholding in operator
 59.—(1) A person must not become —
       (a) a 5% controller;
       (b) a 12% controller;
       (c) a 20% controller; or
       (d) an indirect controller,

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                104

of an operator without first applying for and obtaining the approval of
the Authority under subsection (3).

 (2) A person must not enter into any agreement or arrangement
(whether oral or in writing and whether express or implied) to act
together with any other person with respect to the acquisition, holding
or disposal of, or the exercise of rights in relation to, their interests in
voting shares of an aggregate of 5% or more of the total votes
attached to all voting shares in an operator, without first applying for
and obtaining the approval of the Authority under subsection (3).

 (3) The Authority may approve an application made by any person
under subsection (1) or (2) if the Authority is satisfied that —

(a) having regard to the likely influence of the person, the
     operator will or will continue to conduct its business
     prudently and comply with the provisions of this Act;

(b) in the case of an application made under subsection (1), the
     person is, under the Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria, a
     fit and proper person to be a 5% controller, a 12%
     controller, a 20% controller or an indirect controller (as the
     case may be) of the operator;

          (c) in the case of an application made under subsection (2), the
              person is, under the Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria, a
              fit and proper person to be a party to the agreement or
              arrangement; and

(d) it is in the public interest to do so.

 (4) An approval under subsection (3) may be granted to any person
subject to such conditions as the Authority may impose, including but
not limited to —

(a) any condition restricting the person’s disposal or further
     acquisition of shares or voting power in the operator; and

(b) any condition restricting the person’s exercise of voting
     power in the operator.

 (5) The Authority may at any time add to, vary or revoke any
condition that is imposed under subsection (4) or this subsection.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
105  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

 (6) Any condition imposed under subsection (4) or (5) has effect
despite any provision of the Companies Act 1967 or anything
contained in the constitution of the operator.

 (7) Where the Authority refuses an application made by any person
under subsection (1) or (2), the person must, within such period as the
Authority may specify by written notice, take such steps (as soon as
practicable after the refusal) as are necessary —

     (a) in the case of an application under subsection (1) for
          approval to be a 5% controller or a 12% controller of an
          operator, to cease to be a 5% controller or a 12% controller
          (as the case may be) of the operator;

     (b) in the case of an application under subsection (1) for
          approval to be a 20% controller or an indirect controller of
          an operator, to cease to be a 20% controller or an indirect
          controller (as the case may be) of the operator; or

     (c) in the case of an application made under subsection (2), to
         cease to be a party to the agreement or arrangement.

Objection to existing control of operator

 60.—(1) The Authority may serve a written notice of objection on
any person that is a 5% controller, a 12% controller, a 20% controller
or an indirect controller of an operator, or is required to obtain or has
obtained the Authority’s approval under section 59(3) of an
application made under section 59(1) or (2), if the Authority is
satisfied that —

       (a) any condition for that approval imposed on the person
            under section 59(4) or (5) has not been complied with;

       (b) it is no longer in the public interest to allow the person to
            continue to be —

               (i) a 5% controller, a 12% controller, a 20% controller or
                   an indirect controller (as the case may be) of the
                   operator; or

              (ii) in the case of an approval of an application under
                   section 59(2) — a party to the agreement or
                   arrangement described in section 59(2);

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                106

          (c) the person has provided any false or misleading
              information or document in connection with an
              application under section 59(1) or (2);

(d) the person is no longer a fit and proper person under the
     Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria;

          (e) having regard to the likely influence of the person, the
              operator is no longer likely to conduct its business
              prudently or to comply with the provisions of this Act; or

          (f) the Authority would not have been satisfied as to any of the
              matters specified in section 59(3) had the Authority been
              aware, at that time, of circumstances relevant to the
              person’s application under section 59(1) or (2).

 (2) Before serving a written notice of objection under
subsection (1), the Authority must, unless the Authority decides
that it is not practicable or desirable to do so —

(a) notify the person of the Authority’s intention to serve the
     written notice of objection; and

(b) specify a date by which the person may make written
     representations with regard to the proposed written notice
     of objection.

 (3) The Authority must consider any written representations that
the Authority receives before the date mentioned in subsection (2)(b),
for the purpose of determining whether to issue a written notice of
objection.

 (4) The Authority must, in any written notice of objection, specify a
reasonable period within which the person that has been served the
written notice of objection must —

(a) cease to be a 5% controller, a 12% controller, a
     20% controller or an indirect controller (as the case may
     be) of the operator;

(b) if the person had made an application under
     section 59(2) — take such steps as are necessary to
     cease to be a party to the agreement or arrangement
     described in section 59(2); or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
107  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     (c) comply with such direction as the Authority may make
         under section 61.

 (5) A person that has been served with a written notice of objection
must comply with that notice.

Power of Authority to issue directions for this Division

 61.—(1) If the Authority is satisfied that a person has contravened
section 59(1), (2) or (7) or has failed to comply with any condition
imposed under section 59(4) or (5), or if the Authority has served a
written notice of objection under section 60, the Authority may, by
written notice —

       (a) direct the transfer or disposal of all or any of the shares in
            the operator held by the person or any of the person’s
            associates (called in this section the specified shares)
            within such time or subject to such conditions as the
            Authority considers appropriate;

       (b) restrict the transfer or disposal of all or any of the specified
            shares; or

       (c) make such other direction as the Authority considers
            appropriate.

 (2) Where the Authority has issued any direction under
subsection (1)(a) or imposed any restriction under
subsection (1)(b), until a transfer or disposal is effected in
accordance with the direction or until the restriction on the transfer
or disposal is removed, as the case may be —

       (a) no voting rights may be exercised in respect of the
            specified shares, unless the Authority expressly permits
            such rights to be exercised;

       (b) no shares of the operator may be issued or offered (whether
            by way of rights, bonus or otherwise) in respect of the
            specified shares, unless the Authority expressly permits
            such issue or offer; and

       (c) except in a liquidation of the operator, no payment may be
            made by the operator of any amount (whether by way of

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                108

          dividends or otherwise) in respect of the specified shares,
          unless the Authority expressly authorises such payment.

 (3) Subsection (2) has effect despite any provision of the
Companies Act 1967 or anything contained in the constitution of
the operator.

 (4) Any issue or offer of shares in contravention of
subsection (2)(b) is void, and a person to whom a direction has
been issued under subsection (1)(a) or on whom a restriction has been
imposed under subsection (1)(b) must immediately return those
shares to the operator, upon which the operator must return to the
person any payment received from the person in respect of those
shares.

 (5) Any payment made by an operator in contravention of
subsection (2)(c) is void, and a person to whom a direction has
been issued under subsection (1)(a) or on whom a restriction has been
imposed under subsection (1)(b) must immediately return the
payment the person has received to the operator.

Power of Authority to obtain information relating to this
Division

 62.—(1) The Authority may, by written notice, direct an operator to
obtain from any of its shareholders, and to provide to the Authority,
any information relating to the shareholder that the Authority may
require for either or both of the following purposes:

       (a) ascertaining or investigating into the control of
            shareholding or voting power in the operator;

       (b) exercising any power or function under section 59, 60, 61,
            63 or 100.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the notice in subsection (1)
may require the operator to obtain and provide the following
information:

       (a) whether the shareholder has an interest in any share in the
            operator as beneficial owner or as trustee;

       (b) if the shareholder holds the interest in the share as trustee,
            to indicate as far as that shareholder is able to —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
109  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     (i) the person for whom that shareholder holds the
         interest (either by name or by other particulars
         sufficient to enable that person to be identified); and

     (ii) the nature of that person’s interest.

 (3) The Authority may, by written notice, require any
shareholder (X) of an operator, or any person (Y) that appears from
information provided to the Authority under subsection (1) or this
subsection to have an interest in any share in the operator, to provide
to the Authority any information relating to X or Y (as the case may
be) that the Authority may require for either or both of the following
purposes:

     (a) ascertaining or investigating into the control of
          shareholding or voting power in the operator;

     (b) exercising any power or function under section 59, 60, 61,
          63 or 100.

 (4) Without limiting subsection (3), the notice in subsection (3)
may require X or Y to provide the following information:

     (a) whether X or Y holds the interest as beneficial owner or as
          trustee;

     (b) if X or Y holds the interest as trustee, to indicate as far as X
          or Y can —

     (i) the person (Z) for whom X or Y holds the interest
         (either by name or by other particulars sufficient to
         enable Z to be identified); and

     (ii) the nature of Z’s interest;

     (c) whether any share or any voting right attached to the share
         is the subject of an agreement or arrangement described in
         section 2(2)(c)(vi) or 59(2), and if so, to give particulars of
         the agreement or arrangement and the parties to it.

Offences, penalties and defences

 63.—(1) A person that contravenes section 59(1)(a) or (b), (2) or
(7)(a) or (c) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                110

(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
     $125,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
     further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or part of
     a day during which the offence continues after conviction;
     or

(b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
     the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
     exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
     which the offence continues after conviction.

(2) A person that —

(a) contravenes section 59(1)(c) or (d) or (7)(b) or 60(5) or
     does any act in contravention of section 61(2);

(b) fails to comply with —

          (i) any written notice issued under section 61(1) or
              62(1) or (3); or

          (ii) any condition imposed under section 59(4) or (5); or

          (c) in purported compliance with a written notice issued under
              section 62(1) or (3), knowingly or recklessly provides any
              information or document that is false or misleading in a
              material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (3) A person convicted of an offence under subsection (2) shall be
liable on conviction —

(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
     $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
     3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
     to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
     part of a day during which the offence continues after
     conviction; or

(b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
     the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
     exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
     which the offence continues after conviction.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
111  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

 (4) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 59(1), (2) or (7) in relation to an operator, it
is a defence for the person to prove that —

     (a) the person was not aware that the person had contravened
          section 59(1), (2) or (7), as the case may be; and

     (b) within 14 days after becoming aware of the contravention,
          the person —

     (i) notified the Authority of the contravention; and

     (ii) within such time as may be determined by the
          Authority, took such action in relation to the person’s
          shareholding or control of the voting power in the
          operator as the Authority may direct.

 (5) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 59(1) in relation to an operator, it is also a
defence for the person to prove that, even though the person was
aware of the contravention —

     (a) the contravention occurred as a result of an increase in the
          shareholding as described in section 2(2)(a) of, or in the
          voting power controlled by, any of the person’s associates
          described in section 2(2)(c)(i);

     (b) the person had no agreement or arrangement (whether oral
          or in writing and whether express or implied) with that
          associate —

     (i) with respect to the acquisition, holding or disposal of
         shares or other interests in the operator; or

     (ii) under which the person and that associate act
          together in exercising their voting power in
          relation to the operator; and

     (c) within 14 days after the date of the contravention, the
         person —

     (i) notified the Authority of the contravention; and

     (ii) within such time as may be determined by the
          Authority, took such action in relation to the person’s

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                112

          shareholding or control of the voting power in the
          operator as the Authority may direct.

 (6) Except as provided in subsections (4) and (5), it is not a defence
for a person charged with an offence in respect of a contravention of
section 59(1), (2) or (7) to prove that the person did not intend to, or
did not knowingly, contravene that provision.

Appeals to Minister

 64. Any person that is aggrieved by a decision of the Authority
under section 59, 60 or 61 may, within 30 days after receiving the
decision of the Authority, appeal in writing to the Minister, whose
decision is final.

    Division 7 — Control of officers of operators and settlement
               institutions of designated payment systems

Approval of chief executive officer or director of operator

 65.—(1) Subject to subsection (4) —

       (a) a Singapore operator of a designated payment system must
            not appoint an individual as its chief executive officer or
            director; and

       (b) any other operator of a designated payment system must
            not appoint an individual as its chief executive officer, or
            director, directly responsible for the whole or any part of
            that operator’s business in Singapore,

unless that operator has applied for and obtained the approval of the
Authority under subsection (3)(b).

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must be made in the form
and manner prescribed.

 (3) Without affecting any other matter that the Authority may
consider relevant, the Authority may —

       (a) in determining whether to grant its approval under
            paragraph (b), have regard to such criteria as may be
            prescribed; and

       (b) approve or refuse the application.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
113  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

 (4) Where an operator has obtained the approval of the Authority
under subsection (3)(b) to appoint an individual as the operator’s
chief executive officer or director, the individual may, without the
approval of the Authority, be re‑appointed as chief executive officer
or director (as the case may be) of the operator immediately upon the
expiry of the individual’s term of appointment.

 (5) Subject to subsection (6), the Authority must not refuse an
application for approval of an individual under subsection (1) without
giving the operator an opportunity to be heard.

 (6) The Authority may refuse an application under subsection (1)
for the Authority’s approval under subsection (3)(b) of an individual
without giving the operator an opportunity to be heard, in any of the
following circumstances:

     (a) the individual has been convicted, whether in Singapore or
          elsewhere, of any of the following offences, whether the
          offence is committed before, on or after 28 January 2020:

     (i) an offence involving fraud or dishonesty;

     (ii) an offence the conviction for which involves a
          finding that the individual had acted fraudulently or
          dishonestly;

     (iii) an offence that is specified in the Third Schedule to
           the Registration of Criminals Act 1949;

     (b) the individual is an undischarged bankrupt, whether in
          Singapore or elsewhere;

     (c) the individual has had an enforcement order against the
          individual in respect of a judgment debt returned
          unsatisfied in whole or in part;

                                                                         [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

     (d) the individual has, whether in Singapore or elsewhere,
          entered into a compromise or scheme of arrangement with
          the individual’s creditors, being a compromise or scheme
          of arrangement that is still in operation;

     (e) the individual has in force against the individual a
         prohibition order;

                                                                         [Act 18 of 2022 wef 31/07/2024]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                114

          (f) the individual has been a director of, or directly concerned
              in the management of, a regulated financial institution,
              whether in Singapore or elsewhere —

          (i) that is being or has been wound up by a court; or

          (ii) the approval, authorisation, designation, recognition,
               registration or licence of which has been withdrawn,
               cancelled or revoked by the Authority or, in the case
               of a regulated financial institution in a foreign
               country or territory, by the financial regulatory
               authority in that foreign country or territory.

 (7) Where the Authority refuses an application under subsection (1)
for the Authority’s approval under subsection (3)(b), the Authority
need not give the individual who was proposed to be appointed an
opportunity to be heard.

 (8) An operator of a designated payment system must, as soon as
practicable, give written notice to the Authority of the resignation or
removal of the chief executive officer or any director of the operator.

 (9) An operator that, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $250,000.

 (10) In this section, “chief executive officer”, in relation to an
operator mentioned in subsection (1)(b), includes a person (however
designated) who —

(a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
     arrangement with, the operator; and

(b) is directly responsible for the management and conduct of
     the whole or any part of the operator’s business in
     Singapore.

Removal of executive officer or director of operator or
settlement institution

 66.—(1) Despite the provisions of any other written law —

       (a) where the Authority is satisfied that an individual
            appointed as an executive officer of an operator or a

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
115  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     settlement institution of a designated payment system is
     not a fit and proper person to act as such executive officer,
     the Authority may, by written notice, direct that operator or
     settlement institution to remove that individual, within
     such period as the Authority may specify in the notice,
     from employment with that operator or settlement
     institution; and

     (b) where the Authority is satisfied that an individual
          appointed as a director of a Singapore operator or a
          Singapore settlement institution of a designated payment
          system is not a fit and proper person to act as such director,
          the Authority may, by written notice, direct that operator or
          settlement institution to remove that individual, within
          such period as the Authority may specify in the notice, as
          director of that operator or settlement institution.

 (2) Without affecting any other matter that the Authority may
consider relevant, in assessing whether to direct any operator or
settlement institution to remove an individual under subsection (1)(a)
or (b), the Authority may consider whether the individual —

     (a) has been convicted, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, of
          any of the following offences, whether the offence is
          committed before, on or after 28 January 2020:

     (i) an offence involving fraud or dishonesty;

     (ii) an offence the conviction for which involves a
          finding that the individual had acted fraudulently or
          dishonestly;

     (iii) an offence that is specified in the Third Schedule to
           the Registration of Criminals Act 1949;

     (b) is an undischarged bankrupt, whether in Singapore or
          elsewhere;

     (c) has had an enforcement order against the individual in
         respect of a judgment debt returned unsatisfied in whole or
         in part;

                                                                         [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                116

(d) has, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, entered into a
     compromise or scheme of arrangement with the
     individual’s creditors, being a compromise or scheme of
     arrangement that is still in operation;

          (e) has in force against the individual a prohibition order;

                                                                              [Act 18 of 2022 wef 31/07/2024]

          (f) has been a director of, or directly concerned in the
              management of, a regulated financial institution, whether
              in Singapore or elsewhere —

          (i) that is being or has been wound up by a court; or

          (ii) the approval, authorisation, designation, recognition,
               registration or licence of which has been withdrawn,
               cancelled or revoked by the Authority or, in the case
               of a regulated financial institution in a foreign
               country or territory, by the financial regulatory
               authority in that foreign country or territory;

(g) has wilfully contravened or wilfully caused the operator or
     settlement institution to contravene any provision of this
     Act;

(h) has, without reasonable excuse, failed to secure the
     compliance of the operator or settlement institution with
     this Act, the Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970 or
     any of the written laws set out in the Schedule to that Act;

          (i) has failed to discharge any of the duties of the individual’s
              office or employment; or

          (j) needs to be removed in the public interest.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), before directing an operator or a
settlement institution to remove an individual under subsection (1),
the Authority must give both the operator or settlement institution,
and the individual, an opportunity to be heard.

 (4) The Authority may direct an operator or a settlement institution
to remove an individual under subsection (1) on any of the following
grounds without giving the operator or settlement institution, or the
individual, an opportunity to be heard:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
117  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     (a) the individual is an undischarged bankrupt, whether in
          Singapore or elsewhere;

     (b) the individual has been convicted, whether in Singapore or
          elsewhere, of an offence, whether committed before, on or
          after 28 January 2020 —

     (i) involving fraud or dishonesty, or the conviction for
         which involves a finding that the individual had
         acted fraudulently or dishonestly; and

     (ii) punishable with imprisonment for a term of at least
          3 months.

 (5) Without affecting the Authority’s power to impose conditions
under section 44, the Authority may at any time, by written notice to
an operator or a settlement institution, impose or vary a condition
requiring the operator or settlement institution to notify the Authority
of any change to any particulars (such as residence in Singapore or
elsewhere, or nature of appointment) of its executive officer or
director that may be specified in the notice.

 (6) An operator or a settlement institution that, without reasonable
excuse —

     (a) fails to comply with a written notice under subsection (1);
          or

     (b) contravenes any condition imposed under subsection (5),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $100,000.

 (7) No criminal or civil liability shall be incurred by an operator or a
settlement institution of a designated payment system, or any person
acting on behalf of the operator or settlement institution, in respect of
anything done (including any statement made) or omitted to be done
with reasonable care and in good faith in the discharge or purported
discharge of the obligations of the operator or settlement institution
under this section.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.             Payment Services Act 2019                     118

Appeals to Minister

 67.—(1) An operator of a designated payment system that is
aggrieved by a decision of the Authority under section 65(3)(b) may,
within 30 days after receiving the decision of the Authority, appeal in
writing to the Minister, whose decision is final.

 (2) An operator or a settlement institution, or any executive officer
or director of an operator or a settlement institution, that is aggrieved
by a written notice of the Authority under section 66(1) may, within
30 days after receiving the notice, appeal in writing to the Minister,
whose decision is final.

   Division 8 — Audit of operators and settlement institutions of
                        designated payment systems

Auditing

 68.—(1) Despite the provisions of the Companies Act 1967, an
operator or a settlement institution of a designated payment system
must —

       (a) on an annual basis and at its own expense, appoint an
            auditor; and

       (b) if for any reason its auditor ceases to be its auditor, appoint
            another auditor as soon as practicable after such cessation.

 (2) The Authority may appoint an auditor for an operator or a
settlement institution of a designated payment system —

       (a) if the operator or settlement institution fails to appoint an
            auditor; or

       (b) if the Authority considers it desirable that another auditor
            should act with the auditor appointed under subsection (1).

 (3) The Authority may at any time fix the remuneration to be paid
by an operator or a settlement institution of a designated payment
system to an auditor appointed by the Authority under subsection (2)
for the operator or settlement institution.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
119  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

 (4) The duties of an auditor appointed under subsection (1) or (2)
for an operator or a settlement institution of a designated payment
system are as follows:

     (a) to carry out, for the year in respect of which the auditor is
          appointed, an audit of the accounts of the operator or
          settlement institution;

     (b) to make a report —

     (i) if the operator or settlement institution is a Singapore
         operator or Singapore settlement institution, on the
         financial statements or consolidated financial
         statements of the operator or settlement institution
         in accordance with section 207 of the
         Companies Act 1967; or

     (ii) if the operator or settlement institution is
          incorporated outside Singapore, on the latest
          annual balance sheet and profit and loss account of
          the operator or settlement institution, together with
          any notes on that balance sheet and profit and loss
          account, showing the assets and liabilities and profit
          or loss arising out of the operations of the operator or
          settlement institution in Singapore, that complies
          with section 207 of the Companies Act 1967.

 (5) The Authority may, by written notice to an auditor appointed
under subsection (1) or (2) for an operator or a settlement institution
of a designated payment system, impose all or any of the following
duties on the auditor in addition to those provided under
subsection (4), and the auditor must carry out the duties so imposed:

     (a) a duty to submit such additional information in relation to
          the audit as the Authority considers necessary;

     (b) a duty to enlarge or extend the scope of the audit of the
          business and affairs of the operator or settlement
          institution;

     (c) a duty to carry out any other examination, or establish any
         procedure, in relation to the audit in any particular case;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                120

(d) a duty to submit a report on any of the matters mentioned in
     paragraphs (b) and (c).

 (6) An operator or a settlement institution of a designated payment
system must remunerate an auditor appointed under subsection (1) or
(2) for the operator or settlement institution in respect of —

(a) any remuneration the Authority has fixed under
     subsection (3); and

(b) the discharge of all or any of the additional duties of the
     auditor imposed under subsection (5).

 (7) Despite any other provision of this Act or the provisions of the
Companies Act 1967, the Authority may, if the Authority is not
satisfied with the performance of any duty by the auditor of an
operator or a settlement institution of a designated payment system, at
any time direct the operator or settlement institution to —

(a) remove the auditor; and

(b) appoint another auditor.

 (8) The auditor’s report made under subsection (4)(b) must be
attached to the balance sheet and the profit and loss account, the
financial statements or the consolidated financial statements (as the
case may be) of the operator or settlement institution, and a copy of
the report, together with any report under subsection (5)(d), must be
submitted in writing to the Authority.

 (9) If an auditor, in the course of performing the auditor’s duties, is
satisfied that any of the following matters has occurred, the auditor
must immediately report that matter to the Authority:

(a) there has been a serious breach or non‑observance of the
     provisions of this Act;

(b) a criminal offence involving fraud or dishonesty has been
     committed;

          (c) losses have been incurred that reduce the capital of the
              operator or settlement institution by at least 50%;

(d) there is any irregularity that has or may have a material
     effect on the accounts of the operator or settlement

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
121  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     institution, including any irregularity that affects or
     jeopardises, or may affect or jeopardise, the interests of
     the participants of the designated payment system;

     (e) the auditor is unable to confirm that the claims of creditors
         of the operator or settlement institution are still covered by
         the assets of the operator or settlement institution.

 (10) Where an auditor or employee of the auditor discloses in good
faith to the Authority —

     (a) the auditor’s or employee’s knowledge or suspicion of any
          of the matters mentioned in subsection (9); or

     (b) any information or other matter on which that knowledge
          or suspicion is based,

the disclosure is not a breach of any restriction upon the disclosure
imposed by any law, contract or rules of professional conduct, and the
auditor or employee is not liable for any loss arising out of the
disclosure or any act or omission in consequence of the disclosure.

 (11) An operator or a settlement institution of a designated payment
system that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000
and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (12) An auditor that contravenes subsection (5) or (9) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Powers of auditor appointed by Authority

 69.—(1) An auditor appointed by the Authority under section 68(2)
for an operator or a settlement institution of a designated payment
system may, for the purpose of carrying out an examination or
audit —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                122

(a) examine, on oath or affirmation, any officer or employee of
     the operator or settlement institution, or any other auditor
     of the operator or settlement institution;

(b) require any officer or employee of the operator or
     settlement institution, or any other auditor of the
     operator or settlement institution, to produce any books
     held by or on behalf of the operator or settlement
     institution relating to the business of the operator or
     settlement institution;

          (c) make copies of or take extracts from, or retain possession
              of, any books mentioned in paragraph (b) for such period
              as may be necessary to enable those books to be inspected;

(d) employ such persons as the auditor considers necessary to
     assist the auditor in carrying out the examination or audit;
     and

          (e) authorise in writing any person employed by the auditor to
              do, in relation to the examination or audit, any act or thing
              that the auditor could do as an auditor under this
              subsection, other than the examination of a person on
              oath or affirmation.

(2) An individual who, without reasonable excuse —

(a) refuses or fails to answer any question put to the
     individual; or

(b) fails to comply with any request made to the individual,

by an auditor appointed under section 68(2) or a person authorised
under subsection (1)(e), shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $12,500 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Restriction on auditor’s and employee’s right to communicate
certain matters

 70.—(1) Except as may be necessary for the carrying into effect of
the provisions of this Act or so far as may be required for the purposes
of any legal proceedings, whether civil or criminal —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
123  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     (a) an auditor appointed under section 68(1) or (2); or

     (b) any employee of such auditor,

must not disclose any information that comes to the auditor’s or
employee’s knowledge in the course of performing the auditor’s or
employee’s duties, to any person other than the Authority, or in the
case of an employee of such auditor, the auditor.

 (2) A person that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

     (a) in the case of the auditor, to a fine not exceeding $25,000;
          or

     (b) in the case of the employee, to a fine not exceeding
          $12,500.

Offence to destroy, conceal, alter, etc., records

 71.—(1) An individual who, with intent to prevent, delay or
obstruct the carrying out of any examination or audit under section 68
or 69 —

       (a) destroys, conceals or alters any book relating to the
            business of an operator or a settlement institution of a
            designated payment system; or

       (b) sends, or conspires with any other person to send, out of
            Singapore any book or asset of any description belonging
            to, in the possession of or under the control of the operator
            or settlement institution,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (2) If, in any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is
proved that the individual charged with the offence —

       (a) destroyed, concealed or altered any book mentioned in
            subsection (1)(a); or

       (b) sent, or conspired to send, out of Singapore any book or
            asset mentioned in subsection (1)(b),

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                124

the onus of proving that, in so doing, the individual did not act with
intent to prevent, delay or obstruct the carrying out of an examination
or audit under section 68 or 69 lies on the individual.

             PART 4
          INSPECTION

                      [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Inspection by Authority

 72.—(1) The Authority may from time to time inspect, under
conditions of secrecy, the books of any of the following persons:

       (a) a licensee;

       (b) an exempt payment service provider;

       (c) an operator of a designated payment system;

       (d) a settlement institution of a designated payment system;

       (e) a participant of a designated payment system;

        (f) a person exempt under section 100.

 (2) For the purposes of an inspection under this section —

       (a) a person mentioned in subsection (1) in possession of the
            person’s books must produce those books to the Authority
            and give such information or facilities as the Authority
            may require;

       (b) a person mentioned in subsection (1) must procure any
            other person that is in possession of the firstmentioned
            person’s books to produce those books to the Authority and
            give such information or facilities as the Authority may
            require; and

       (c) the Authority may —

               (i) make copies of, or take possession of, any such
                   books;

              (ii) use, or permit the use of, any such books for the
                   purposes of any proceedings under this Act; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
125  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     (iii) subject to subsection (4), retain possession of any
           such books for so long as is necessary —

     (A) for the purposes of exercising a power
          conferred by this section;

     (B) for a decision to be made on whether or not
          proceedings should be commenced under this
          Act in relation to such books; or

     (C) for such proceedings to be commenced and
          carried on.

 (3) A person is not entitled, as against the Authority, to claim a lien
on any of the books, but such a lien is not otherwise prejudiced.

 (4) While the books are in the possession of the Authority, the
Authority —

     (a) must permit another person to inspect at all reasonable
          times such (if any) of the books as the other person would
          be entitled to inspect if they were not in the possession of
          the Authority; and

     (b) may permit another person to inspect any of the books.

 (5) The Authority may require a person that produced any book to
the Authority to explain, to the best of the person’s knowledge and
belief, any matter about the compilation of the book or to which the
book relates.

 (6) A person that, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
subsection (2)(a) or (b) or a requirement of the Authority under
subsection (5) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

     (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $50,000
          or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
          both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
          fine not exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of a day
          during which the offence continues after conviction; or

     (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in
          the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                126

          exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during
          which the offence continues after conviction.

73. [Repealed by Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Confidentiality of inspection reports

 74.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), where the Authority has —

       (a) produced a written report upon an inspection under
            section 72 of the books of a person (being a licensee, an
            exempt payment service provider, an operator, a settlement
            institution or a participant of a designated payment system,
            or a person exempt under section 100); and

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

       (b) provided the report to the person whose books were
            inspected (called in this section the subject),

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

the report must not be disclosed to any person by the subject, or any of
the subject’s officers or auditors.

 (2) The report mentioned in subsection (1) may be disclosed —

       (a) by the subject to the subject’s officer or auditor solely in
            connection with the performance of the duties of the officer
            or auditor in the subject;

       (b) by any officer or auditor of the subject to any other officer
            or auditor of the subject, solely in connection with the
            performance of their duties in the subject; or

       (c) to such other person as the Authority may approve in
            writing.

 (3) In granting written approval for any disclosure under
subsection (2)(c), the Authority may impose such conditions or
restrictions as the Authority thinks fit on the subject, any of the
subject’s officers or auditors, or the person to whom disclosure is
approved, and the subject, officer or auditor, or the person to whom
disclosure is approved, must comply with the condition or restriction.

 (4) The obligations of an officer or auditor mentioned in
subsections (1) and (3) continue after the termination or cessation

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
127  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

of the officer’s or auditor’s employment with or appointment by the
subject.

 (5) A person that contravenes subsection (1) or (3) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

     (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $50,000
          or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
          both; or

     (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

 (6) A person to whom the report is disclosed and that knows or has
reasonable grounds for believing, at the time of the disclosure, that
the report was disclosed to the person in contravention of
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence, unless the person
proves that —

     (a) the disclosure was made contrary to the person’s desire;

     (b) where the disclosure was made in any written form, the
          person has, as soon as practicable after receiving the report,
          surrendered or taken all reasonable steps to surrender the
          report and all copies of the report to the Authority; and

     (c) where the disclosure was made in an electronic form, the
         person has, as soon as practicable after receiving the report,
         taken all reasonable steps to ensure that all electronic
         copies of the report have been deleted and that the report
         and all copies of the report in other forms have been
         surrendered to the Authority.

 (7) A person convicted of an offence under subsection (6) shall be
liable on conviction —

     (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $50,000
          or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
          both; or

     (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

                                                                         [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.            Payment Services Act 2019                      128

Self‑incrimination

 75.—(1) A person is not excused from disclosing information to the
Authority pursuant to a requirement made of the person under this
Part on the grounds that the disclosure of the information might tend
to incriminate the person.

 (2) Where a person claims, before making a statement disclosing
information that the person is required to disclose by such
requirement, that the statement might tend to incriminate the
person, that statement is not admissible in evidence against the
person in criminal proceedings other than proceedings for an offence
under section 94(4).

Saving for advocates and solicitors

 76.—(1) Nothing in this Part —

       (a) compels an advocate and solicitor to disclose or produce
            any privileged communication, or a document or other
            material containing any privileged communication, made
            by or to the advocate and solicitor in that capacity; or

       (b) authorises the taking of any such document or other
            material that is in the possession of the advocate and
            solicitor.

 (2) An advocate and solicitor who refuses to disclose the
information or produce the document or other material mentioned
in subsection (1) must nevertheless give the name and address (if
known to the advocate and solicitor) of the person to whom, or by or
on behalf of whom, that privileged communication was made.

 (3) An advocate and solicitor who contravenes subsection (2) shall
be guilty of an offence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
129               Payment Services Act 2019                   2020 Ed.

                             PART 4A

                     INVESTIGATIONS

                  Division 1 — Preliminary

Interpretation of this Part

76A. In this Part —

     “advocate and solicitor” means an advocate and solicitor of the
        Supreme Court or a foreign lawyer as defined in section 2(1)
        of the Legal Profession Act 1966;

     “auditor” means a public accountant who is registered or
        deemed to be registered under the Accountants Act 2004;

     “computer” and “data” have the meanings given by section 2(1)
        of the Computer Misuse Act 1993;

     “law enforcement agency” means any authority or person
        charged with the duty of investigating offences or charging
        offenders under any written law;

     “legal counsel” has the meaning given by section 3(7) of the
        Evidence Act 1893;

     “officer” —

     (a) in relation to the Authority, includes any person
          employed by the Authority in an executive capacity;
          and

     (b) in relation to any corporation (other than a law
          enforcement agency), has the meaning given by
          section 4(1) of the Companies Act 1967;

     “prescribed written law” means this Act or any of the following
        Acts, and any subsidiary legislation made under this Act or
        those Acts:

     (a) Banking Act 1970;

     (b) Credit Bureau Act 2016;

     (c) Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’ Protection
         Schemes Act 2011;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                130

          (d) Finance Companies Act 1967;

          (e) Financial Advisers Act 2001;

          (f) Financial Holding Companies Act 2013;

          (g) Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

          (h) Insurance Act 1966;

          (i) Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970;

          (j) Securities and Futures Act 2001;

          (k) Trust Companies Act 2005;

          (l) such other Act as the Authority may prescribe by
              regulations made under section 103.

                                                                    [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

            Division 2 — Investigative powers of Authority

                         Subdivision (1) — General

Investigation by Authority

 76B.—(1) The Authority may conduct such investigation as it
considers necessary or expedient for any of the following purposes:

       (a) to perform any of its functions and duties under this Act;

       (b) to ensure compliance with this Act or any written direction
            issued under this Act;

       (c) to investigate an alleged or suspected contravention of any
            provision of this Act or any written direction issued under
            this Act.

 (2) The Authority may exercise any of its powers under this
Division for the purposes of conducting an investigation under
subsection (1) despite the provisions of any prescribed written law or
any requirement imposed thereunder or any rule of law.

 (3) Subject to subsection (5), a requirement imposed by the
Authority under this Division has effect despite any obligations as
to secrecy or other restrictions upon the disclosure of information
imposed by any prescribed written law or any requirement imposed

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
131  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

thereunder, any rule of law, any contract or any rule of professional
conduct.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), any person who complies with a
requirement imposed by the Authority under this Division is not
treated as being in breach of any restriction upon the disclosure of
information or thing imposed by any prescribed written law or any
requirement imposed thereunder, any rule of law, any contract or any
rule of professional conduct.

 (5) Nothing in this section requires a person to disclose any
information subject to legal privilege.

 (6) No civil or criminal action, other than proceedings for an
offence under section 76R, shall lie against any person —

     (a) for giving assistance to the Authority, including answering
          questions, if the person had given the assistance or
          answered the questions in good faith in compliance with
          a requirement imposed by the Authority under this
          Division;

     (b) for providing information, producing books or giving
          access to data to the Authority, if the person had done so in
          good faith in compliance with a requirement imposed by
          the Authority under this Division; or

     (c) for doing or omitting to do any act, if the person had done
         or omitted to do the act in good faith and as a result of
         complying with a requirement imposed by the Authority
         under this Division.

 (7) In this section, a reference to a requirement imposed by the
Authority under this Division includes a reference to a requirement
imposed by an investigator or authorised person under
Subdivision (2) or (3).

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Confidentiality of investigation reports

 76C.—(1) Where a written report or any part of a written report
(called in this section the report) has been produced by the Authority
in respect of any investigation under section 76B and is provided by

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                132

the Authority to the person under investigation (called in this section
the investigated person), the report must not be disclosed by the
investigated person or, if the investigated person is a corporation, by
any of its officers or auditors, to any other person except in the
circumstances provided under subsection (2).

 (2) Disclosure of the report mentioned in subsection (1) may be
made —

(a) by the investigated person to any officer or auditor of that
     investigated person solely in connection with the
     performance of the duties of the officer or auditor (as the
     case may be) in that investigated person;

(b) by any officer or auditor of the investigated person to any
     other officer or auditor of that investigated person, solely
     in connection with the performance of their duties in that
     investigated person; or

          (c) to such other person as the Authority may approve in
              writing.

 (3) In granting written approval for any disclosure under
subsection (2)(c), the Authority may impose such conditions or
restrictions as it thinks fit on the investigated person, any of its
officers or auditors or the person to whom disclosure is approved, and
that person must comply with such conditions or restrictions.

 (4) The obligation on an officer or auditor mentioned in
subsection (1) continues after the termination or cessation of his or
her employment or appointment by the investigated person.

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (6) Any person to whom the report is disclosed and who knows or
has reasonable grounds for believing, at the time of the disclosure,
that the report was disclosed to the person in contravention of
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both, unless the person proves that —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
133  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     (a) the disclosure was made contrary to the person’s desire;

     (b) where the disclosure was made in any written or printed
          form, the person had, as soon as practicable after receiving
          the report, surrendered or taken all reasonable steps to
          surrender the report and all copies of the report to the
          Authority; and

     (c) where the disclosure was made in an electronic form, the
         person had, as soon as practicable after receiving the
         report, taken all reasonable steps to ensure that all
         electronic copies of the report had been deleted and that
         the report and all copies of the report in other forms had
         been surrendered to the Authority.

                                                                         [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Self‑incrimination and saving for advocates and solicitors

 76D.—(1) A person is not excused from disclosing information to
the Authority, or an investigator or authorised person mentioned in
Subdivision (2) or (3), pursuant to a requirement made of the person
under any provision of this Division, on the ground that the disclosure
of the information might tend to incriminate the person.

 (2) Where a person claims, before making a statement disclosing
information that the person is required to disclose under any
provision of this Division to the Authority or to an investigator or
authorised person mentioned in Subdivision (2) or (3), that the
statement might tend to incriminate the person, that statement is not
admissible in evidence against the person in criminal proceedings
other than proceedings for an offence under section 76R(5).

 (3) For the purposes of any proceedings for an offence under this
Act, the making of a statement by an accused person made pursuant to
a requirement mentioned in subsection (1), is not to be regarded under
section 258(3) of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 as caused by any
inducement, threat or promise merely because the Authority,
investigator or authorised person had earlier informed the accused
person that the accused person was not excused from disclosing
information on the ground that the disclosure of the information
might tend to incriminate the accused person, if the Authority,

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                134

investigator or authorised person (as the case may be) believed in
good faith, when so informing the accused person, that —

(a) the accused person was concerned in an offence under this
     Act; or

(b) a reasonable complaint has been made, or credible
     information has been received, or a reasonable suspicion
     exists, that the accused person was concerned in an offence
     under this Act.

(4) Nothing in this Division —

(a) compels an advocate and solicitor or legal counsel to
     disclose or produce a privileged communication, or a book
     or other material containing a privileged communication,
     made by or to the advocate and solicitor or legal counsel in
     that capacity; or

(b) authorises the taking of any such book or other material
     which is in the possession of an advocate and solicitor or
     legal counsel.

 (5) Despite subsection (4), an advocate and solicitor or legal
counsel —

(a) who is required under this Division to disclose or produce a
     privileged communication, or a book or other material
     containing a privileged communication, made by or to the
     advocate and solicitor or legal counsel in that capacity; and

(b) who refuses to disclose or produce the privileged
     communication, book or other material,

must give the name and address (if he or she knows them) of the
person to whom, or by or on behalf of whom, that privileged
communication was made.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

               Subdivision (2) — Examination of persons

Requirement to appear for examination

 76E.—(1) For the purpose of an investigation under this Division,
the Authority may, in writing, require a person —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
135  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     (a) to give to the Authority all reasonable assistance in
          connection with the investigation; and

     (b) to appear before an officer of the Authority duly authorised
          by the Authority for examination and to answer questions.

 (2) A written requirement imposed under subsection (1) must state
the general nature of the matter mentioned in that subsection.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Proceedings at examination

 76F. The provisions of this Subdivision apply where, pursuant to a
requirement made under section 76E for the purposes of an
investigation under this Division, a person (called in this
Subdivision the examinee) appears before another person (called in
this Subdivision the investigator) for examination.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Requirements made of examinee

 76G.—(1) The investigator may examine the examinee on oath or
affirmation, and may, for that purpose, administer an oath or
affirmation to the examinee.

 (2) The oath or affirmation to be taken or made by the examinee for
the purposes of the examination is an oath or affirmation that the
statements that the examinee will make are true.

 (3) The investigator may require the examinee to answer a question
that is put to the examinee at the examination and is relevant to a
matter that the Authority is investigating, or is to investigate, under
this Division.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Examination to take place in private

 76H.—(1) The examination must take place in private and the
investigator may give directions as to who may be present during the
examination or part thereof.

 (2) A person must not be present at the examination unless the
person is —

       (a) the investigator or the examinee;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                136

(b) a person approved by the Authority; or

          (c) entitled to be present by virtue of a direction under
              subsection (1).

                                                                              [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Record of examination

 76I.—(1) The investigator may, and must if the examinee so
requests, cause a record to be made of statements made at the
examination.

 (2) If a record made under subsection (1) is in writing or is reduced
to writing —

       (a) the investigator may require the examinee to read the
            record, or to have it read to the examinee, and may require
            the examinee to sign it; and

       (b) the investigator must, if requested in writing by the
            examinee to give to the examinee a copy of the written
            record, provide a copy of the written record without charge
            within a reasonable time, subject to such conditions as the
            investigator may impose.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Giving copies of record to other persons

 76J.—(1) The Authority may, subject to such conditions or
restrictions as it may impose, give a copy of a written record of the
examination, or such a copy together with a copy of any related book,
to an advocate and solicitor acting on behalf of a person who is
carrying on, or is contemplating in good faith, a legal proceeding in
respect of a matter to which the examination relates.

 (2) If the Authority gives a copy of a written record or book to a
person under subsection (1), the person, or any other person who has
possession, custody or control of the copy or a further copy of the
copy, must not, except in connection with preparing, beginning or
carrying on, or in the course of, any legal proceeding —

       (a) use the copy or a further copy of the copy; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
137  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     (b) publish, or communicate to a person, the copy, a further
          copy of the copy, or any part of the contents of the copy.

 (3) The Authority may, subject to such conditions or restrictions as
it may impose, give to a person other than a person mentioned in
subsection (1), a copy of a written record of the examination, or the
copy together with a copy of any related book.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Copies given subject to conditions

 76K. If a copy of any written record or book is given to a person
under section 76I(2) or 76J(1) or (3) subject to conditions or
restrictions imposed by the investigator or the Authority (as the case
may be), the person, and any other person who has possession,
custody or control of the copy or the further copy of the copy, must
comply with the conditions or restrictions.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

           Subdivision (3) — Powers to obtain information

Power of Authority to order production of books, provision of
information or giving of access to data

 76L. For the purpose of an investigation under this Division, the
Authority may, in writing, require —

       (a) a person who is believed to possess, or to have power to
            access, any book, or who is believed to possess any
            information, relating to any matter under investigation; or

       (b) a person who is believed to have power to access any data
            relating to any matter under investigation,

to —

       (c) produce the book or a copy of the book, or to provide the
            information, at the time and place specified in the written
            requirement;

       (d) give the Authority or any officer of the Authority who is
            authorised by the Authority for this purpose (called in this
            section an investigator) access to the book or data; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                138

          (e) provide such reasonable assistance as the Authority or an
              investigator may require for the purposes of accessing the
              book or data.

                                                                              [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Power to enter premises without warrant

 76M.—(1) In connection with an investigation under this Division,
any officer of the Authority who is authorised by the Authority to do
so (called in this section an investigator) and such other officers or
persons as the Authority has authorised in writing to accompany the
investigator (each called in this section an authorised person) may
enter any premises.

 (2) An investigator or authorised person accompanying the
investigator must not enter any premises in the exercise of the
powers under this section unless the investigator has given the
occupier of the premises a written notice which —

       (a) gives at least 2 working days’ notice of the intended entry;

       (b) indicates the subject matter and purpose of the
            investigation; and

       (c) indicates the nature of the offences investigated.

 (3) Subsection (2) does not apply —

       (a) if the investigation relates to an alleged or suspected
            contravention of any provision of this Act and the
            investigator has reasonable grounds for suspecting that
            the premises are, or have been, occupied by a person who is
            being investigated in relation to the contravention; or

       (b) if the investigator has taken all such steps as are reasonably
            practicable to give notice under subsection (2)(a) but has
            not been able to do so.

 (4) Where subsection (3) applies, the power of entry conferred by
subsection (1) may only be exercised upon production of —

       (a) evidence of the investigator’s authorisation and the
            authorisation of every authorised person accompanying
            the investigator; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
139  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     (b) a document containing information indicating the subject
          matter and purpose of the investigation and the nature of
          the offences investigated.

 (5) Without affecting section 76L, an investigator or authorised
person entering any premises under this section may —

     (a) bring with him or her to the premises such items as appear
          to him or her to be necessary;

     (b) require any person on the premises to produce any book or
          copy of any book or to give access to any data which the
          investigator or authorised person considers relates to any
          matter relevant to the investigation;

     (c) require any person on the premises to state, to the best of
         the person’s knowledge and belief, where any such book or
         data is to be found; and

     (d) take any step, or issue to any person on the premises any
          requirement, which appears to be necessary for the purpose
          of preserving or preventing interference with any such
          book or data.

                                                                         [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Warrant to seize books, etc.

 76N.—(1) A Magistrate may, on the application of the Authority —

       (a) issue a warrant, if the Magistrate is satisfied that there are
            reasonable grounds to suspect that there is, on any
            particular premises, any book, or a computer in which
            any data is contained or to which any data is available —

               (i) being any book or data the production of which, or
                   access to which, has been required under section 76L
                   or 76M, but which has not been produced, or access
                   to which has not been given, in compliance with that
                   requirement; or

              (ii) being any book or data which, if production of which
                   or access to which is required under section 76L or
                   76M, will be concealed, removed, tampered with or
                   destroyed; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                140

(b) if the Magistrate is also satisfied that there are reasonable
     grounds to suspect that there is, on those premises, any
     other book, or a computer in which any other data is
     contained or to which any other data is available, which
     relates to any matter relevant to the investigation
     concerned, direct that the powers exercisable under the
     warrant extend to such other book or computer.

 (2) A warrant issued under subsection (1) authorises the Authority
or any person named in the warrant, with or without assistance —

(a) to enter the premises specified in the warrant, using such
     force as is reasonably necessary for the purpose;

(b) to search the premises and to break open and search
     anything, whether a fixture or not, in the premises;

          (c) to take possession of, or secure against interference, any
              book or computer that appears to be a book or computer
              mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b);

(d) to require any person to provide an explanation of any
     book or data that appears to be any book or data mentioned
     in subsection (1)(a) or (b), or to state, to the best of that
     person’s knowledge and belief, where any such book or
     data may be found;

          (e) to search any person on those premises, if there are
              reasonable grounds to suspect that the person has in his or
              her possession any book or computer that appears to be a
              book or computer mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b), or
              any equipment or article which relates to any matter
              relevant to the investigation concerned;

          (f) to remove from those premises for examination any book
              that appears to be a book mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or
              (b), or any equipment (including a computer) or article
              which relates to any matter relevant to the investigation
              concerned;

(g) to access, inspect and check the operation of a computer on
     the premises specified in the warrant, if there are
     reasonable grounds to suspect that any data mentioned in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
141  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     subsection (1)(a) or (b) is or has been contained in or
     available to the computer, or that the computer is a
     computer mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b);

     (h) to use any computer mentioned in paragraph (g), or cause
          any such computer to be used —

     (i) to search any book or data that appears to be a book
         or any data mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b), that
         is contained in or available to such computer; and

     (ii) to make a copy of any such book or data;

     (i) to prevent any other person from gaining access to, or
         using, any computer mentioned in paragraph (g) (including
         by changing any username, password or other
         authentication information required to gain access to the
         computer);

     (j) to order any person —

     (i) to stop accessing or using or to not access or use any
         computer mentioned in paragraph (g); or

     (ii) to access or use any such computer only under such
          conditions as the Authority or any person named in
          the warrant may specify; and

     (k) to order —

     (i) any person whom the Authority or any person named
         in the warrant reasonably suspects of using, or of
         having used, a computer mentioned in paragraph (g);

     (ii) any person having charge of, or otherwise concerned
          with the operation of, any such computer; or

     (iii) any person whom the Authority or any person named
           in the warrant reasonably believes has knowledge of
           or access to any username, password or other
           authentication information required to gain access
           to any such computer,

     (k) to provide any of the following types of assistance to the
         Authority:

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                142

          (iv) assistance to gain access to the computer (including
               assistance through the provision of any username,
               password or other authentication information
               required to gain access to the computer);

          (v) assistance to prevent a person (other than the
               Authority or any person named in the warrant)
               from gaining access to, or using, the computer,
               including assistance in changing any username,
               password or other authentication information
               required to gain access to the computer.

 (3) The Authority or any person named in the warrant may allow
any equipment or article mentioned in subsection (2)(f) to be retained
on the premises specified in the warrant, subject to such conditions as
the Authority or that person may require.

 (4) Any person entering any premises by virtue of a warrant issued
under subsection (1) may bring with him or her to the premises such
items as appear to him or her to be necessary.

 (5) Where a warrant is issued under subsection (1), and there is no
one present at the premises specified in the warrant when the
Authority or any person named in the warrant proposes to execute the
warrant, the Authority or that person must, before executing the
warrant —

(a) take such steps as are reasonable in all the circumstances to
     inform the occupier of the premises of the intended entry
     into the premises; and

(b) subject to subsection (6), give the occupier or the
     occupier’s legal or other representative a reasonable
     opportunity to be present when the warrant is executed.

 (6) If the Authority or any person named in the warrant is unable to
inform the occupier of the premises of the intended entry into the
premises, the Authority or that person must, when executing the
warrant, leave a copy of the warrant in a prominent place on the
premises.

 (7) On leaving any premises specified in a warrant issued under
subsection (1), the Authority or any person named in the warrant

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
143  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

must, if the premises are unoccupied or if the occupier of the premises
is temporarily absent, leave the premises as effectively secured as the
Authority or that person found the premises.

 (8) The powers conferred by this section are in addition to, and not
in derogation of, any other powers conferred by any other written law
or rule of law.

(9) In this section —

     “occupier”, in relation to any premises specified in a warrant
        issued under subsection (1), includes any person whom the
        Authority or any person named in the warrant reasonably
        believes to be the occupier of those premises;

     “premises” includes any structure, building, aircraft, vehicle or
        vessel.

                       [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Powers where books are produced, etc.

 76O.—(1) This section applies where —

       (a) any book is produced to the Authority, or access to any
            book, or any data contained in or available to a computer, is
            given to the Authority —

               (i) pursuant to a requirement under section 76L; or

              (ii) during an entry into any premises by an investigator
                   or authorised person under section 76M;

       (b) under a warrant issued under section 76N(1), the Authority
            or a person named therein —

               (i) takes possession of any book or computer; or

              (ii) secures any book or computer against interference;
                   or

       (c) under a previous application of subsection (6), any book or
            computer is delivered into the possession of the Authority
            or a person authorised by it.

 (2) If subsection (1)(a) applies, the Authority may take possession
of any book or computer mentioned in that provision.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                144

 (3) The Authority or, where applicable, a person mentioned in
subsection (1)(b) or (c) may —

(a) inspect, and make copies of, or take extracts from, a book,
     or any data contained in or available to the computer,
     mentioned in that subsection;

(b) use, or permit the use of, a book, or any data contained in or
     available to the computer, mentioned in that subsection for
     the purposes of any proceedings;

          (c) retain possession of a book or computer mentioned in that
              subsection for so long as is necessary —

          (i) for the purposes of exercising a power conferred by
              this section;

          (ii) for a decision to be made about whether or not any
               proceedings to which the book or any data contained
               in or available to the computer would be relevant
               should be instituted; or

          (iii) for such proceedings to be instituted and carried on;
                and

(d) require any book stored in any electronic form, or any data,
     which the Authority or person mentioned in
     subsection (1)(b) or (c) is satisfied relates to any matter
     relevant to an investigation under this Division, to be
     produced in a form which can be taken away and which is
     visible and legible.

 (4) No person is entitled, as against the Authority or, where
applicable, a person mentioned in subsection (1)(b) or (c) to claim a
lien on any book or computer mentioned in that subsection, but such a
lien is not otherwise prejudiced.

 (5) While any book or computer is in the possession of the
Authority or (where applicable) the person mentioned in
subsection (1)(b) or (c), the Authority or the person —

(a) must permit another person to inspect at all reasonable
     times the book or computer as the second‑mentioned
     person would be entitled to inspect if the book or computer

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
145  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     were not in the possession of the Authority or the
     firstmentioned person; and

     (b) may permit any other person to inspect the book or
          computer.

 (6) If subsection (1)(a) or (b)(i) applies, an investigator or
authorised person mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or a person
mentioned in subsection (1)(b) may deliver any book or computer
into the possession of the Authority or of a person authorised by the
Authority to receive them.

 (7) If subsection (1)(a) or (b) or (6) applies, the Authority, an
investigator or authorised person mentioned in subsection (1)(a), a
person mentioned in subsection (1)(b) or a person into whose
possession any book or computer is delivered under subsection (6),
may require —

     (a) if subsection (1)(a) applies — a person who produced the
          book or gave access to the book or the data contained in or
          available to the computer; or

     (b) if subsection (1)(b) applies — a person who was a party to
          the preparation of the book or any data contained in or
          available to the computer,

to explain, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, any matter
about the preparation of the book or data or any matter to which the
book or data relates.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Powers where books not produced, information not provided
or access to book or data not given

 76P. Where a person fails to comply with a requirement imposed
by the Authority under section 76L to produce any book, provide any
information or give access to any book or data, the Authority may
require the person to state, to the best of his or her knowledge and
belief —

       (a) the place where such book, or any computer in which such
            data is contained or to which such data is available, may be
            found;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                146

(b) the person who last had possession, custody or control of
     such book, or any computer in which such data is contained
     or to which such data is available, and the place where that
     person may be found; or

          (c) the person who possesses such information and the place
              where that person may be found.

                                                                              [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Copies of or extracts from books to be admitted in evidence

 76Q.—(1) Subject to this section, a copy of or extract from any
book referred to in this Division that is proved to be a true copy of the
book, or of the relevant part of the book, is admissible in evidence as
if it were the original book, or the relevant part of the original book.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), evidence that a copy of or
extract from any book is a true copy of the book or of a part of the
book, may be given by a person who has compared the copy or extract
with the book or the relevant part of the book, and may be given orally
or by an affidavit sworn, or by a declaration made, before a person
authorised to take affidavits or statutory declarations.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Offences under this Division

 76R.—(1) An advocate and solicitor or legal counsel who, without
reasonable excuse, fails to comply with section 76D(5) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000.

 (2) A person who, without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to
comply with —

       (a) any requirement imposed under section 76E(1), 76G(3),
            76M(5)(b), (c) or (d), 76O(3)(d) or (7) or 76P; or

       (b) any requirement imposed pursuant to a warrant issued
            under section 76N(1),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2
years or to both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
147  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

 (3) A person who, without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to
comply with —

     (a) any requirement of an investigator under section 76I(2)(a);
          or

     (b) section 76J(2) or 76K,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (4) A person who, without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to
comply with any requirement imposed under section 76L shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of a day during which
the offence continues after conviction.

(5) A person who —

     (a) in purported compliance with a requirement imposed under
          section 76D(5), 76L, 76M(5)(b), (c) or (d), 76O(3)(d) or
          (7) or 76P, or pursuant to a warrant issued under
          section 76N(1); or

     (b) in the course of examination of the person,

provides information or makes a statement that is false or misleading
in a material particular shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (6) It is a defence to a prosecution for an offence under
subsection (5) if the defendant proves that the defendant believed
on reasonable grounds that the information or statement was true and
not misleading.

 (7) Any person who, knowing or having reasonable grounds to
believe that any book, computer, equipment or article relates to a
matter that the Authority is investigating or about to investigate under
this Division —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                148

(a) conceals, destroys, mutilates or alters that book, computer,
     equipment or article; or

(b) if any such book, computer, equipment or article is within
     the territory of Singapore, takes or sends the book,
     computer, equipment or article out of Singapore,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (8) A person who, without reasonable excuse, obstructs or hinders
the Authority in the exercise of any power under this Division, or
obstructs or hinders a person who is exercising any power under
section 76M(1) or (5) or executing a warrant issued under
section 76N(1), shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (9) Any occupier or person in charge of any premises who fails to
provide, to any person who enters those premises under
section 76M(1) or under a warrant issued under section 76N(1), all
reasonable facilities and assistance for the effective exercise of that
person’s powers under section 76M(1) or (5) or under the warrant (as
the case may be) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

                    Division 3 — Transfer of evidence
Interpretation of this Division

 76S. In this Division ––
      “Commercial Affairs Officer” means a Commercial Affairs
         Officer appointed under section 64 of the Police Force
         Act 2004;
      “police officer” means a member of the Singapore Police Force.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
149  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

Evidence obtained by Authority may be used in criminal
investigations and proceedings

 76T.—(1) Despite the provisions of any written law or rule of law,
the Authority may provide any book, written record of any
examination or other information, or access to any data, obtained
by the Authority under this Part to —

     (a) a police officer;

     (b) a Commercial Affairs Officer; or

     (c) the Public Prosecutor,

for the purposes of any investigation into or criminal proceedings
against a person for an alleged or suspected contravention of any
provision under this Act.

 (2) To avoid doubt, any book, written record of examination or
other information provided, or any data to which access is provided,
by the Authority under subsection (1) is not inadmissible in any
criminal proceedings by reason only that it was first obtained by the
Authority under this Act, and the admissibility thereof is to be
determined in accordance with the rules of evidence under written
law and any relevant rules of law.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Evidence obtained under Criminal Procedure Code 2010 may
be used for purposes of Act

 76U. Despite the provisions of any written law or any rule of law,
any book, data, statement or other information obtained by —

       (a) a police officer or a Commercial Affairs Officer in the
            exercise of his or her powers under Divisions 1 and 2 of
            Part 4 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010; or

       (b) an authorised person mentioned in section 20(1) or (1A),
            39(1) or 40(2) of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, in the
            exercise of his or her powers under those sections,

may be provided to the following persons for the following purposes,
if it is in the public interest to do so:

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                150

          (c) to the Authority — for the purpose of any investigation
              under section 76B(1);

(d) to the Minister — for the purpose of any appeal against a
     decision of the Authority under this Act.

                                                                    [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

                                    PART 5

                         EMERGENCY POWERS

Interpretation of this Part

 77. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “business” includes affairs and property;

      “emergency” means —

              (a) any situation that prevents a designated payment
                   system from carrying out its functions;

              (b) any situation in which, in the opinion of the
                   Authority, the operations of a designated payment
                   system are carried on in a manner likely to be
                   detrimental to the interests of the participants of the
                   designated payment system; or

              (c) any undesirable situation or practice that, in the
                   opinion of the Authority, constitutes an emergency;

      “office‑holder”, in relation to a payment entity, means any
         person acting as the liquidator, provisional liquidator,
         receiver, receiver and manager, judicial manager or an
         equivalent person of that payment entity;

      “payment entity” means any of the following entities:

              (a) a licensee;

              (b) a person that is granted a licence under section 57B of
                   the Banking Act 1970 to carry on the business of
                   issuing credit cards or charge cards in Singapore;

              (c) an operator of a designated payment system;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
151  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     (d) a settlement institution of a designated payment
          system;

     “relevant business”, in relation to a payment entity, means any
        business of that payment entity —

     (a) in relation to which a statutory adviser has been
          appointed under section 78(2)(b);

     (b) in relation to which a statutory manager has been
          appointed under section 78(2)(c); or

     (c) that the Authority has assumed control of under
         section 78(2)(c);

     “statutory adviser” means a statutory adviser appointed under
        section 78(2)(b);

     “statutory manager” means a statutory manager appointed under
        section 78(2)(c).

Action by Authority if payment entity unable to meet
obligations, etc.

 78.—(1) The Authority may exercise one or more of the powers
specified in subsection (2) as appears to the Authority to be necessary,
where —

       (a) a payment entity informs the Authority that the payment
            entity is or is likely to become insolvent, is or is likely to
            become unable to meet the payment entity’s obligations, or
            has suspended or is about to suspend payments;

       (b) a payment entity is insolvent, becomes unable to meet the
            payment entity’s obligations, or suspends payments;

       (c) the Authority is of the opinion that the payment entity —

               (i) is or is likely to become insolvent, is or is likely to
                   become unable to meet the payment entity’s
                   obligations, or has suspended or is about to
                   suspend payments; or

              (ii) has contravened any of the provisions of this Act; or

       (d) the Authority considers it in the public interest to do so.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                152

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Authority may exercise
any of the following powers:

(a) require the payment entity to immediately take any action,
     or to do or not to do any act, in relation to the business of
     the payment entity, that the Authority may consider
     necessary;

(b) appoint one or more persons as statutory adviser, on such
     terms as the Authority may specify by written notice, to
     advise the payment entity on the proper management of
     such business of the payment entity as the Authority may
     determine;

          (c) assume control of and manage such business of the
              payment entity as the Authority may determine, or
              appoint one or more persons as statutory manager to do
              so on such terms as the Authority may specify by written
              notice.

 (3) Where the Authority appoints 2 or more persons as statutory
manager of a payment entity, the Authority must specify, in the terms
of the appointment, which of the duties, functions and powers of the
statutory manager —

(a) may be discharged or exercised by those persons jointly
     and severally;

(b) must be discharged or exercised by those persons jointly;
     and

          (c) must be discharged or exercised by a specified person
              (being one of those persons).

 (4) Where the Authority has exercised any power under
subsection (2), the Authority may, at any time and without
affecting the Authority’s powers under section 11(2) or (3), do one
or more of the following:

(a) vary or revoke any requirement of, any appointment made
     by, or any action taken by the Authority under
     subsection (2) in the exercise of such power, on such
     terms as the Authority may specify by written notice;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
153  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     (b) exercise any of the powers under subsection (2);

     (c) add to, vary or revoke any term the Authority has specified
         under this section.

 (5) A statutory manager or statutory adviser incurs no liability for
anything done (including any statement made) or omitted to be done
with reasonable care and in good faith in the course of or in
connection with —

     (a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
          Act;

     (b) the performance or purported performance of any function
          or duty under this Act; or

     (c) the compliance or purported compliance with this Act.

Emergency powers of Authority applicable to designated
payment systems

 79.—(1) Without affecting section 78, where the Authority has
reason to believe that an emergency exists, or thinks that it is
necessary or expedient in the interests of the public or a section of the
public to so act, the Authority may exercise one or more of the
following powers:

       (a) by written notice, direct an operator or a settlement
            institution of a designated payment system to take such
            action as the Authority considers necessary to maintain or
            restore the safe and efficient operation of the designated
            payment system;

       (b) apply to the General Division of the High Court for the
            winding up or bankruptcy (as the case may be) of an
            operator or a settlement institution of a designated payment
            system;

       (c) require an operator of a designated payment system to
            cease operation of the designated payment system.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1)(a), the actions that the
Authority may direct an operator or a settlement institution of a

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                154

designated payment system to take include modifying or suspending
any of the rules of the designated payment system.

 (3) The Authority may modify or cancel any action taken by it
under subsection (1), and in so modifying or cancelling any such
action, the Authority may impose such conditions as it thinks fit,
subject to which the modification or cancellation has effect.

 (4) An operator or a settlement institution of a designated payment
system that fails to comply with any written notice issued under
subsection (1)(a) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every
day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

Assumption of control

 80.—(1) Upon assuming control of any business of a payment
entity under section 78(2)(c), the Authority or statutory manager (as
the case may be) must take custody or control of the relevant business
of the payment entity.

 (2) During the period when the Authority or statutory manager is in
control of the relevant business of a payment entity, the Authority or
statutory manager —

       (a) must manage the relevant business in the name of and on
            behalf of the payment entity; and

       (b) is treated as an agent of the payment entity.

 (3) In managing the relevant business of a payment entity, the
Authority or statutory manager has all the duties, powers and
functions of the members of the board of directors of the payment
entity (collectively and individually) under —

       (a) this Act;

       (b) the Companies Act 1967; and

       (c) the constitution of the payment entity,

including powers of delegation, in relation to the relevant business of
the payment entity.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
155  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

 (4) Despite subsection (3), the Authority or statutory manager is not
required to call any meeting of the payment entity under the
Companies Act 1967 or the constitution of the payment entity.

(5) Despite any written law or rule of law —

     (a) upon the Authority or statutory manager assuming control
          of any business of a payment entity under section 78(2)(c),
          any appointment of an individual as chief executive officer
          or director of the payment entity that was in force
          immediately before the assumption of control is treated
          as revoked, unless the Authority gives the Authority’s
          approval, by written notification to the individual and the
          payment entity, for the individual to remain in the
          appointment; and

     (b) during the period when the Authority or statutory manager
          is in control of the relevant business of the payment entity,
          an individual must not be appointed as chief executive
          officer or director of the payment entity, except with the
          approval of the Authority.

 (6) Where the Authority has given its approval under subsection (5)
for an individual to remain in the appointment of, or to be appointed
as, chief executive officer or director of a payment entity, the
Authority may at any time, by written notification to the individual,
revoke the Authority’s approval, and that appointment is treated as
revoked on the date specified in the notification.

 (7) Despite any written law or rule of law, if any individual, whose
appointment as chief executive officer or director of a payment entity
is revoked under subsection (5) or (6), acts or purports to act as chief
executive officer or director of the payment entity during the period
when the Authority or statutory manager is in control of the relevant
business of the payment entity under section 78(2)(c) —

     (a) the act or purported act of the individual is invalid and of
          no effect; and

     (b) the individual shall be guilty of an offence.

 (8) Despite any written law or rule of law, if any individual, who is
appointed as chief executive officer or director of a payment entity in

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                156

contravention of subsection (5), acts or purports to act as chief
executive officer or director of the payment entity during the period
when the Authority or statutory manager is in control of the relevant
business of the payment entity under section 78(2)(c) —

(a) the act or purported act of the individual is invalid and of
     no effect; and

(b) the individual shall be guilty of an offence.

 (9) During the period when the Authority or statutory manager is in
control of the relevant business of a payment entity —

(a) if there is any conflict or inconsistency between —

          (i) a direction or decision given by the Authority or
              statutory manager (including a direction or decision
              given to a person or body of persons mentioned in
              sub‑paragraph (ii)); and

          (ii) a direction or decision given by any chief executive
               officer, director, member, executive officer,
               employee, agent or office‑holder of the payment
               entity, by the board of directors of the payment entity,
               or by any trustee for the payment entity,

(a) the direction or decision mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i)
     prevails over the direction or decision mentioned in
     sub‑paragraph (ii) to the extent of the conflict or
     inconsistency; and

(b) a person must not exercise any voting or other right
     attached to any share in the payment entity in any manner
     that may defeat or interfere with any duty, power or
     function of the Authority or statutory manager, and any
     such exercise or purported exercise of that right is invalid
     and of no effect.

 (10) An individual who is guilty of an offence under subsection (7)
or (8) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $125,000 or
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $12,500

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
157  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

Other provisions concerning control

 81.—(1) The Authority must cease to be in control of the relevant
business of a payment entity when the Authority is satisfied that the
reasons for the Authority’s assumption of control of the relevant
business have ceased to exist.

 (2) A statutory manager is deemed to have assumed control of the
relevant business of a payment entity on the date of the statutory
manager’s appointment as a statutory manager.

 (3) Without limiting section 78(4)(a), the Authority may at any
time revoke the appointment of a statutory manager in relation to the
relevant business of a payment entity —

       (a) if the Authority is satisfied that the reasons for the
            appointment have ceased to exist; or

       (b) on any other ground.

 (4) The statutory manager ceases to be in control of the relevant
business of the payment entity upon the revocation of the statutory
manager’s appointment under subsection (3) or section 78(4)(a).

 (5) The Authority must publish in the Gazette the date, and such
other particulars as the Authority thinks fit, of —

       (a) the Authority’s assumption of control of the relevant
            business of a payment entity;

       (b) the cessation of the Authority’s control of the relevant
            business of a payment entity;

       (c) the appointment of a statutory manager in relation to the
            relevant business of a payment entity; and

       (d) the revocation of a statutory manager’s appointment in
            relation to the relevant business of a payment entity.

Responsibilities of directors, officers, etc., of payment entity

 82.—(1) During the period when the Authority or statutory
manager is in control of the relevant business of a payment entity —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                158

(a) a relevant person must provide to the Authority or statutory
     manager, within such time and in such manner as the
     Authority or statutory manager may specify, such
     information as the Authority or statutory manager may
     require to discharge the duties or functions, or exercise the
     powers, of the Authority or statutory manager in relation to
     the payment entity; and

(b) the General Division of the High Court may, on an
     application by the Authority or statutory manager, direct
     any relevant person to pay, deliver, convey, surrender or
     transfer to the Authority or statutory manager, within such
     period as the General Division of the High Court may
     specify, any property or book of the payment entity that —

          (i) forms part of or relates to the business of the payment
              entity; and

            (ii) is in the relevant person’s possession or control.

                                                                                                         [40/2019]

(2) A person that —

(a) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
     subsection (1)(a); or

(b) in purported compliance with subsection (1)(a), knowingly
     or recklessly provides any information or document that is
     false or misleading in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of a day during which
the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) In this section, “relevant person” means a current or former
chief executive officer, director, executive officer, employee, agent,
banker, auditor or office‑holder of, or trustee for, the payment entity
mentioned in subsection (1).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
159  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

Remuneration and expenses of Authority and others in certain
cases

 83. The Authority may at any time fix the remuneration and
expenses to be paid by a payment entity —

     (a) to a statutory adviser or statutory manager appointed in
          relation to the payment entity, whether or not the
          appointment has been revoked; and

     (b) where the Authority has assumed control of the relevant
          business of a payment entity, to the Authority and any
          person appointed by the Authority under section 4 in
          relation to the Authority’s assumption of control of the
          relevant business, whether or not the Authority has ceased
          to be in control of the relevant business.

                                    PART 6

  ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN REGULATORY AUTHORITIES

Interpretation of this Part

 84. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “enforce” means enforce through criminal or administrative
         proceedings;

      “enforcement”, in relation to a regulatory authority, means the
         taking of any action to enforce a law or regulatory
         requirement against a specified person, being a law or
         regulatory requirement that relates to the payment systems or
         payment services of the foreign country of the regulatory
         authority concerned;

      “foreign country” means a country or territory other than
         Singapore;

      “investigation”, in relation to a regulatory authority, means an
         investigation to determine if a specified person has
         contravened or is contravening a law or regulatory
         requirement, being a law or regulatory requirement that

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                160

          relates to the payment systems or payment services of the
          foreign country of the regulatory authority concerned;

“material” includes any information, book, document or other
   record in any form whatsoever, and any container or article
   relating to that information, book, document or record;

“prescribed written law” means this Act, or any of the following
   Acts, and any subsidiary legislation made under this Act or
   those Acts:

          (a) Banking Act 1970;

          (b) Finance Companies Act 1967;

          (c) Financial Advisers Act 2001;

          (d) Financial Holding Companies Act 2013;

          (da) Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

                                                                       [Act 18 of 2022 wef 28/04/2023]

           (e) Insurance Act 1966;

          (f) Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970;

          (g) Securities and Futures Act 2001;

          (h) such other Act as the Authority may prescribe;

“regulatory authority”, in relation to a foreign country, means an
   authority of the foreign country exercising any function that
   corresponds to a regulatory function of the Authority under
   this Act;

“supervision”, in relation to a regulatory authority, means the
   taking of any action for or in connection with the supervision
   of —

          (a) a licensee that is regulated by the regulatory
               authority;

          (b) an operator, a settlement institution or a participant,
               of a designated payment system, that is regulated by
               the regulatory authority; or

          (c) any other person regulated by the regulatory
              authority.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
161  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

Conditions for provision of assistance

 85.—(1) The Authority may provide the assistance mentioned in
section 87 to a regulatory authority of a foreign country if the
Authority is satisfied that all of the following conditions are fulfilled:

     (a) the assistance is intended to enable the regulatory
          authority, or any other authority of the foreign country,
          to carry out the supervision, investigation or enforcement;

     (b) the regulatory authority has given a written undertaking
          that any material or copy of material obtained pursuant to
          its request will not be used for any purpose other than a
          purpose that is specified in the request and approved by the
          Authority;

     (c) the regulatory authority has given a written undertaking
         not to disclose to a third party (other than a designated third
         party of the foreign country in accordance with
         paragraph (d)) any material received pursuant to the
         request, unless the regulatory authority is compelled to
         do so by the law or a court of the foreign country;

     (d) the regulatory authority has given a written undertaking to
          obtain the prior consent of the Authority before disclosing
          any material received pursuant to the request to a
          designated third party, and to make such disclosure only
          in accordance with such conditions as may be imposed by
          the Authority;

     (e) the material requested is of sufficient importance to the
         carrying out of the supervision, investigation or
         enforcement to which the request relates, and cannot
         reasonably be obtained by any other means;

     (f) the matter to which the request relates is of sufficient
         gravity;

     (g) the rendering of assistance will not be contrary to the
          public interest.

 (2) In subsection (1)(c) and (d), “designated third party”, in relation
to a foreign country, means —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                162

(a) any person or body responsible for supervising the
     regulatory authority in question;

(b) any authority of the foreign country responsible for
     carrying out the supervision, investigation or
     enforcement in question; or

          (c) any authority of the foreign country exercising a function
              that corresponds to a regulatory function of the Authority
              under this Act.

Other factors to consider for provision of assistance

 86. In deciding whether to grant a request for assistance mentioned
in section 87 from a regulatory authority of a foreign country, the
Authority may also have regard to the following:

       (a) whether the act or omission that is alleged to constitute the
            contravention of the law or regulatory requirement to
            which the request relates would, if it had occurred in
            Singapore, have constituted an offence under this Act;

       (b) whether the regulatory authority has given or is willing to
            give an undertaking to the Authority to comply with a
            future request by the Authority to the regulatory authority
            for similar assistance;

       (c) whether the regulatory authority has given or is willing to
            give an undertaking to the Authority to contribute towards
            the costs of providing the assistance that the regulatory
            authority has requested.

Assistance that may be rendered

 87.—(1) Despite any provision of or requirement under any
prescribed written law, or any rule of law, the Authority or any
person authorised by the Authority may, in relation to a request by a
regulatory authority of a foreign country for assistance —

       (a) transmit to the regulatory authority any material in the
            possession of the Authority that is requested by the
            regulatory authority or a copy of that material;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
163  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     (b) order any person to provide to the Authority any material
          that is requested by the regulatory authority or a copy of
          that material, and transmit the material or copy to the
          regulatory authority;

     (c) order any person to transmit directly to the regulatory
         authority any material that is requested by the regulatory
         authority or a copy of that material;

     (d) order any person to make an oral statement to the Authority
          on any information requested by the regulatory authority,
          record such statement, and transmit the recorded statement
          to the regulatory authority; or

     (e) request any ministry, Government department or statutory
         authority to provide to the Authority any material that is
         requested by the regulatory authority or a copy of that
         material, and transmit the material or copy to the
         regulatory authority.

 (2) The assistance mentioned in subsection (1)(c) may only be
rendered if the material sought is to enable the regulatory authority to
carry out an investigation or enforcement.

 (3) An order under subsection (1)(b), (c) or (d) has effect despite
any obligations as to secrecy or other restrictions upon the disclosure
of information imposed by any provision of or requirement under any
prescribed written law, rule of law, contract or rule of professional
conduct.

 (4) Nothing in this section compels an advocate and solicitor to
provide or transmit any material or copy of material that contains, or
to disclose, any privileged communication made by or to the advocate
and solicitor in that capacity.

 (5) An advocate and solicitor who refuses to provide or transmit
any material or copy of material that contains, or to disclose, any
privileged communication is nevertheless obliged to give the name
and address (if known to the advocate and solicitor) of the person to
whom, or by or on behalf of whom, the privileged communication
was made.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                164

 (6) A person is not excused from making an oral statement pursuant
to an order made under subsection (1)(d) on the ground that the
statement might tend to incriminate the person.

Offences under this Part

 88.—(1) A person that —

       (a) without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to comply with
            an order under section 87(1)(b), (c) or (d);

       (b) in purported compliance with an order made under
            section 87(1)(b) or (c), provides to the Authority or
            transmits to a regulatory authority any material or copy
            of material known to the person to be false or misleading in
            a material particular; or

       (c) in purported compliance with an order made under
            section 87(1)(d), makes a statement to the Authority that
            is false or misleading in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) A person that is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)(a)
shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $50,000
            or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
            both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
            fine not exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of a day
            during which the offence continues after conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) A person that is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)(b) or
(c) shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $50,000
            or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
            both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
165         Payment Services Act 2019                         2020 Ed.

Immunities

 89.—(1) No civil or criminal proceedings, other than proceedings
for an offence under section 88, shall lie against any person for —

     (a) providing to the Authority or transmitting any material or
          copy of material to the Authority or a regulatory authority
          of a foreign country, if that person had provided or
          transmitted that material or copy in good faith in
          compliance with an order made under section 87(1)(b)
          or (c);

     (b) making a statement to the Authority in good faith and in
          compliance with an order made under section 87(1)(d); or

     (c) doing or omitting to do any act, if that person had done or
         omitted to do the act in good faith and as a result of
         complying with an order made under section 87(1)(b), (c)
         or (d).

 (2) A person that complies with an order made under
section 87(1)(b), (c) or (d) is not to be treated as being in breach of
any restriction upon the disclosure of information or thing imposed
by any provision of or requirement under any prescribed written law,
rule of law, contract or rule of professional conduct.

                                    PART 7

                                  OFFENCES

Offences by corporations

 90.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.      Payment Services Act 2019                            166

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

(a) who is —

          (i) an officer of the corporation; or

          (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
               corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
               of the corporation in relation to the commission of
               the offence; and

(b) who —

          (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
              effect the commission of the offence;

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the corporation; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
     regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
167  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

(6) In this section —

     “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
        meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
        Act 2005;

     “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
        partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
        officer of the corporation, and includes —

     (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

     (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
          members, any of those members as if the member
          were a director of the corporation;

     “state of mind” of a person includes —

     (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
          of the person; and

     (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
          or purpose.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 91.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.   Payment Services Act 2019                               168

          (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

          (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                position to influence the conduct of the
                unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                offence; and

(b) who —

          (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
              effect the commission of the offence;

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the unincorporated
               association or partnership; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the unincorporated association or
                partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
     regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
169  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

     “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
        a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
        member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
        and includes —

     (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
          president, secretary or member of a committee of the
          unincorporated association; and

     (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

     “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

     “state of mind” of a person includes —

     (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
          of the person; and

     (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
          or purpose.

Offences by officers

 92.—(1) An officer of a relevant entity, whose duty is or includes
ensuring that the relevant entity complies with a provision of this Act,
who fails to take all reasonable steps to secure such compliance, shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (2) An officer of a relevant entity, whose duty is or includes
submitting information to the Authority or any other person under
this Act, who fails to take all reasonable steps to ensure the accuracy
and correctness of any information so submitted, shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                170

 (3) In any proceedings against an officer under subsection (1) or
(2), it is a defence for the officer to prove that he or she had reasonable
grounds for believing that —

(a) another individual was charged with the duty of —

          (i) securing compliance with the requirements of this
              Act; or

          (ii) ensuring that the information submitted was
               accurate,

(a) as the case may be; and

(b) that individual was competent, and in a position, to
     discharge that duty.

 (4) An officer is not to be sentenced to imprisonment for any
offence under subsection (1) or (2) unless, in the opinion of the court,
the officer committed the offence wilfully.

(5) In this section, “relevant entity” means an entity that is —

(a) a licensee; or

(b) an operator, a settlement institution, or a participant, of a
     payment system.

Falsification of records by officers, etc.

 93.—(1) An officer, auditor, employee or agent of a relevant entity
who —

       (a) wilfully makes, or causes to be made, a false entry in any
            book, or in any report, slip, document or statement of the
            business, affairs, transactions, conditions or assets of the
            relevant entity;

       (b) wilfully omits to make an entry in any book, or in any
            report, slip, document or statement of the business, affairs,
            transactions, conditions or assets of the relevant entity, or
            wilfully causes any such entry to be omitted; or

       (c) wilfully alters, extracts, conceals or destroys an entry in
            any book, or in any report, slip, document or statement of
            the business, affairs, transactions, conditions or assets of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
171  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     the relevant entity, or wilfully causes any such entry to be
     altered, extracted, concealed or destroyed,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both.

(2) In this section —

     “officer” includes a person purporting to act in the capacity of an
        officer;

     “relevant entity” means an entity that is —

     (a) a licensee; or

     (b) an operator, a settlement institution, or a participant,
          of a payment system.

General duty to use reasonable care not to provide false
information to Authority

 94.—(1) A person who provides the Authority with any
information under or for the purposes of any provision of this Act
must use reasonable care to ensure that the information is not false or
misleading in any material particular.

                                                                                 [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

 (1A) Subsection (1) applies only where no other provision of this
Act creates an offence in connection with the provision of
information that is false or misleading in a material particular.

                                                                                 [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

 (2) A person who —

       (a) signs any document lodged with the Authority; or

       (b) lodges with the Authority any document by electronic
            means using any identification or identifying code,
            password or other authentication method or procedure
            assigned to the individual by the Authority,

must use reasonable care to ensure that the document is not false or
misleading in any material particular.

                                                                                 [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                172

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $50,000
     or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
     both; or

(b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

                                                                      [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

General penalty

 95. A person guilty of an offence under this Act for which no
penalty is expressly provided shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $50,000; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

Composition of offences

 96.—(1) The Authority may compound any offence under this Act
that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
of money not exceeding half of the amount of the maximum fine
prescribed for that offence.

 (2) The Authority may compound any offence under this Act
(including an offence under a provision that has been repealed)
that —

       (a) was compoundable under this section when the offence
            was committed; but

       (b) has ceased to be so compoundable,

by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum of money not exceeding half of the
amount of the maximum fine prescribed for that offence at the time it
was committed.

 (3) Despite the repeal of the Money‑changing and Remittance
Businesses Act (Cap. 187, 2008 Revised Edition), the Authority may

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
173  Payment Services Act 2019              2020 Ed.

compound any offence under that Act (including an offence under a
provision that has been repealed) that —

     (a) was compoundable under section 29 of that Act when the
          offence was committed; but

     (b) has ceased to be so compoundable,

by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum of money not exceeding half of the
amount of the maximum fine prescribed for that offence at the time it
was committed.

 (4) Despite the repeal of the Payment Systems (Oversight) Act
(Cap. 222A, 2007 Revised Edition), the Authority may compound
any offence under that Act (including an offence under a provision
that has been repealed) that —

     (a) was compoundable under section 50 of that Act when the
          offence was committed; but

     (b) has ceased to be so compoundable,

by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum of money not exceeding half of the
amount of the maximum fine prescribed for that offence at the time it
was committed.

 (5) On payment of the sum of money mentioned in subsection (1),
(2), (3) or (4), no further proceedings may be taken against that
person in respect of the offence.

 (6) All sums collected by the Authority under subsection (1), (2),
(3) or (4) must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                    PART 8
                             MISCELLANEOUS
Jurisdiction of court
 97. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment in
respect of any offence under this Act.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                174

Opportunity to be heard

 98. Where this Act provides for a person to be given an opportunity
to be heard by the Authority, the Authority may prescribe the manner
in which the person is to be given such opportunity to be heard.

Power of court to make certain orders

 99.—(1) Where, on an application of the Authority, it appears to the
court that a person —

       (a) has committed an offence under this Act; or

       (b) is about to do an act that, if done, would be an offence
            under this Act,

the court may (without prejudice to any other order it may make)
make one or more of the orders under subsection (2).

 (2) The orders mentioned in subsection (1) are —

       (a) in the case of a persistent or continuing contravention of a
            provision of this Act, an order restraining a person from —

               (i) carrying on a business of providing one or more
                   types of payment services;

              (ii) carrying on the business of an operator of a payment
                   system;

             (iii) carrying on the business of a settlement institution of
                   a payment system;

             (iv) holding itself out as a licensee; or

              (v) holding itself out as an operator, or a settlement
                   institution, of a designated payment system;

       (b) for the purpose of securing compliance with any order
            made under this section, an order directing a person to do
            or refrain from doing any specified act; or

       (c) any ancillary order the court considers to be desirable as a
            result of making any other order under this section.

 (3) The court may, before making an order under subsection (2),
direct that notice of the application be given to such person as it thinks

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
175  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

fit or that notice of the application be published in such manner as it
thinks fit, or both.

 (4) A person that, without reasonable excuse, contravenes an order
made under subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction —

     (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $50,000
          or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
          both; or

     (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

 (5) Subject to subsection (6), subsection (4) does not affect the
powers of the court in relation to the punishment of contempt of court.

 (6) A person cannot be punished for contempt of court in respect of
any contravention of an order made under subsection (2), for which
the person has been convicted of an offence under subsection (4).

 (7) A person cannot be convicted of an offence under subsection (4)
in respect of any contravention of an order made under subsection (2)
that has been punished as a contempt of court.

 (8) The court may rescind, vary or discharge, or suspend the
operation of, an order made by the court under this section.

General exemption
 100.—(1) The Authority may, by regulations, exempt any of the

following from all or any of the provisions of this Act, subject to such
conditions as may be prescribed:

       (a) any person or class of persons;
       (b) any payment service or class of payment services;
       (c) any payment system or class of payment systems;
       (d) any payment account or class of payment accounts;
       (e) any shares or interests in shares, or class or description of

            shares or interests in shares;
        (f) any other thing or class or description of things.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                176

 (2) Where the Authority, by regulations made under subsection (1),
exempts any person or class of persons from section 20(1) and (3), the
conditions that may be prescribed under subsection (1) include the
following conditions:

(a) a condition relating to the operations or activities of the
     exempt person, or of any person in the exempt class of
     persons;

(b) a condition relating to the criteria that must be satisfied in
     order for the exempt person, or any person in the exempt
     class of persons, to grant any credit facility (within the
     meaning given by section 20(5)) to any individual in
     Singapore;

          (c) a condition relating to the standards to be maintained by
              the exempt person, or by any person in the exempt class of
              persons, when carrying on a business of granting any such
              credit facility to any individual in Singapore;

(d) a condition relating to the duties to be undertaken by the
     exempt person, or by any person in the exempt class of
     persons, when doing any of the following things:

          (i) granting any such credit facility to any individual in
              Singapore;

          (ii) offering to grant, or issuing any advertisement
               containing any offer to grant, any such credit
               facility to any individual in Singapore;

          (iii) making an offer or invitation, or issuing any
                advertisement containing any offer or invitation, to
                any individual in Singapore to enter into any
                agreement relating to the granting of any such
                credit facility to that individual;

          (e) a condition relating to the maintenance by the exempt
              person, or by any person in the exempt class of persons, of
              a licence, under any other written law, that allows that
              person to carry on a business of granting any credit facility
              to any individual in Singapore.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
177  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

 (3) Where the Authority, by regulations made under subsection (1),
exempts any person or class of persons from section 28 or 59, the
conditions that may be prescribed under subsection (1) include the
following conditions:

     (a) a condition restricting the disposal or further acquisition,
          by that person or class of persons, of any shares or voting
          power in —

     (i) a licensee incorporated in Singapore (in the case of
         an exemption from section 28); or

     (ii) an operator of a designated payment system (in the
          case of an exemption from section 59);

     (b) a condition restricting the exercise, by that person or class
          of persons, of any voting power in —

     (i) a licensee incorporated in Singapore (in the case of
         an exemption from section 28); or

     (ii) an operator of a designated payment system (in the
          case of an exemption from section 59).

 (4) The Authority may, if the Authority considers it appropriate to
do so in the circumstances of the case, on the application of any
person, exempt the person from —

     (a) all or any of the provisions of this Act; or

     (b) all or any of the requirements imposed by the Authority
          under this Act.

(5) An exemption under subsection (4) —

     (a) may be granted by written notice subject to such conditions
          as the Authority may specify in that notice;

     (b) need not be published in the Gazette; and

     (c) may be revoked at any time by the Authority.

 (6) The Authority may at any time add to, vary or revoke any
condition imposed under this section.

 (7) A person shall be guilty of an offence if the person contravenes
any condition —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                178

(a) prescribed under subsection (1);

(b) specified by the Authority under subsection (5)(a); or

          (c) added or varied under subsection (6).

Codes, guidelines, etc., by Authority

 101.—(1) The Authority may issue, and in its discretion publish by
notification in the Gazette or in any other manner the Authority
considers appropriate, such codes, guidelines, policy statements,
practice notes and no‑action letters as the Authority considers
appropriate for providing guidance —

       (a) in furtherance of the Authority’s regulatory objectives;

       (b) in relation to any matter relating to any of the Authority’s
            functions under this Act; or

       (c) in relation to the operation of any of the provisions of this
            Act.

 (2) The Authority may amend or revoke the whole or any part of
any code, guideline, policy statement, practice note or no‑action letter
issued under this section.

 (3) Where amendments are made under subsection (2) —

       (a) the other provisions of this section apply, with the
            necessary modifications, to such amendments as they
            apply to the code, guideline, policy statement, practice note
            or no‑action letter; and

       (b) any reference in this Act or any other written law to the
            code, guideline, policy statement, practice note or
            no‑action letter, however expressed, is (unless the
            context otherwise requires) a reference to the code,
            guideline, policy statement, practice note or no‑action
            letter as so amended.

 (4) Any failure by a person to comply with any provision of a code,
guideline, policy statement or practice note issued under this section
to the person does not of itself render that person liable to criminal
proceedings, but any such failure may, in any proceedings, whether
civil or criminal, be relied upon by any party to the proceedings as

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
179  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

tending to establish or negate any liability that is in question in the
proceedings.

 (5) The issue by the Authority of a no‑action letter does not of itself
prevent the institution of any proceedings against any person for the
contravention of any provision of this Act.

 (6) Any code, guideline, policy statement or practice note issued
under this section may be of general or specific application, and may
specify that different provisions of such code, guideline, policy
statement or practice note apply to different circumstances or provide
for different cases or classes of cases.

 (7) To avoid doubt, any code, guideline, policy statement, practice
note or no‑action letter issued under this section is not to be treated as
subsidiary legislation.

 (8) In this section, “no‑action letter” means a letter written by the
Authority to a person to the effect that, if the facts are as represented
by the person, the Authority will not institute proceedings against the
person in respect of a particular state of affairs or particular conduct.

Power of Authority to issue written notice

 102.—(1) The Authority may, if it thinks it necessary or expedient
for the effective administration of this Act, for the protection of
consumers or in the interest of the public or a section of the public, for
ensuring the integrity and proper management of a designated
payment system, or for ensuring the integrity of the e‑money stored in
a payment account, issue to any of the following persons or classes of
persons a written notice, either of a general or a specific nature, to
comply with such requirements as the Authority may specify in the
notice:

       (a) any licensee or class of licensees;

       (b) any operator, or class of operators, of a relevant payment
            system;

       (c) any settlement institution, or class of settlement
            institutions, of a relevant payment system;

       (d) any participant, or class of participants, of a relevant
            payment system;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                180

          (e) any person, or class of persons, that determines access to a
              relevant payment system;

          (f) any exempt payment service provider or class of exempt
              payment service providers;

(g) any person, or class of persons, exempt under section 100;

(h) any person that contravenes, has contravened, or is likely
     to contravene, any provision of this Act.

(2) Without limiting subsection (1), a notice may be issued —

(a) with respect to —

          (i) the activities that may be carried out by a licensee, an
              exempt payment service provider, or a person
              exempt under section 100, in relation to its business;

          (ii) the standards, framework, policies and procedures
               for the prudent management of risks (including
               information technology risks) by a licensee, an
               exempt payment service provider or a person
               exempt under section 100, or by an operator or a
               settlement institution of a designated payment
               system;

          (iii) the financial soundness, financial management and
                stability of a licensee, an exempt payment service
                provider or a person exempt under section 100, or of
                an operator, a settlement institution or a participant
                of a designated payment system;

          (iv) the standards to be maintained by a licensee, an
               exempt payment service provider, or a person
               exempt under section 100, in the conduct of its
               business;

          (v) the arrangement and conditions that are to apply if a
               licensee, an exempt payment service provider or a
               person exempt under section 100, or an operator, a
               settlement institution or a participant of a designated
               payment system, appoints any person as an
               independent contractor to carry out any of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
181  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     functions and duties of the licensee, exempt payment
     service provider, person exempt under section 100,
     operator, settlement institution or participant, as the
     case may be;

     (vi) the type, form, manner and frequency of returns and
          other information to be submitted to the Authority;

     (vii) the preparation and publication of reports on the
           performance of a licensee, an exempt payment
           service provider or a person exempt under
           section 100, or of an operator, a settlement
           institution or a participant of a designated payment
           system;

     (viii) the remuneration of an auditor appointed under this
            Act and the costs of an audit carried out under this
            Act;

     (ix) any measures to be taken by any of the following
          persons or classes of persons to address any
          discriminatory measure practised by one or more
          of those persons or classes of persons:

     (A) any operator, or class of operators, of a relevant
          payment system;

     (B) any settlement institution, or class of
          settlement institutions, of a relevant payment
          system;

     (C) any participant, or class of participants, of a
          relevant payment system;

     (D) any person, or class of persons, that determines
          access to a relevant payment system;

     (x) the appointment of a person approved by the
          Authority —

     (A) to advise an operator, a settlement institution or
          a participant of a designated payment system
          on the proper conduct of its business; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                182

          (B) to advise a class of participants of a designated
               payment system on the proper conduct of the
               business of a participant in that class of
               participants;

          (xi) the collection by or on behalf of the Authority of
               information from a licensee, an exempt payment
               service provider or a person exempt under
               section 100, or from an operator, a settlement
               institution or a participant of a designated payment
               system, in relation to the conduct of its business at
               such intervals or on such occasions as may be set out
               in the notice;

          (xii) the manner in which a licensee, an exempt payment
                service provider or a person exempt under
                section 100, or an operator, a settlement institution
                or a participant of a designated payment system,
                deals with its customers, and any conflicts of
                interests between the licensee, exempt payment
                service provider, person exempt under section 100,
                operator, settlement institution or participant (as the
                case may be) and its customers;

          (xiii) the duties of a licensee, an exempt payment service
                 provider, or a person exempt under section 100, to its
                 customers in the operation of payment accounts
                 maintained for those customers (including duties in
                 relation to the foreign exchange rate to be applied,
                 where the currency for which the licensee, exempt
                 payment service provider or person exempt under
                 section 100 maintains a payment account for a
                 customer is different from the currency received for
                 payment into that payment account);

          (xiv) the duties of a licensee, an exempt payment service
                 provider, or a person exempt under section 100, to its
                 customers in relation to the safeguarding of money
                 under section 23 (including duties in relation to the
                 foreign exchange rate to be applied, where the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
183  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     currency in which the money is safeguarded is
     different from the currency received by the licensee,
     exempt payment service provider or person exempt
     under section 100 from, or on account of, a
     customer);

     (xv) the display or exhibition by a licensee, an exempt
           payment service provider, or a person exempt under
           section 100, of such cautionary statements as the
           Authority thinks fit in a conspicuous place at every
           place of business of the licensee, exempt payment
           service provider or person exempt under section 100;
           and

     (xvi) the provision by a licensee, an exempt payment
            service provider, or a person exempt under
            section 100, of cautionary statements in writing to
            the customers of the licensee, exempt payment
            service provider or person exempt under section 100;

     (b) to require any person that contravenes, has contravened, or
          is likely to contravene, any provision of this Act —

     (i) to comply with, or to cease contravening, that
         provision;

     (ii) to take any action necessary to enable the person to
          conduct the person’s business in accordance with
          sound principles; and

     (iii) where the person is a company, to remove any of its
           directors; and

     (c) for any other purpose specified in this Act.

 (3) It is not necessary to publish any written notice issued under
subsection (1) in the Gazette.

 (4) The Authority may at any time vary, rescind or revoke any
notice issued under subsection (1).

 (5) A person that fails to comply with any requirement specified in
a notice issued under subsection (1) shall (if the failure to comply
with that requirement is not an offence under any other provision of

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                184

this Act) be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence,
to a further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (6) In this section, “discriminatory measure” means any measure
that is, or is likely to be, not equally disadvantageous or advantageous
to all participants of the relevant payment system, in that the
measure —

(a) prejudices or benefits one or more of those participants to a
     greater extent than the other participants; or

(b) prejudices or benefits one or more of those participants
     without affecting the other participants.

Power of Authority to make regulations

 103.—(1) The Authority may make regulations prescribing matters
required or permitted by this Act to be prescribed, or necessary or
convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this
Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may make
regulations for or with respect to —

       (a) the fees to be paid in respect of any matter or thing required
            for the purposes of this Act, and the refund or remission of
            the whole or any part of any such fees;

       (b) the granting, variation, change, lapsing, surrender,
            revocation or suspension of a licence, and all incidental
            matters;

       (c) the cessation of the provision of a payment service by a
            licensee, an exempt payment service provider or a person
            exempt under section 100, and all incidental matters;

       (d) the activities that may be carried out by an operator, a
            settlement institution or a participant of a designated
            payment system, in relation to its business;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
185  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     (e) the standards to be maintained by an operator, a settlement
         institution or a participant of a designated payment system
         in the conduct of its business;

     (f) any measures to be taken by an operator, a settlement
         institution, or a participant or class of participants, of a
         designated payment system in relation to its business;

     (g) the standards, framework, policies and procedures for
          business continuity management (including for ensuring
          the availability of a designated payment system by the
          maintenance of a backup system) by an operator or a
          settlement institution of a designated payment system;

     (h) the corporate governance of a licensee, an exempt payment
          service provider or a person exempt under section 100, or
          of an operator or a settlement institution of a designated
          payment system;

     (i) prescribing the offences that may be compounded;

     (j) prescribing the procedure —

     (i) for the use of the electronic service mentioned in
         section 106; and

     (ii) in circumstances where there is a breakdown or an
          interruption of the electronic service;

     (k) the imposition, variation or revocation of an access regime;

     (l) the acquisition or holding of shares or any other interest in
         an operator of a designated payment system;

     (m) the acquisition or holding of shares or any other interest by
          an operator of a designated payment system in any other
          entity;

     (n) different requirements for the audit of accounts in relation
          to different designated payment systems;

     (o) the responsibilities of an operator or a settlement
          institution of a designated payment system in relation to
          the audit of its accounts;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                186

(p) the procedures applicable in the event of a default in any
     payment obligations facilitated by a designated payment
     system, including the suspension and re‑admission of any
     participants of the designated payment system; and

(q) the determination, for the purposes of this Act, of the
     equivalent in foreign currency of a Singapore dollar
     amount, including the exchange rate and time at which
     the amount of foreign currency is to be translated to
     Singapore currency.

 (3) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, regulations
made under this Act —

(a) may be of general or specific application;

(aa) may relate to all, or any class, category or description of
      persons or payment services, and may make different
      provisions for different classes, categories or descriptions
      of persons or payment services or to a particular person or
      payment service;

                                                                        [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

 (b) may contain such saving and transitional provisions as the
      Authority may consider necessary or expedient;

          (c) may provide that a contravention of any specified
              provision of the regulations shall be an offence; and

(d) may provide —

          (i) in the case of an individual, for penalties not
              exceeding a fine of $50,000 or imprisonment for a
              term not exceeding 2 years or both for each offence
              and, in the case of a continuing offence, a further
              penalty not exceeding a fine of $5,000 for every day
              or part of a day during which the offence continues
              after conviction; and

          (ii) in any other case, for penalties not exceeding a fine
               of $100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence,
               a further penalty not exceeding a fine of $10,000 for
               every day or part of a day during which the offence
               continues after conviction.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
187  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

Publication of certain information

 104.—(1) The Authority may, from time to time, prepare and
publish —

     (a) consolidated statements aggregating any information
          provided under this Act; or

     (b) for statistical purposes, statements that relate to or are
          derived from any information provided under this Act in
          respect of —

     (i) a payment system, being the only payment system in
         its class; or

     (ii) a payment service provided by a licensee, being the
          only payment service in its class.

 (2) The Authority may, from time to time and in such form or
manner as the Authority considers appropriate, publish such
information as the Authority may consider necessary or expedient
to publish in the public interest, including information relating to all
or any of the following:

     (a) the lapsing, surrender, revocation or suspension of the
          licence of any person under section 11;

     (b) the acceptance by any person of an offer to compound an
          offence under section 96;

     (c) the revocation or withdrawal of any exemption granted
         under this Act;

     (d) the conviction of any person for any offence under this
          Act;

     (e) any other action taken by the Authority against any person
         under this Act.

Service of documents

 105.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                188

(a) by giving it to the individual personally;

(b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
     specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
     if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
     address or business address;

          (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
              adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
              business address with an adult apparently employed there;

(d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
     at the individual’s residential address or business address;

          (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
              person giving or serving the document as the fax number
              for the service of documents on the individual; or

          (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
              address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

(a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer of the
     partnership;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the business address of the partnership;

          (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the business
              address of the partnership; or

(d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the
     partnership.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

(a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
     body corporate or unincorporated association, or to the
     manager of the limited liability partnership;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
189  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
          to, the registered office or principal office of the body
          corporate or unincorporated association;

     (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the registered
         office or principal office of the body corporate or
         unincorporated association; or

     (d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
          corporate or unincorporated association.

 (5) Service of a document under subsection (2), (3) or (4) takes
effect —

     (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
          successful transmission is received, on the day of
          transmission;

     (b) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
          after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
          undelivered); or

     (c) if the document is sent by email, at the time the email
         becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
         the document is sent.

 (6) A document may be served on a person under this Act by email
only with that person’s prior written consent.

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

(8) In this section —

     “business address” means —

     (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
          last known place of business, or place of
          employment, in Singapore; or

     (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
          liability partnership), the principal or last known
          place of business in Singapore of the partnership;

     “document” includes a notice permitted or required by this Act
        to be served;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                190

“last email address” means —

          (a) the last email address given, by the addressee
               concerned to the person giving or serving the
               document, as the email address for the service of
               documents under this Act; or

          (b) the last email address of the addressee concerned
               known to the person giving or serving the document;

“residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
   place of residence in Singapore.

Electronic service

 106.—(1) The Authority may provide an electronic service for the
service of any document that is required or authorised by this Act to
be served on any person.

 (2) For the purposes of the electronic service, the Authority may
assign to any person —

       (a) an authentication code; and

       (b) an account with the electronic service.

 (3) Despite section 105, where a person has given consent for any
document to be served on the person through the electronic service —

       (a) the Authority may serve the document on that person by
            transmitting an electronic record of the document to that
            person’s account with the electronic service; and

       (b) the document is treated as having been served at the time
            when an electronic record of the document enters the
            person’s account with the electronic service.

 (4) In this section —

      “account with the electronic service”, in relation to any person,
         means a computer account within the electronic service that
         is assigned by the Authority to the person for the storage and
         retrieval of electronic records relating to the person;

      “authentication code”, in relation to any person, means an
         identification or identifying code, a password or any other

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
191  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     authentication method or procedure that is assigned to the
     person for the purposes of identifying and authenticating the
     access to and use of the electronic service by the person;

     “document” includes a notice and an order;

     “electronic record” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
        Electronic Transactions Act 2010.

Amendment of Schedules

 107.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend, add to
or vary the First or Second Schedule.

 (2) The Minister may, in any order made under subsection (1),
make such incidental, consequential or supplementary provisions as
may be necessary or expedient.

 (3) Any order made under subsection (1) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

 108. [Omitted as having had effect]

                                    PART 9
      CONSEQUENTIAL AND RELATED AMENDMENTS

                             TO OTHER ACTS
 109. [Omitted as having had effect]
 110. [Omitted as having had effect]
 111. [Omitted as having had effect]
 112. [Omitted as having had effect]

Amendment of Financial Holding Companies Act 2013
 113. Section 53 of the Financial Holding Companies Act 2013

(Act 13 of 2013) is amended by deleting paragraph (f) of the
definition of “prescribed written law” and substituting the following
paragraph:

            “(f) Payment Services Act 2019;”.
 114. to 120. [Omitted as having had effect]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                192

                             PART 10

          SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

Interpretation of this Part

121. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

“approved bank” and “approved holder” have the meanings
   given by section 2(1) of the PSOA;

“MCRBA” means the Money‑changing and Remittance
   Businesses Act (Cap. 187, 2008 Revised Edition) as in
   force immediately before 28 January 2020;

“money‑changer’s licence” has the meaning given by
   section 2(1) of the MCRBA;

“PSOA” means the Payment Systems (Oversight) Act
   (Cap. 222A, 2007 Revised Edition) as in force immediately
   before 28 January 2020;

“remittance licence” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of
   the MCRBA;

“stored value facility” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of
   the PSOA.

Saving and transitional provisions for holders of licences under
MCRBA and approved holders of stored value facilities under
PSOA

 122.—(1) Any person that, immediately before 28 January 2020, is
a holder of a remittance licence, but is not also a holder of a
money‑changer’s licence or an approved holder of a stored value
facility —

       (a) is deemed to have been granted, on 28 January 2020, a
            major payment institution licence under section 6(7) that
            entitles that person to carry on a business of providing a
            cross‑border money transfer service; and

       (b) is exempt from section 23 for a period of 12 months
            beginning on 28 January 2020 in respect of any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
193  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     cross‑border money transfer service provided by that
     person.

 (2) Any person that, immediately before 28 January 2020, is a
holder of a money‑changer’s licence but is not also a holder of a
remittance licence or an approved holder of a stored value facility —

     (a) is deemed to have been granted, on 28 January 2020, a
          money‑changing licence under section 6(7); and

     (b) is exempt from section 23 for a period of 12 months
          beginning on 28 January 2020 in respect of any
          money‑changing service provided by that person.

 (3) Any person that, immediately before 28 January 2020, is an
approved holder of a stored value facility, but is not also a holder of a
remittance licence or a money‑changer’s licence, is deemed to have
been granted, on 28 January 2020, a major payment institution
licence under section 6(7) that entitles that person to carry on a
business of providing an e‑money issuance service.

 (4) Any person that, immediately before 28 January 2020, is a
holder of both a remittance licence and a money‑changer’s licence —

     (a) is deemed to have been granted, on 28 January 2020, a
          major payment institution licence under section 6(7) that
          entitles that person to carry on a business of providing both
          of the following services:

     (i) a cross‑border money transfer service;

     (ii) a money‑changing service; and

     (b) is exempt from section 23 for a period of 12 months
          beginning on 28 January 2020 in respect of any
          cross‑border money transfer service and any
          money‑changing service provided by that person.

 (5) Any person that, immediately before 28 January 2020, is both a
holder of a remittance licence and an approved holder of a stored
value facility —

     (a) is deemed to have been granted, on 28 January 2020, a
          major payment institution licence under section 6(7) that

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                194

          entitles that person to carry on a business of providing both
          of the following services:

          (i) a cross‑border money transfer service;

          (ii) an e‑money issuance service; and

(b) is exempt from section 23 for a period of 12 months
     beginning on 28 January 2020 in respect of any
     cross‑border money transfer service provided by that
     person.

 (6) Any person that, immediately before 28 January 2020, is both a
holder of a money‑changer’s licence and an approved holder of a
stored value facility —

(a) is deemed to have been granted, on 28 January 2020, a
     major payment institution licence under section 6(7) that
     entitles that person to carry on a business of providing both
     of the following services:

          (i) a money‑changing service;

          (ii) an e‑money issuance service; and

(b) is exempt from section 23 for a period of 12 months
     beginning on 28 January 2020 in respect of any
     money‑changing service provided by that person.

 (7) Any person that, immediately before 28 January 2020, is a
holder of both a remittance licence and a money‑changer’s licence
and an approved holder of a stored value facility —

(a) is deemed to have been granted, on 28 January 2020, a
     major payment institution licence under section 6(7) that
     entitles that person to carry on a business of providing all
     of the following services:

          (i) a cross‑border money transfer service;

          (ii) a money‑changing service;

          (iii) an e‑money issuance service; and

(b) is exempt from section 23 for a period of 12 months
     beginning on 28 January 2020 in respect of any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
195  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     cross‑border money transfer service and any
     money‑changing service provided by that person.

 (8) Every condition or restriction imposed under the MCRBA or
the PSOA to which a person mentioned in subsection (1), (2), (3), (4),
(5), (6) or (7) is subject, immediately before 28 January 2020, as a
holder of a remittance licence or a money‑changer’s licence or as an
approved holder of a stored value facility, is deemed, on 28 January
2020, to be a condition or restriction to which that person is subject as
the holder of a licence deemed to have been granted to that person
under the applicable subsection.

 (9) Any individual who, immediately before 28 January 2020, is a
chief executive officer, director or partner of a person mentioned in
subsection (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6) or (7) is deemed, on 28 January
2020, to have been appointed as chief executive officer, director or
partner (as the case may be) of that person with the approval of the
Authority under section 34(3)(b).

 (10) Any approval granted, and any condition imposed, under
section 11(3) of the MCRBA that remains in force immediately
before 28 January 2020 is deemed, on 28 January 2020, to be an
approval granted, and a condition imposed, under section 14(6).

Saving and transitional provisions for persons granted
exemptions under MCRBA or PSOA

 123.—(1) Any person that, immediately before 28 January 2020,
was exempt under section 31(3) of the MCRBA from the requirement
to hold a remittance licence is deemed, on 28 January 2020, to be
exempt under section 100(4) from sections 5(1) and 6(4) and (5) in
respect of any business of providing any cross‑border money transfer
service carried on by that person.

 (2) Any person that, immediately before 28 January 2020, was
exempt under section 31(3) of the MCRBA from the requirement to
hold a money‑changer’s licence is deemed, on 28 January 2020, to be
exempt under section 100(4) from sections 5(1) and 6(3), (4) and (5)
in respect of any business of providing any money‑changing service
carried on by that person.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                196

 (3) Any person that, immediately before 28 January 2020, was
exempt under section 53(2) of the PSOA from section 33(1) of the
PSOA is deemed, on 28 January 2020, to be exempt under
section 100(4) from sections 5(1) and 6(4) and (5) in respect of
any business of providing any e‑money issuance service carried on by
that person.

 (4) Any person that, immediately before 28 January 2020, was
exempt under section 53(2) of the PSOA from section 31 of the
PSOA is deemed, on 28 January 2020, to be exempt under
section 100(4) from section 9 in respect of any advertisement, offer
or invitation mentioned in section 9 relating to the provision by that
person of an e‑money issuance service, an account issuance service,
or both of those services.

 (5) Every condition or restriction imposed under the MCRBA or
the PSOA to which a person mentioned in subsection (1), (2), (3) or
(4) is subject, immediately before 28 January 2020 —

(a) as a person exempt under section 31(3) of the MCRBA
     from the requirement to hold a remittance licence or a
     money‑changer’s licence; or

(b) as a person exempt under section 53(2) of the PSOA from
     section 31 or 33(1) of the PSOA,

is deemed, on 28 January 2020, to be a condition or restriction to
which that person is subject as a person exempt under section 100(4).

Pending applications for licences and renewals under MCRBA
and pending applications for certain approvals under PSOA

 124.—(1) Any application for a renewal of a remittance licence or
money‑changer’s licence that is pending, immediately before
28 January 2020, is deemed to have been withdrawn on 28 January
2020, and the Authority must refund any fee paid for that application
to the applicant.

 (2) Any application for any of the following licences and approvals
that is pending, immediately before 28 January 2020, is deemed to
have been withdrawn on 28 January 2020, and the Authority must
refund any fee paid for that application to the applicant:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
197  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     (a) a remittance licence or money‑changer’s licence;

     (b) approval as an approved holder of a stored value facility;

     (c) approval as an approved bank in respect of a stored value
         facility.

Saving and transitional provisions for designated payment
systems

 125.—(1) Any payment system that, immediately before
28 January 2020, is a designated payment system under
section 7(1) of the PSOA is deemed, on 28 January 2020, to be a
designated payment system under section 42(1).

 (2) Any condition or restriction to which a person is subject,
immediately before 28 January 2020, in the person’s capacity as an
operator, a settlement institution or a participant of a designated
payment system under the PSOA, is deemed, on 28 January 2020, to
be a condition or restriction to which that person is subject under this
Act, only to the extent that the condition or restriction is consistent
with the provisions of this Act.

 (3) Any individual who, immediately before 28 January 2020, is a
chief executive officer or director of an operator of a designated
payment system under the PSOA is deemed, on 28 January 2020, to
have been appointed as chief executive officer or director (as the case
may be) of that operator with the approval of the Authority under
section 65(3)(b) of this Act.

 (4) Any approval mentioned in section 23(1) of the PSOA that
remains in force immediately before 28 January 2020 is deemed, on
28 January 2020, to be an approval under section 59(3) of an
application under section 59(1) to be a 5% controller of an operator of
a designated payment system.

 (5) Any approval mentioned in section 23(2) of the PSOA (for a
person to become a 12% controller of an operator of a designated
payment system) that remains in force immediately before 28 January
2020 is deemed, on 28 January 2020, to be an approval under
section 59(3) of an application under section 59(1) to be a
12% controller of an operator of a designated payment system.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                198

 (6) Any approval mentioned in section 23(2) of the PSOA (for a
person to become a 20% controller of an operator of a designated
payment system) that remains in force immediately before 28 January
2020 is deemed, on 28 January 2020, to be an approval under
section 59(3) of an application under section 59(1) to be a
20% controller of an operator of a designated payment system.

 (7) Any condition or restriction imposed under section 24 of the
PSOA for an approval mentioned in section 23(1) or (2) of the PSOA
is deemed, on 28 January 2020, to be a condition or restriction
imposed under section 59(4) for the corresponding approval under
section 59(3).

Other saving and transitional provisions

 126. For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of any
provision of this Act, the Minister may, by regulations, prescribe such
additional provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent to
the enactment of that provision as the Minister may consider
necessary or expedient.

                             FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                Sections 2(1) and (4) and 107(1)

                                  PAYMENT SERVICES
                                           PART 1

                   SERVICES THAT ARE PAYMENT SERVICES
 1. Except where Part 2 of this Schedule provides otherwise, each of the
following services is a payment service for the purposes of this Act:

        (a) an account issuance service;
        (b) a domestic money transfer service;
        (c) a cross‑border money transfer service;
        (d) a merchant acquisition service;
        (e) an e-money issuance service;
         (f) a digital payment token service;
        (g) a money‑changing service.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
199  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

     PART 2

     SERVICES THAT ARE NOT PAYMENT SERVICES

 2. Despite Part 1 of this Schedule, the following services are not payment
services for the purposes of this Act:

     (a) the service of executing a payment transaction on behalf of the payer or
          the payee, if performed by a commercial agent authorised to negotiate
          or conclude the sale or purchase of goods or services on behalf of the
          payer or the payee, as the case may be;

     (b) the service of executing a payment transaction based on any of the
          following documents, each being a document drawn on a person with a
          view to placing money at the disposal of the payee:

     (i) any cheque, cashier’s order, drawing voucher, dividend
         warrant, demand draft, remittance receipt, traveller’s cheque
         or gift cheque;

     (ii) any paper postal order;

     (c) the service of executing any payment transaction within a payment
         system or securities settlement system between any 2 or more
         participants of the system (each being a payment service provider,
         settlement agent, central counterparty, clearing house, central bank or
         any other participant of the system);

     (d) the service of executing any payment transaction between 2 or more
          persons (each being a payment services provider, an agent of that
          payment service provider, or a branch of that payment service
          provider), each of which acts for its own account in the payment
          transaction, in any case where the service is provided by one of those
          persons;

     (e) the service of executing payment transactions (including both
         domestic money transfers and cross‑border money transfers)
         between 2 or more related corporations, in any case where the
         payment transaction —

     (i) is not executed through a payment service provider; or

     (ii) is executed through a payment service provider that is one of
          those related corporations;

     (f) the service of transporting currency, including the collection,
         processing and delivery of the currency, where the provision of the
         service is carried on as a business;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                200

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

(g) the service of collecting and delivering currency, where no fee is
     collected for the service, and the service is provided as a not‑for‑profit
     or charitable activity;

(h) any service, including (but not limited to) any of the following
     services, provided by any technical service provider that supports the
     provision of any payment service, but does not at any time enter into
     possession of any money under that payment service:

          (i) the service of processing and storing data;

          (ii) any information technology security, trust or privacy protection
               service;

          (iii) any data and entity authentication service;

          (iv) any information technology service;

          (v) the service of providing a communication network;

          (vi) the service of providing and maintaining any terminal or device
               used for any payment service;

          (i) any payment service mentioned in Part 1 of this Schedule that is
              provided by any person licensed, approved, registered or regulated, or
              exempt from being licensed, approved, registered or regulated, under
              any of the following Acts, in any case where the payment service is
              solely incidental to or necessary solely for that person to carry on that
              person’s business in any regulated activity for which that person is so
              licensed, approved, registered, regulated or exempt from being
              licensed, approved, registered or regulated:

          (i) Financial Advisers Act 2001;

          (ii) Insurance Act 1966;

          (iii) Securities and Futures Act 2001;

          (iv) Trust Companies Act 2005;

          (j) any payment service mentioned in Part 1 of this Schedule that is
              provided by any person in respect only of any limited purpose
              e‑money;

(k) any digital payment token service that is provided, in respect of any
    central bank digital payment token, by any central bank or financial
    institution;

                                                                      [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
201  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

     (l) any digital payment token service that is provided in respect of any
         limited purpose digital payment token.

                                                                           [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

                                          PART 3

                                   INTERPRETATION

3. In this Schedule, unless the context otherwise requires —

    “account issuance service” means any of the following services:

               (a) the service of issuing a payment account to any person in
                    Singapore;

               (b) any service relating to any operation required for operating a
                    payment account, including —

                          (i) any service (other than a domestic money transfer
                              service or a cross‑border money transfer service) that
                              enables money to be placed in a payment account; or

                         (ii) any service (other than a domestic money transfer
                              service or a cross‑border money transfer service) that
                              enables money to be withdrawn from a payment
                              account;

    “associated company”, in relation to an issuer of electronically stored
        monetary value, means a company at least 20%, but not more than 50%, of
        the shares of which are held by the issuer, or by the issuer and its
        subsidiaries, if any;

    “central bank digital payment token” means any digital payment token that is
        issued by a central bank, or by any entity authorised by a central bank to
        issue a digital payment token on behalf of the central bank;

    “commercial agent” means any person that carries on a business of acting as
        an authorised agent for another person, for the purposes of negotiating or
        concluding the sale or purchase of goods or services on behalf of that other
        person;

    “cross‑border money transfer service” means any of the following services:

               (a) any service of accepting money in Singapore, whether as
                    principal or agent, for the purpose of transmitting, or arranging
                    for the transmission of, the money to any person outside
                    Singapore (other than any such service that the Authority may
                    prescribe);

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                 202

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          (b) any service of receiving any money from outside Singapore for,
               or arranging for the receipt of any money from outside
               Singapore by, any person in Singapore (other than any such
               service that the Authority may prescribe), whether as principal
               or as agent;

          (c) any service of arranging for the transmission of money from any
               country or territory to another country or territory, whether as
               principal or agent (other than any such service that the
               Authority may prescribe);

                                                                         [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

                                                                         [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

“dealing in”, in relation to any digital payment token, means the buying or
   selling of that digital payment token in exchange for any money or any
   other digital payment token (whether of the same or a different type), but
   does not include any of the following:

          (a) facilitating the exchange of digital payment tokens;

          (b) accepting any digital payment token as a means of payment for
               the provision of goods or services;

          (c) using any digital payment token as a means of payment for the
              provision of goods or services;

“digital payment token exchange” —

          (a) means a place, or a facility (whether electronic or otherwise),
               where —

          (i) offers or invitations to buy or sell any digital payment
              token in exchange for any money or any other digital
              payment token (whether of the same or a different
              type), are regularly made on a centralised basis;

          (ii) those offers or invitations are intended, or may
               reasonably be expected, to result (whether directly or
               indirectly) in the acceptance of those offers or in the
               making of offers to buy or sell digital payment tokens
               in exchange for money or other digital payment tokens
               (whether of the same or a different type), as the case
               may be; and

          (iii) the person making any such offer or invitation, and the
                person accepting that offer or making an offer in
                response to that invitation, are different persons; but

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
203  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

     (b) does not include a place or facility (whether electronic or
          otherwise) that is used exclusively by one person to do only
          either or both of the following things:

     (i) to make offers or invitations to buy or sell any digital
         payment token in exchange for any money, or any
         digital payment token (whether of the same or a
         different type);

     (ii) to accept any offer to buy or sell any digital payment
          token in exchange for any money, or any digital
          payment token (whether of the same or a different
          type);

     “digital payment token instrument” means any password, code, cipher,
        cryptogram, private cryptographic key or other instrument that enables a
        person —

     (a) to control access to one or more digital payment tokens; or

               (b) to execute a transaction involving one or more digital payment
                    tokens;

                                                                              [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

     “digital payment token service” means any of the following services:

     (a) any service of dealing in digital payment tokens (other than any
          such service that the Authority may prescribe);

     (b) any service of facilitating the exchange of digital payment
          tokens (other than any such service that the Authority may
          prescribe);

     (c) any service of accepting (whether as principal or agent) digital
          payment tokens from one digital payment token account
          (whether in Singapore or elsewhere), for the purposes of
          transmitting, or arranging for the transmission of, the digital
          payment tokens to another digital payment token account
          (whether in Singapore or elsewhere);

                                                                 [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

     (d) any service of arranging (whether as principal or agent) for the
          transmission of digital payment tokens from one digital
          payment token account (whether in Singapore or elsewhere)
          to another digital payment token account (whether in Singapore
          or elsewhere);

                                                                 [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                204

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          (e) any service of inducing or attempting to induce any person to
               enter into or to offer to enter into any agreement for or with a
               view to buying or selling any digital payment token in exchange
               for any money or any other digital payment token (whether of
               the same or a different type);

                                                                         [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

           (f) any service of safeguarding a digital payment token, where the
               service provider has control over the digital payment token;

                                                                         [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

          (g) any service of carrying out for a customer an instruction relating
               to a digital payment token, where the service provider has
               control over the digital payment token;

                                                                         [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

          (h) any service of safeguarding a digital payment token instrument,
               where the service provider has control over one or more digital
               payment tokens associated with the digital payment token
               instrument;

                                                                         [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

           (i) any service of carrying out for a customer an instruction relating
               to one or more digital payment tokens associated with a digital
               payment token instrument, where the service provider has
               control over the digital payment token instrument;

                                                                         [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

“direct debit” means the act of debiting a payer’s payment account pursuant
   to a payment transaction initiated by a payee with the consent of the payer,
   regardless whether the payment order is given by the payee to the payee’s
   payment service provider or to the payer’s payment service provider;

“domestic money transfer service” means the service of accepting money for
   the purpose of executing, or arranging for the execution of, any of the
   following payment transactions, each of which is between a payer in
   Singapore and a payee in Singapore (except in the case where both the
   payer and the payee are financial institutions):

          (a) a payment transaction executed from, by way of or through a
               payment account;

          (b) a direct debit (including a one‑off direct debit) through a
               payment account;

          (c) a credit transfer (including a standing order) through a payment
              account;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
205  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

               (d) accepting any money from any person for transfer to the
                    payment account of a different person;

                                                                              [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

     “e‑money issuance service” means the service of issuing e‑money to any
        person for the purpose of allowing a person to make payment transactions;

     “facilitating the exchange of”, in relation to any type of digital payment
        token, means establishing or operating a digital payment token exchange
        for that type of digital payment token, in a case where the person that
        establishes or operates that digital payment token exchange, for the
        purposes of an offer or invitation (made or to be made on that digital
        payment token exchange) to buy or sell that type of digital payment token
        in exchange for any money or any digital payment token (whether of that
        type or a different type), comes into possession of any money or any
        digital payment token, whether at the time that offer or invitation is made
        or otherwise;

     “facilitating the exchange of digital payment tokens” means establishing or
        operating a digital payment token exchange, in a case where the person
        that establishes or operates that digital payment token exchange, for the
        purposes of an offer or invitation (made or to be made on that digital
        payment token exchange) to buy or sell any digital payment token in
        exchange for any money or any digital payment token (whether of the
        same or a different type), comes into possession of any money or any
        digital payment token, whether at the time that offer or invitation is made
        or otherwise;

     “financial institution” means any person that —

     (a) is licensed, approved, registered or regulated, or is exempt from
          being licensed, approved, registered or regulated, by the
          Authority under any written law; or

     (b) is licensed, approved, registered or regulated, or is exempt from
          being licensed, approved, registered or regulated, under any law
          administered by an authority in a foreign country (the functions
          of which correspond to the functions of the Authority in
          Singapore) to carry on any financial activity in that country;

     “financial product” means any product or service that is provided by a
        financial institution;

     “franchise” means a written agreement or arrangement between 2 or more
        persons by which —

     (a) a party (called in this definition the franchisor) to the agreement
          or arrangement authorises or permits another party (called in

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                206

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          this definition the franchisee) to the agreement or arrangement,
          or a person associated with the franchisee, to engage in the
          business of offering, selling or distributing goods or services in
          Singapore under a plan or system controlled by the franchisor or
          a person associated with the franchisor;

          (b) the business carried on by the franchisee or person associated
               with the franchisee (as the case may be) is capable of being
               identified by the public as associated with a trade mark or
               service mark, logo, symbol or name identifying, commonly
               connected with or controlled by the franchisor or person
               associated with the franchisor, as the case may be;

          (c) the franchisor or person associated with the franchisor (as the
              case may be) exerts, or has authority to exert, a significant
              degree of control over the method or manner of operation of the
              business of the franchisee or person associated with the
              franchisee, as the case may be;

          (d) the franchisee or person associated with the franchisee (as the
               case may be) is required under the agreement or arrangement to
               make payment, or give some other form of consideration, to the
               franchisor or person associated with the franchisor, as the case
               may be; and

          (e) the franchisor or person associated with the franchisor (as the
              case may be) agrees to communicate to the franchisee or person
              associated with the franchisee (as the case may be) knowledge,
              experience, expertise, know‑how, trade secrets or other
              information, whether or not the knowledge, experience,
              expertise, know‑how or information is proprietary or
              confidential;

“in‑game asset” means any digital representation of value that —

          (a) is purchased or otherwise acquired by a person (called in this
               definition the game player);

          (b) is not denominated in any currency;

          (c) is issued as part of an online game; and

          (d) is used by the game player to pay or in exchange for virtual
               objects or services in the online game;

“limited network of providers of goods or services”, in relation to any
   electronically stored monetary value that is accepted by a member of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
207  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

     network as payment or part payment for goods or services, means any of
     the following groups of entities:

     (a) a group of entities consisting only of all parties to a franchise, of
          which the issuer of the electronically stored monetary value is a
          party;

     (b) a group of entities consisting only of the issuer of the
          electronically stored monetary value and all of its related
          corporations;

     (c) where any securities or securities-based derivatives contracts of
         the issuer of the electronically stored monetary value are listed
         on the Mainboard of Singapore Exchange Limited, a group of
         entities consisting only of that issuer and all of its associated
         companies;

     “limited purpose digital payment token” means any non‑monetary customer
        loyalty or reward point, any in‑game asset, or any similar digital
        representation of value that —

     (a) cannot be returned to its issuer, transferred or sold in exchange
          for money; and

     (b) may only be used —

     (i) in the case of a non‑monetary customer loyalty or
         reward point — for the payment or part payment of, or
         in exchange for, goods or services, or both, provided by
         its issuer or any merchant specified by its issuer; or

     (ii) in the case of an in‑game asset — for the payment of, or
          in exchange for, virtual objects or virtual services
          within an online game, or any similar thing within, that
          is part of, or in relation to, an online game;

     “limited purpose e‑money” means any of the following types of
        electronically stored monetary value:

     (a) any electronically stored monetary value that is, or is intended
          to be, used only in Singapore for any of the following purposes:

     (i) the payment or part payment of goods or services (or
         both) provided by the issuer of the electronically stored
         monetary value;

     (ii) the payment or part payment of goods or services (or
          both) provided by any member of a limited network of
          providers of goods or services, being a network that

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                208

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          has a commercial arrangement with the issuer of the
          electronically stored monetary value for every member
          of the network to accept the electronically stored
          monetary value as payment or part payment for goods
          or services (or both) provided by the member;

          (iii) the payment or part payment of goods or services (or
                both) provided by any person within any one or more
                physical premises owned, operated or managed by the
                issuer of the electronically stored monetary value, or
                any related corporation or associated company of that
                issuer, in a case where all of the following conditions
                are satisfied:

          (A) the user of the electronically stored monetary
               value is not contractually entitled to receive any
               refund of any unused portion of the
               electronically stored monetary value in any
               currency;

          (B) if the electronically stored monetary value
               exceeds $100 (or its equivalent in a foreign
               currency), any unused portion of the
               electronically stored monetary value cannot
               be refunded to the user of the electronically
               stored monetary value in any currency, unless
               the issuer identifies and verifies the identity of
               that user;

          (C) the electronically stored monetary value cannot
               be withdrawn by the user of the electronically
               stored monetary value, from any payment
               account maintained for that user, in exchange
               for any currency;

          (D) the amount of electronically stored monetary
               value contained in any payment account
               maintained for the electronically stored
               monetary value cannot exceed $1,000 (or its
               equivalent in a foreign currency);

          (b) any electronically stored monetary value that is, or is intended
               to be, used only in Singapore in a case where —

          (i) all of the electronically stored monetary value is issued
              by a public authority; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
209  Payment Services Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

     FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

     (ii) a public authority has undertaken to be fully liable for
          the value of all of the electronically stored monetary
          value issued by the issuer of the electronically stored
          monetary value, in the event of any default by the
          issuer in honouring a valid payment made using the
          electronically stored monetary value;

     (c) any electronically stored monetary value, that —

     (i) is denominated in any currency;

     (ii) is issued as part of a scheme, the dominant purpose of
          which is to promote the purchase of goods, or the use
          of services, provided by the issuer of the electronically
          stored monetary value or any merchant specified by
          that issuer;

     (iii) is issued to a user of the electronically stored monetary
           value upon the purchase of goods, or the use of
           services, provided by the issuer of the electronically
           stored monetary value or any merchant specified by
           that issuer;

     (iv) is used for the payment or part payment of goods or
          services (or both) provided by the issuer of the
          electronically stored monetary value or any merchant
          specified by that issuer;

     (v) is not part of a financial product;

     (vi) cannot be withdrawn by the user of the electronically
          stored monetary value, from any payment account
          maintained for that user, in exchange for currency; and

     (vii) if the electronically stored monetary value exceeds
           $100 (or its equivalent in a foreign currency), cannot
           be refunded to the user of the electronically stored
           monetary value in any currency, unless the issuer of the
           electronically stored monetary value identifies and
           verifies the identity of that user;

     “merchant acquisition service” means any service of accepting and
        processing a payment transaction for a merchant under a contract
        between the provider of the service and the merchant, which results in
        a transfer of money to the merchant pursuant to the payment transaction,
        regardless whether the provider of the service comes into possession of
        any money in respect of the payment transaction, in a case where —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Payment Services Act 2019                                210

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          (a) the merchant carries on business in Singapore, or is
               incorporated, formed or registered in Singapore; or

          (b) the contract between the provider of the service and the
               merchant is entered into in Singapore;

“money-changing service” means the service of buying or selling foreign
   currency notes;

“non-monetary customer loyalty or reward point” means any digital
   representation of value, by whatever name called, that satisfies all of
   the following conditions:

          (a) it is not denominated in any currency;

          (b) it is issued as part of a scheme, the dominant purpose of which is
               to promote the purchase of goods, or the use of services,
               provided by its issuer or any merchant specified by its issuer;

          (c) it is issued to a person upon the purchase of goods, or the use of
              services, provided by its issuer or any merchant specified by its
              issuer;

          (d) it is used for the payment or part payment of, or in exchange for,
               goods or services (or both) provided by its issuer or any
               merchant specified by its issuer;

          (e) it is not part of a financial product;

“related corporation” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967.

4. For the purposes of this Schedule —

(a) a person is deemed to provide a cross‑border money transfer service if
     that person offers —

          (i) to transmit money in Singapore on behalf of a person in
              Singapore to a person outside Singapore;

          (ii) to arrange in Singapore for money in Singapore to be
               transmitted from a person in Singapore to a person outside
               Singapore;

          (iii) to receive money in Singapore on behalf of a person in
                Singapore from a person outside Singapore; or

          (iv) to arrange in Singapore for money to be received in Singapore
               by a person in Singapore from a person outside Singapore;

                                                                      [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
211                Payment Services Act 2019                  2020 Ed.

                   FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

     (b) a person is deemed to provide a money‑changing service if the person
          offers to buy or sell foreign currency notes; and

                                                                           [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

     (c) a person has control over a digital payment token whether the person
          has control over the digital payment token solely or jointly with one or
          more other persons.

                                                                           [Act 1 of 2021 wef 04/04/2024]

                   SECOND SCHEDULE             Sections 4(2) and 107(1)

                   SPECIFIED PROVISIONS

1. Section 13(3)
2. Section 100(4)

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
     LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
PAYMENT SERVICES ACT 2019

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019

Date of First Reading     : 7 October 2019
                                (Bill No. 32/2019)

Date of Second and Third  : 5 November 2019
Readings

Date of commencement      : 2 January 2021

2. Act 1 of 2020 — Banking (Amendment) Act 2020

Date of First Reading     : 4 November 2019
                                (Bill No. 35/2019)

Date of Second and Third  : 6 January 2020
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 July 2021

3. 2020 Revised Edition — Payment Services Act 2019

Date of operation         : 31 December 2021

4. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021

Date of First Reading     : 26 July 2021
                                (Bill No. 18/2021)

Date of Second and Third  : 14 September 2021
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 April 2022

5. Act 2 of 2019 — Payment Services Act 2019

Date of First Reading     : 19 November 2018
                                (Bill No. 48/2018)

Date of Second and Third  : 14 January 2019
Readings

Date of commencement      : 28 January 2020 (Parts 1 to 8,
                                sections 109, 110, 112, 115 to 120,
                                Part 10, the First and Second
                                Schedules)
                                30 July 2020 (Section 114)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                          ii

                              31 May 2021 (Section 111)
                              30 June 2022 (Section 113)

6. Act 1 of 2021 — Payment Services (Amendment) Act 2021
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Date of First Reading     : 2 November 2020 (Bill No. 41/2020
                                published on 2 November 2020)

Second and Third Readings : 4 January 2021

Date of Commencement      : 4 April 2024

7. Act 18 of 2022 — Financial Services and Markets Act 2022

Date of First Reading     : 14 February 2022
                                (Bill No. 4/2022)

Date of Second and Third  : 5 April 2022
Readings

Date of commencement      : 28 April 2023 (Section 207(2), (4) and
                                (5))
                                31 July 2024 (Section 207(1) and (3))

8. Act 12 of 2024 — Financial Institutions (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act
                         2024

Date of First Reading     : 10 January 2024
                                (Bill No. 4/2024)

Date of Second and Third  : 7 March 2024
Readings

Date of commencement      : 24 January 2025

9. Act 5 of 2025 — Electronic Gazette and Legislation Act 2025

Bill                      : 47/2024

First Reading             : 11 November 2024

Second and Third Readings : 7 January 2025

Commencement              : 9 March 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
.                                 iii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
     COMPARATIVE TABLE
PAYMENT SERVICES ACT 2019

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                 Act 2 of 2019
1—(1) and (2)              1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
