THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
SINGAPORE RAILWAY TRANSFER ORDINANCE 1918

                                             2020 REVISED EDITION

                   This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                             Prepared and Published by
                                      THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                          UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                            THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                     2020 Ed.

         Singapore Railway Transfer
                Ordinance 1918

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
     1.
     2.  Short title
         Vesting of the Singapore Railway in the Chief Secretary,
     3.  Federation of Malaya
     4.  Provision of additional lands for railway purposes
         Resumption of lands vested under sections 2 and 3 not used for
     5.  railway purposes
     6.  Resumption of other lands not used for railway purposes
     7.  Construction of causeway or embankment over Johore Straits
     8.  Authority for necessary operations
     9.  No action to be brought for obstruction of the Straits
   10.   Compensation for damage
         Private Act for certain purposes

An Ordinance to vest in the Chief Secretary, Federation of Malaya,
  the Railway known as the Singapore Railway and to provide for the
  passage of railway traffic over the Johore Straits.

                                                            [25 October 1918]

  Whereas an agreement has been concluded between the
Government of the Colony and the Government of the Federated
Malay States for the transfer to the Government of the Federated
Malay States of the railway known as the Singapore Railway,
whereof the terminal stations are situated at Pasir Panjang and at
Woodlands respectively:

         1

                                                  31.12.2021
   Singapore Railway Transfer

2  Ordinance 1918              2020 Ed.

  And whereas the Government of the Federated Malay States
through the Crown Agents for the Colonies has by way of
consideration for such transfer placed to the credit of the
Government of the Colony securities valued at $1,864,571.43 and
paid to the credit of the Government of the Colony a sum equal to
$2,271,428.57, making in all a payment by the Government of the
Federated Malay States to the Government of the Colony of
$4,136,000 in respect of the transfer of the said railway:

  And whereas it is expedient and the Government of the Federated
Malay States is desirous that the said railway should be vested in the
Chief Secretary to Government, Federated Malay States, as
incorporated by the Chief Secretary to Government, Federated
Malay States Incorporation Ordinance, 1913.

  It is hereby enacted by the Governor of the Straits Settlements with
the advice and consent of the Legislative Council thereof as follows:

Short title

 1. This Ordinance may be cited as the Singapore Railway Transfer
Ordinance 1918.

Vesting of the Singapore Railway in the Chief Secretary,
Federation of Malaya

 2. The railway known as the Singapore Railway whereof the
terminal stations are situated at Pasir Panjang and at Woodlands,
respectively, together with —

       (a) all lands delineated and coloured pink on a plan deposited
            in the Colonial Secretary’s office dated 18 March 1913,
            and signed by R. H. Young, Chief Surveyor, and described
            thereon as “Singapore Railway Lands”;

       (b) all lines of rail, bridges, sidings, fencing, retaining walls,
            stations, offices, residences, quarters, coolie-lines,
            warehouses, stores, engine sheds, carriage sheds,
            workshops, plant, machinery, telegraph and telephone
            lines, wharves, landing-stages, and other buildings and
            works constructed or used for the purposes of or in
            connection with the said Singapore Railway;
          Singapore Railway Transfer

2020 Ed.  Ordinance 1918              3

          (c) all ships, wagon-ferry-boats and other boats and craft,
              engines, passenger coaches, wagons and other rolling stock
              which were on the 31 December 1912, the property of the
              Colony and used or maintained for the purposes of or in
              connection with the said Singapore Railway; and

(d) the cable across the Johore Straits which was laid for
     railway purposes exclusively,

are hereby vested, free from encumbrances, in the Chief Secretary,
Federation of Malaya, absolutely.

Provision of additional lands for railway purposes

 3.—(1) If and so often as the Government of the Federation of
Malaya require additional Crown land in the Colony of Singapore for
the improvement or widening of the said Singapore Railway or for the
due maintenance thereof or as sites for new sidings, stations, offices,
quarters, coolie-lines, warehouses or other works or for the
improvement or extension of existing sidings, stations, offices,
quarters, coolie-lines, warehouses or works or otherwise in
connection with the maintenance or improvement of the said
Singapore Railway and such requirement is approved either in
whole or in part by the Yang di-Pertuan Negara, such land shall be
surveyed and demarcated to the satisfaction of the Collector of Land
Revenue, Singapore.

 (2) The Registrar of Deeds shall, on receipt of an order in that
behalf under the hand of the Minister, make an entry in the books of
the registry that such land has vested in the Chief Secretary,
Federation of Malaya.

 (3) Upon the making of any such entry as in this section is
mentioned the land to which such entry relates shall vest free from
encumbrances in the Chief Secretary, Federation of Malaya,
absolutely.

 (4) No payment, other than for the cost of survey and demarcation,
shall be required to be made by or on behalf of the Government of the
Federation of Malaya to the Government of the Colony in respect of
any such land as is in this section referred to.

                                      31.12.2021
   Singapore Railway Transfer

4  Ordinance 1918              2020 Ed.

Resumption of lands vested under sections 2 and 3 not used for
railway purposes

 4.—(1) If any land —

   (a) which has become vested in the Chief Secretary,
        Federation of Malaya, pursuant to section 2; or

   (b) which has become vested in the Chief Secretary,
        Federation of Malaya, pursuant to section 3,

is not used and will not be required to be used or ceases to be used by
the Government of the Federation of Malaya for the purposes of the
said Singapore Railway, such land may, if the Yang di-Pertuan
Negara so directs, be resumed on 6 months’ notice under the hand of
the Minister being given to the Chief Secretary, Federation of
Malaya, of the desire of the Yang di-Pertuan Negara to resume such
land.

 (2) On the expiration of the term of such notice the Yang di-Pertuan
Negara may authorise the Collector of Land Revenue to enter and
take possession of such land on behalf of the Crown.

   (3) When any land mentioned in subsection (1)(a) is resumed —

   (a) such sum shall be paid from the Consolidated Fund to the
        Government of the Federation of Malaya as was paid by
        the Government of the Federated Malay States to the
        Government of the Colony of the Straits Settlements for
        the purchase of the land so resumed together with such sum
        as represents the value, at the date of resumption, of all
        buildings erected by or on behalf of the Government of the
        Federated Malay States or the Federation of Malaya upon
        such land;

   (b) nothing shall be paid to the Government of the Federation
        of Malaya for such land, if the Government of the
        Federated Malay States, in pursuance of the agreement
        for the transfer of the railway, paid nothing to the
        Government of the Colony of the Straits Settlements for
        such land: Provided, however, that there shall be paid to the
        Government of the Federation of Malaya such sum as
        represents the value, at the date of resumption, of all
          Singapore Railway Transfer

2020 Ed.  Ordinance 1918              5

          buildings erected by or on behalf of such Government or
          the Government of the Federated Malay States upon such
          land.

 (4) When any land mentioned in subsection (1)(b) is resumed,
nothing shall be paid to the Government of the Federation of Malaya
for such land: Provided, however, that there shall be paid to such
Government such sum as represents the value, at the date of
resumption, of all buildings erected by or on behalf of such
Government or the Government of the Federated Malay States
upon such land.

 (5) If the Government of the Colony and the Government of the
Federation of Malaya do not agree as to the value of any such
buildings as aforesaid, the valuation thereof shall be referred to the
decision of a person, to be selected by the Yang di-Pertuan Negara,
who shall be a Member or Associate Member of the Institution of
Civil Engineers, or a Fellow or Associate of the Royal Institution of
British Architects.

 (6) The decision of such person on a matter referred to him under
this section shall be final and binding on both parties.

Resumption of other lands not used for railway purposes

 5.—(1) If any land, not being land vested in the Chief Secretary,
Federation of Malaya, pursuant to section 2 or 3, which has been
acquired by the Government of the Federation of Malaya for the
purposes of the said Singapore Railway, is not used and will not be
required to be used or ceases to be used for the purposes of the said
railway, such land together with any buildings thereon may be
purchased by the Yang di-Pertuan Negara on 6 months’ notice under
the hand of the Minister being given to the Chief Secretary,
Federation of Malaya, of the desire of the Yang di-Pertuan Negara
to purchase such land and buildings.

 (2) On the expiration of the term of such notice the Minister may
authorise the Collector of Land Revenue to enter and take possession
of such land and buildings on behalf of the Crown.

                                      31.12.2021
   Singapore Railway Transfer

6  Ordinance 1918              2020 Ed.

 (3) If the Government of the Colony and the Government of the
Federation of Malaya do not agree as to the price of such land
together with the buildings thereon, the price thereof shall be
ascertained by a person to be selected by the Yang di-Pertuan Negara,
who shall be a Member or Associate Member of the Institution of
Civil Engineers, or a Fellow or Associate of the Royal Institution of
British Architects.

 (4) The decision of such person on a matter referred to him under
this section shall be final and binding on both parties.

Construction of causeway or embankment over Johore Straits

 6. The Government of the Federated Malay States may, with the
approval of the Legislative Council —

       (a) construct or authorise to be constructed over or in and
            across the Straits, which divide the territory of the Colony
            from the territory of the State of Johore, a causeway or
            embankment, in accordance with a plan to be approved by
            the Legislative Council, suitable for the passage of railway
            traffic;

       (b) construct or authorise to be constructed on such causeway
            or embankment, as the case may be, a railway by way of
            extension of the said Singapore Railway and such
            roadways and footways as to the Government of the
            Colony seem expedient; and

       (c) carry on or authorise to be carried on railway and other
            traffic upon and over the said causeway or embankment.

Authority for necessary operations

 7. For the purposes of preliminary examination of the bed of the
said Straits with a view to determining the nature of the work to be
constructed in pursuance of section 6 and the site and the mode of
construction thereof and for the purpose of any operations incidental
to the construction thereof or to the due protection, maintenance and
use thereof during construction or after completion, the Government
of the Federated Malay States or any person authorised by it in that
behalf may take borings and construct piers and abutments and carry
          Singapore Railway Transfer

2020 Ed.  Ordinance 1918              7

on and construct all other necessary operations and works,
notwithstanding that obstruction is thereby caused to the passage of
ships, boats or other craft through or upon the said Straits.

No action to be brought for obstruction of the Straits

 8. Except as in section 9 provided, no person shall claim, and no
action or proceeding shall be brought against the Government of the
Federation of Malaya to recover, any compensation in respect of any
lands or of any interest therein which have been injuriously affected
by anything done in pursuance of this Ordinance or in respect of any
obstruction to the flow of water or to the passage of ships or boats or
other craft through or upon the said Straits or any alteration in the
tides in the said Straits where such obstruction or alteration is due to
anything done in pursuance of this Ordinance.

Compensation for damage

 9. There shall be a right of compensation in respect of any lands or
of any interest therein which has been injuriously affected by
anything done in pursuance of this Ordinance, if the damage, in
respect of which the compensation is claimed, is —

       (a) damage caused by reason of what has been authorised by
            this Ordinance;

       (b) damage arising from the execution of the works authorised
            by this Ordinance and not by their subsequent use; and

       (c) damage arising from that which would, if done without the
            authority of this Ordinance, have given rise to a cause of
            action; and

where the compensation is claimed in respect of any interference with
a public or private right, is —

                                      31.12.2021
   Singapore Railway Transfer

8  Ordinance 1918              2020 Ed.

   (d) damage arising from a physical interference with a right,
        public or private, which the owner or occupier of property
        may by law make use of in connection with such property,
        and which gives an additional market value to such
        property apart from the uses to which any particular
        owner or occupier might put it.

Private Act for certain purposes

 10. For the purposes of the Registration of Deeds Act 1988 this
Ordinance shall be deemed to be a private Act.
                    LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
SINGAPORE RAILWAY TRANSFER ORDINANCE 1918

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Ordinance 22 of 1918 — Singapore Railway Transfer Ordinance, 1918

Bill                  : G.N. No. 745/1918

First Reading         : 17 June 1918

Second Reading        : 1 July 1918

Notice of Amendments  : 2 September 1918

Third Reading         : 14 October 1918

Commencement          : 23 October 1918 (assent)
                            25 October 1918 (publication)

2. 1920 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 203 (Singapore Railway
                                    Transfer)

Operation             : 28 November 1921

3. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 236 (Singapore Railway
                                    Transfer)

Operation             : 1 August 1926

4. 1936 Revised Edition — Singapore Railway Transfer Ordinance
                                    (Chapter 264)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

5. 1955 Revised Edition — Singapore Railway Transfer Ordinance
                                    (Chapter 320)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

6. G.N. No. S 223/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of Laws)
                                   Order, 1959

Commencement          : 3 June 1959

7. Ordinance 62 of 1959 — State Advocate-General (Transfer of Powers)
                                    Ordinance, 1959

   (Amendments made by section 5 read with the Schedule to the above
   Ordinance)

Bill                  : 22/1959

First Reading         : 13 August 1959

                                           31.12.2021
                      ii

Second and Third Readings : 2 September 1959

Commencement          : 11 September 1959 (section 5 read
                            with the Schedule)

8. Ordinance 72 of 1959 — Transfer of Powers (No. 2) Ordinance, 1959
   (Amendments made by section 2 read with the First Schedule to the above
   Ordinance)

Bill                  : 31/1959

First Reading         : 22 September 1959

Second Reading        : 11 November 1959

Notice of Amendments  : 11 November 1959

Third Reading         : 11 November 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959 (section 2 read
                            with the First Schedule)

9. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 177/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                           Laws) (No. 3) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

10. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 178/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 4) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

11. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 179/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 5) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

12. 1985 Revised Edition — Singapore Railway Transfer Ordinance
                                     (Chapter 380)

Operation             : 30 March 1987
                             iii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
