THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
  ARBITRATION (INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENT
                      DISPUTES) ACT 1968

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
         2020 Ed.

Arbitration (International Investment
          Disputes) Act 1968

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

     1.  Short title
     2.  Interpretation
     3.  Binding on Government
     4.  Registration of Convention awards
     5.  Effect of registration
     6.  Power to make rules
     7.  Government contribution to expenses under Convention
     8.  Exclusion of Arbitration Act 2001
     9.  Certain provisions of Convention to have force of law
   10.   Power of Minister to amend Schedule
         The Schedule — Convention on the Settlement of Investment

                               Disputes between States and Nationals of
                               other States

An Act to implement the International Convention on the Settlement
  of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of other
  States.
                                                         [10 September 1968]

Short title
 1. This Act is the Arbitration (International Investment Disputes)

Act 1968.

Interpretation
 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “award” includes any decision interpreting, reversing or
         annulling an award, being a decision pursuant to the
         Convention, and any decision as to costs which under the
         Convention is to form part of the award;

                                                           1

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Arbitration (International

2020 Ed.  Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            2

“Centre” means the International Centre for Settlement of
   Investment Disputes established by the Convention;

“Convention” means the Convention on the Settlement of
   Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of other
   States which was opened for signature in Washington on
   18 March 1965 and is set out in the Schedule.

 (2) An award shall be deemed to have been rendered pursuant to the
Convention on the date on which certified copies of the award were
pursuant to the Convention despatched to the parties.

Binding on Government

 3. Sections 4 and 5 shall bind the Government (but not so as to
make an award enforceable against the Government in a manner in
which a judgment would not be enforceable against the Government).

Registration of Convention awards

 4.—(1) Any person seeking recognition or enforcement of an
award rendered pursuant to the Convention shall be entitled to have
the award registered in the General Division of the High Court subject
to proof of any matters that may be prescribed and to the other
provisions of this Act.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) In addition to the pecuniary obligations imposed by the award,
the award shall be registered for the reasonable costs of and incidental
to registration.

 (3) If at the date of the application for registration the pecuniary
obligations imposed by the award have been partly satisfied, the
award shall be registered only in respect of the balance, and
accordingly if those obligations have been wholly satisfied, the
award shall not be registered.

Effect of registration

 5. Subject to the provisions of this Act, an award registered under
section 4 shall, as respects the pecuniary obligations which it
imposes, be of the same force and effect for the purposes of
enforcement as if it had been a judgment of the General Division of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
   Arbitration (International

3  Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            2020 Ed.

the High Court given when the award was rendered pursuant to the
Convention and entered on the date of registration under this Act,
and, so far as relates to such pecuniary obligations —

   (a) proceedings may be taken on the award;

   (b) the sum for which the award is registered shall carry
        interest; and

   (c) the General Division of the High Court shall have the same
       control over the enforcement of the award,

as if the award had been such a judgment of the General Division of
the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Power to make rules

 6. The Supreme Court Judges, or any 3 of them, of whom the Chief
Justice shall be one, may make rules —

       (a) to prescribe the procedure for applying for registration of
            an award under this Act, and to require the applicant to
            give prior notice of his intention to register to other parties;

       (b) to prescribe matters to be proved on the application and the
            manner of proof, and in particular to require the applicant
            to furnish a copy of the award certified pursuant to the
            Convention;

       (c) to provide for the service of notice of registration of the
            award by the applicant on other parties; and

       (d) to provide for the stay of enforcement (whether
            provisionally or otherwise) of any award registered
            under this Act in accordance with the provisions of the
            Convention.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Government contribution to expenses under Convention

 7. Any sums required to meet any obligations of the Government
arising out of Article 17 of the Convention (which obliges the

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Arbitration (International

2020 Ed.  Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            4

Contracting States to meet any deficit of the Centre) shall be charged
on and paid out of the Consolidated Fund.

Exclusion of Arbitration Act 2001

 8. The provisions of the Arbitration Act 2001 shall not apply to
proceedings pursuant to the Convention.

Certain provisions of Convention to have force of law

 9.—(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any written
law, the provisions of Articles 18, 19, 20, 21(a) (with Article 22 as it
applies to Article 21(a)), 23(1) and 24 shall have the force of law.

 (2) Nothing in Article 24(1) of the Convention shall be construed
as —

       (a) entitling the Centre to import into Singapore goods free of
            any customs duty without restriction on their subsequent
            sale therein;

       (b) conferring on the Centre any exemption from taxes or
            duties which form part of the price of goods sold; or

       (c) conferring on the Centre any exemption from taxes or
            duties which are in fact no more than charges for services
            rendered.

 (3) For the purposes of Articles 20 and 21(a) of the Convention as
given the force of law by this section, a statement to the effect that the
Centre has waived an immunity in the circumstances specified in the
statement, being a statement certified by the Secretary-General of the
Centre, or by the person acting as Secretary-General, shall be
conclusive evidence of such waiver.

Power of Minister to amend Schedule

 10. The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, amend
the Schedule in conformity with any amendments to the provisions of
the Convention set out therein which may hereafter be duly made and
adopted.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                         Arbitration (International

5  Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            2020 Ed.

                         THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                            Sections 2(1) and 10

 CONVENTION ON THE SETTLEMENT OF INVESTMENT DISPUTES
        BETWEEN STATES AND NATIONALS OF OTHER STATES
                                       PREAMBLE

The Contracting States

 Considering the need for international cooperation for economic development,
and the role of private international investment therein;

 Bearing in mind the possibility that from time to time disputes may arise in
connection with such investment between Contracting States and nationals of
other Contracting States;

 Recognizing that while such disputes would usually be subject to national legal
processes, international methods of settlement may be appropriate in certain
cases;

 Attaching particular importance to the availability of facilities for international
conciliation or arbitration to which Contracting States and nationals of other
Contracting States may submit such disputes if they so desire;

 Desiring to establish such facilities under the auspices of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development;

 Recognizing that mutual consent by the parties to submit such disputes to
conciliation or to arbitration through such facilities constitutes a binding
agreement which requires in particular that due consideration be given to any
recommendation of conciliators, and that any arbitral award be complied with; and

 Declaring that no Contracting State shall by the mere fact of its ratification,
acceptance or approval of this Convention and without its consent be deemed to be
under any obligation to submit any particular dispute to conciliation or arbitration,

Have agreed as follows:

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Arbitration (International

2020 Ed.  Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            6

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

          CHAPTER I

          INTERNATIONAL CENTRE FOR SETTLEMENT
                      OF INVESTMENT DISPUTES

                                         SECTION 1

                             Establishment and Organization

Article 1

 (1) There is hereby established the International Centre for Settlement of
Investment Disputes (hereinafter called the Centre).

 (2) The purpose of the Centre shall be to provide facilities for conciliation and
arbitration of investment disputes between Contracting States and nationals of
other Contracting States in accordance with the provisions of this Convention.

Article 2

 The seat of the Centre shall be at the principal office of the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the Bank). The seat may be
moved to another place by decision of the Administrative Council adopted by a
majority of two-thirds of its members.

Article 3

 The Centre shall have an Administrative Council and a Secretariat and shall
maintain a Panel of Conciliators and a Panel of Arbitrators.

                                         SECTION 2

                                The Administrative Council

Article 4

 (1) The Administrative Council shall be composed of one representative of each
Contracting State. An alternate may act as representative in case of his principal’s
absence from a meeting or inability to act.

 (2) In the absence of a contrary designation, each governor and alternate
governor of the Bank appointed by a Contracting State shall be ex officio its
representative and its alternate respectively.

Article 5

 The President of the Bank shall be ex officio Chairman of the Administrative
Council (hereinafter called the Chairman) but shall have no vote. During his
absence or inability to act and during any vacancy in the office of President of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
           Arbitration (International

7          Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            2020 Ed.

           THE SCHEDULE — continued

Bank, the person for the time being acting as President shall act as Chairman of the
Administrative Council.

Article 6

 (1) Without prejudice to the powers and functions vested in it by other
provisions of this Convention, the Administrative Council shall

   (a) adopt the administrative and financial regulations of the Centre;

   (b) adopt the rules of procedure for the institution of conciliation and
        arbitration proceedings;

   (c) adopt the rules of procedure for conciliation and arbitration
       proceedings (hereinafter called the Conciliation Rules and the
       Arbitration Rules);

   (d) approve arrangements with the Bank for the use of the Bank’s
        administrative facilities and services;

   (e) determine the conditions of service of the Secretary-General and of
       any Deputy Secretary‑General;

   (f) adopt the annual budget of revenues and expenditures of the Centre;

   (g) approve the annual report on the operation of the Centre.

 The decisions referred to in sub‑paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (f) above shall be
adopted by a majority of two-thirds of the members of the Administrative Council.

 (2) The Administrative Council may appoint such committees as it considers
necessary.

 (3) The Administrative Council shall also exercise such other powers and
perform such other functions as it shall determine to be necessary for the
implementation of the provisions of this Convention.

Article 7

 (1) The Administrative Council shall hold an annual meeting and such other
meetings as may be determined by the Council, or convened by the Chairman, or
convened by the Secretary-General at the request of not less than 5 members of the
Council.

 (2) Each member of the Administrative Council shall have one vote and, except
as otherwise herein provided, all matters before the Council shall be decided by a
majority of the votes cast.

 (3) A quorum for any meeting of the Administrative Council shall be a majority
of its members.

           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
           Arbitration (International

2020 Ed.   Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            8

           THE SCHEDULE — continued

 (4) The Administrative Council may establish, by a majority of two-thirds of its
members, a procedure whereby the Chairman may seek a vote of the Council
without convening a meeting of the Council. The vote shall be considered valid
only if the majority of the members of the Council cast their votes within the time
limit fixed by the said procedure.

Article 8

 Members of the Administrative Council and the Chairman shall serve without
remuneration from the Centre.

                                         SECTION 3

                                       The Secretariat

Article 9

 The Secretariat shall consist of a Secretary-General, one or more Deputy
Secretaries‑General and staff.

Article 10

 (1) The Secretary-General and any Deputy Secretary‑General shall be elected
by the Administrative Council by a majority of two‑thirds of its members upon the
nomination of the Chairman for a term of service not exceeding 6 years and shall
be eligible for re‑election. After consulting the members of the Administrative
Council, the Chairman shall propose one or more candidates for each such office.

 (2) The offices of Secretary-General and Deputy Secretary‑General shall be
incompatible with the exercise of any political function. Neither the
Secretary‑General nor any Deputy Secretary‑General may hold any other
employment or engage in any other occupation except with the approval of the
Administrative Council.

 (3) During the Secretary‑General’s absence or inability to act, and during any
vacancy of the office of Secretary‑General, the Deputy Secretary‑General shall act
as Secretary‑General. If there shall be more than one Deputy Secretary‑General,
the Administrative Council shall determine in advance the order in which they
shall act as Secretary‑General.

Article 11

 The Secretary-General shall be the legal representative and the principal officer
of the Centre and shall be responsible for its administration, including the
appointment of staff, in accordance with the provisions of this Convention and the
rules adopted by the Administrative Council. He shall perform the function of
registrar and shall have the power to authenticate arbitral awards rendered
pursuant to this Convention, and to certify copies thereof.

           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
            Arbitration (International

9           Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            2020 Ed.

            THE SCHEDULE — continued

            SECTION 4

            The Panels

Article 12

 The Panel of Conciliators and the Panel of Arbitrators shall each consist of
qualified persons, designated as hereinafter provided, who are willing to serve
thereon.

Article 13

 (1) Each Contracting State may designate to each Panel 4 persons who may but
need not be its nationals.

 (2) The Chairman may designate 10 persons to each Panel. The persons so
designated to a Panel shall each have a different nationality.

Article 14

 (1) Persons designated to serve on the Panels shall be persons of high moral
character and recognised competence in the fields of law, commerce, industry or
finance, who may be relied upon to exercise independent judgment. Competence
in the field of law shall be of particular importance in the case of persons on the
Panel of Arbitrators.

 (2) The Chairman, in designating persons to serve on the Panels, shall in
addition pay due regard to the importance of assuring representation on the Panels
of the principal legal systems of the world and of the main forms of economic
activity.

Article 15

(1) Panel members shall serve for renewable periods of 6 years.

 (2) In case of death or resignation of a member of a Panel, the authority which
designated the member shall have the right to designate another person to serve for
the remainder of that member’s term.

 (3) Panel members shall continue in office until their successors have been
designated.

Article 16

(1) A person may serve on both Panels.

 (2) If a person shall have been designated to serve on the same Panel by more
than one Contracting State, or by one or more Contracting States and the
Chairman, he shall be deemed to have been designated by the authority which first
designated him or, if one such authority is the State of which he is a national, by
that State.

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Arbitration (International

2020 Ed.  Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            10

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

 (3) All designations shall be notified to the Secretary-General and shall take
effect from the date on which the notification is received.

                                         SECTION 5

                                    Financing the Centre

Article 17

 If the expenditure of the Centre cannot be met out of charges for the use of its
facilities, or out of other receipts, the excess shall be borne by Contracting States
which are members of the Bank in proportion to their respective subscriptions to
the capital stock of the Bank, and by Contracting States which are not members of
the Bank in accordance with rules adopted by the Administrative Council.

                                         SECTION 6

                            Status, Immunities and Privileges

Article 18

 The Centre shall have full international legal personality. The legal capacity of
the Centre shall include the capacity

        (a) to contract;

        (b) to acquire and dispose of movable and immovable property;

        (c) to institute legal proceedings.

Article 19

 To enable the Centre to fulfil its functions, it shall enjoy in the territories of each
Contracting State the immunities and privileges set forth in this Section.

Article 20

 The Centre, its property and assets shall enjoy immunity from all legal process,
except when the Centre waives this immunity.

Article 21

 The Chairman, the members of the Administrative Council, persons acting as
conciliators or arbitrators or members of a Committee appointed pursuant to
paragraph (3) of Article 52, and the officers and employees of the Secretariat

        (a) shall enjoy immunity from legal process with respect to acts performed
             by them in the exercise of their functions, except when the Centre
             waives this immunity;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
            Arbitration (International

11          Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            2020 Ed.

            THE SCHEDULE — continued

    (b) not being local nationals, shall enjoy the same immunities from
         immigration restrictions, alien registration requirements and national
         service obligations, the same facilities as regards exchange restrictions
         and the same treatment in respect of travelling facilities as are accorded
         by Contracting States to the representatives, officials and employees of
         comparable rank of other Contracting States.

Article 22

 The provisions of Article 21 shall apply to persons appearing in proceedings
under this Convention as parties, agents, counsel, advocates, witnesses or experts;
provided, however, that sub‑paragraph (b) thereof shall apply only in connection
with their travel to and from, and their stay at, the place where the proceedings are
held.

Article 23

(1) The archives of the Centre shall be inviolable, wherever they may be.

 (2) With regard to its official communications, the Centre shall be accorded by
each Contracting State treatment not less favourable than that accorded to other
international organizations.

Article 24

 (1) The Centre, its assets, property and income, and its operations and
transactions authorised by this Convention shall be exempt from all taxation
and customs duties. The Centre shall also be exempt from liability for the
collection or payment of any taxes or customs duties.

 (2) Except in the case of local nationals, no tax shall be levied on or in respect of
expense allowances paid by the Centre to the Chairman or members of the
Administrative Council, or on or in respect of salaries, expense allowances or
other emoluments paid by the Centre to officials or employees of the Secretariat.

 (3) No tax shall be levied on or in respect of fees or expense allowances received
by persons acting as conciliators, or arbitrators, or members of a Committee
appointed pursuant to paragraph (3) of Article 52, in proceedings under this
Convention, if the sole jurisdictional basis for such tax is the location of the Centre
or the place where such proceedings are conducted or the place where such fees or
allowances are paid.

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
            Arbitration (International

2020 Ed.    Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            12

            THE SCHEDULE — continued

            CHAPTER II

            JURISDICTION OF THE CENTRE

Article 25

 (1) The jurisdiction of the Centre shall extend to any legal dispute arising
directly out of an investment, between a Contracting State (or any constituent
subdivision or agency of a Contracting State designated to the Centre by that
State) and a national of another Contracting State, which the parties to the dispute
consent in writing to submit to the Centre. When the parties have given their
consent, no party may withdraw its consent unilaterally.

(2) “National of another Contracting State” means:

(a) any natural person who had the nationality of a Contracting State other
     than the State party to the dispute on the date on which the parties
     consented to submit such dispute to conciliation or arbitration as well
     as on the date on which the request was registered pursuant to
     paragraph (3) of Article 28 or paragraph (3) of Article 36, but does not
     include any person who on either date also had the nationality of the
     Contracting State party to the dispute; and

(b) any juridical person which had the nationality of a Contracting State
     other than the State party to the dispute on the date on which the parties
     consented to submit such dispute to conciliation or arbitration and any
     juridical person which had the nationality of the Contracting State
     party to the dispute on that date and which, because of foreign control,
     the parties have agreed should be treated as a national of another
     Contracting State for the purposes of this Convention.

 (3) Consent by a constituent subdivision or agency of a Contracting State shall
require the approval of that State unless that State notifies the Centre that no such
approval is required.

 (4) Any Contracting State may, at the time of ratification, acceptance or
approval of this Convention or at any time thereafter, notify the Centre of the class
or classes of disputes which it would or would not consider submitting to the
jurisdiction of the Centre. The Secretary‑General shall forthwith transmit such
notification to all Contracting States. Such notification shall not constitute the
consent required by paragraph (1).

Article 26

 Consent of the parties to arbitration under this Convention shall, unless otherwise
stated, be deemed consent to such arbitration to the exclusion of any other remedy.
A Contracting State may require the exhaustion of local administrative or judicial
remedies as a condition of its consent to arbitration under this Convention.

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
            Arbitration (International

13          Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            2020 Ed.

            THE SCHEDULE — continued

Article 27

 (1) No Contracting State shall give diplomatic protection, or bring an
international claim, in respect of a dispute which one of its nationals and
another Contracting State shall have consented to submit or shall have submitted
to arbitration under this Convention, unless such other Contracting State shall
have failed to abide by and comply with the award rendered in such dispute.

 (2) Diplomatic protection, for the purposes of paragraph (1), shall not include
informal diplomatic exchanges for the sole purpose of facilitating a settlement of
the dispute.

             CHAPTER III
            CONCILIATION

                                         SECTION 1

                                  Request for Conciliation

Article 28

 (1) Any Contracting State or any national of a Contracting State wishing to
institute conciliation proceedings shall address a request to that effect in writing to
the Secretary‑General who shall send a copy of the request to the other party.

 (2) The request shall contain information concerning the issues in dispute, the
identity of the parties and their consent to conciliation in accordance with the rules
of procedure for the institution of conciliation and arbitration proceedings.

 (3) The Secretary-General shall register the request unless he finds, on the basis
of the information contained in the request, that the dispute is manifestly outside
the jurisdiction of the Centre. He shall forthwith notify the parties of registration
or refusal to register.

                                         SECTION 2

                     Constitution of the Conciliation Commission

Article 29

 (1) The Conciliation Commission (hereinafter called the Commission) shall be
constituted as soon as possible after registration of a request pursuant to
Article 28.

 (2) (a) The Commission shall consist of a sole conciliator or any uneven number
of conciliators appointed as the parties shall agree.

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
            Arbitration (International

2020 Ed.    Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            14

            THE SCHEDULE — continued

 (b) Where the parties do not agree upon the number of conciliators and the
method of their appointment, the Commission shall consist of 3 conciliators, one
conciliator appointed by each party and the third, who shall be the president of the
Commission, appointed by agreement of the parties.

Article 30

 If the Commission shall not have been constituted within 90 days after notice of
registration of the request has been dispatched by the Secretary-General in
accordance with paragraph (3) of Article 28, or such other period as the parties
may agree, the Chairman shall, at the request of either party and after consulting
both parties as far as possible, appoint the conciliator or conciliators not yet
appointed.

Article 31

 (1) Conciliators may be appointed from outside the Panel of Conciliators, except
in the case of appointments by the Chairman pursuant to Article 30.

 (2) Conciliators appointed from outside the Panel of Conciliators shall possess
the qualities stated in paragraph (1) of Article 14.

                                         SECTION 3

                                 Conciliation Proceedings

Article 32

 (1) The Commission shall be the judge of its own competence.

 (2) Any objection by a party to the dispute that that dispute is not within the
jurisdiction of the Centre, or for other reasons is not within the competence of the
Commission, shall be considered by the Commission which shall determine
whether to deal with it as a preliminary question or to join it to the merits of the
dispute.

Article 33

 Any conciliation proceeding shall be conducted in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and, except as the parties otherwise agree, in
accordance with the Conciliation Rules in effect on the date on which the
parties consented to conciliation. If any question of procedure arises which is not
covered by this Section or the Conciliation Rules or any rules agreed by the
parties, the Commission shall decide the question.

Article 34

 (1) It shall be the duty of the Commission to clarify the issues in dispute between
the parties and to endeavour to bring about agreement between them upon

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
            Arbitration (International

15          Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            2020 Ed.

            THE SCHEDULE — continued

mutually acceptable terms. To that end, the Commission may at any stage of the
proceedings and from time to time recommend terms of settlement to the parties.
The parties shall cooperate in good faith with the Commission in order to enable
the Commission to carry out its functions, and shall give their most serious
consideration to its recommendations.

 (2) If the parties reach agreement, the Commission shall draw up a report noting
the issues in dispute and recording that the parties have reached agreement. If, at
any stage of the proceedings, it appears to the Commission that there is no
likelihood of agreement between the parties, it shall close the proceedings and
shall draw up a report noting the submission of the dispute and recording the
failure of the parties to reach agreement. If one party fails to appear or participate
in the proceedings, the Commission shall close the proceedings and shall draw up
a report noting that party’s failure to appear or participate.

Article 35

 Except as the parties to the dispute shall otherwise agree, neither party to a
conciliation proceeding shall be entitled in any other proceeding, whether before
arbitrators or in a court of law or otherwise, to invoke or rely on any views
expressed or statements or admissions or offers of settlement made by the other
party in the conciliation proceedings, or the report or any recommendations made
by the Commission.

            CHAPTER IV
            ARBITRATION

                                         SECTION 1

                                  Request for Arbitration

Article 36

 (1) Any Contracting State or any national of a Contracting State wishing to
institute arbitration proceedings shall address a request to that effect in writing to
the Secretary‑General who shall send a copy of the request to the other party.

 (2) The request shall contain information concerning the issues in dispute, the
identity of the parties and their consent to arbitration in accordance with the rules
of procedure for the institution of conciliation and arbitration proceedings.

 (3) The Secretary-General shall register the request unless he finds, on the basis
of the information contained in the request, that the dispute is manifestly outside
the jurisdiction of the Centre. He shall forthwith notify the parties of registration
or refusal to register.

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
            Arbitration (International

2020 Ed.    Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            16

            THE SCHEDULE — continued

            SECTION 2

            Constitution of the Tribunal

Article 37

 (1) The Arbitral Tribunal (hereinafter called the Tribunal) shall be constituted as
soon as possible after registration of a request pursuant to Article 36.

 (2) (a) The Tribunal shall consist of a sole arbitrator or any uneven number of
arbitrators appointed as the parties shall agree.

 (b) Where the parties do not agree upon the number of arbitrators and the
method of their appointment, the Tribunal shall consist of 3 arbitrators, one
arbitrator appointed by each party and the third, who shall be the president of the
Tribunal, appointed by agreement of the parties.

Article 38

 If the Tribunal shall not have been constituted within 90 days after notice of
registration of the request has been despatched by the Secretary-General in
accordance with paragraph (3) of Article 36, or such other period as the parties
may agree, the Chairman shall, at the request of either party and after consulting
both parties as far as possible, appoint the arbitrator or arbitrators not yet
appointed. Arbitrators appointed by the Chairman pursuant to this Article shall not
be nationals of the Contracting State party to the dispute or of the Contracting
State whose national is a party to the dispute.

Article 39

 The majority of the arbitrators shall be nationals of States other than the
Contracting State party to the dispute and the Contracting State whose national is a
party to the dispute; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this
Article shall not apply if the sole arbitrator or each individual member of the
Tribunal has been appointed by agreement of the parties.

Article 40

 (1) Arbitrators may be appointed from outside the Panel of Arbitrators, except in
the case of appointments by the Chairman pursuant to Article 38.

 (2) Arbitrators appointed from outside the Panel of Arbitrators shall possess the
qualities stated in paragraph (1) of Article 14.

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
            Arbitration (International

17          Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            2020 Ed.

            THE SCHEDULE — continued

            SECTION 3

            Powers and Functions of the Tribunal

Article 41

(1) The Tribunal shall be the judge of its own competence.

 (2) Any objection by a party to the dispute that that dispute is not within the
jurisdiction of the Centre, or for other reasons is not within the competence of the
Tribunal, shall be considered by the Tribunal which shall determine whether to
deal with it as a preliminary question or to join it to the merits of the dispute.

Article 42

 (1) The Tribunal shall decide a dispute in accordance with such rules of law as
may be agreed by the parties. In the absence of such agreement, the Tribunal shall
apply the law of the Contracting State party to the dispute (including its rules on
the conflict of laws) and such rules of international law as may be applicable.

 (2) The Tribunal may not bring in a finding of non liquet on the ground of
silence or obscurity of the law.

 (3) The provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not prejudice the power of the
Tribunal to decide a dispute ex aequo et bono if the parties so agree.

Article 43

 Except as the parties otherwise agree, the Tribunal may, if it deems it necessary at
any stage of the proceedings —

    (a) call upon the parties to produce documents or other evidence, and

    (b) visit the scene connected with the dispute, and conduct such inquiries
         there as it may deem appropriate.

Article 44

 Any arbitration proceeding shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions
of this Section and, except as the parties otherwise agree, in accordance with the
Arbitration Rules in effect on the date on which the parties consented to
arbitration. If any question of procedure arises which is not covered by this
Section or the Arbitration Rules or any rules agreed by the parties, the Tribunal
shall decide the question.

Article 45

 (1) Failure of a party to appear or to present his case shall not be deemed an
admission of the other party’s assertions.

 (2) If a party fails to appear or to present his case at any stage of the proceedings
the other party may request the Tribunal to deal with the questions submitted to it

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
            Arbitration (International

2020 Ed.    Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            18

            THE SCHEDULE — continued

and to render an award. Before rendering an award, the Tribunal shall notify, and
grant a period of grace to, the party failing to appear or to present its case, unless it
is satisfied that the party does not intend to do so.

Article 46

 Except as the parties otherwise agree, the Tribunal shall, if requested by a party,
determine any incidental or additional claims or counter‑claims arising directly
out of the subject‑matter of the dispute provided that they are within the scope of
the consent of the parties and are otherwise within the jurisdiction of the Centre.

Article 47

 Except as the parties otherwise agree, the Tribunal may, if it considers that the
circumstances so require, recommend any provisional measures which should be
taken to preserve the respective rights of either party.

                                         SECTION 4

                                          The Award

Article 48

 (1) The Tribunal shall decide questions by a majority of the votes of all its
members.

 (2) The award of the Tribunal shall be in writing and shall be signed by the
members of the Tribunal who voted for it.

 (3) The award shall deal with every question submitted to the Tribunal, and shall
state the reasons upon which it is based.

 (4) Any member of the Tribunal may attach his individual opinion to the award,
whether he dissents from the majority or not, or a statement of his dissent.

 (5) The Centre shall not publish the award without the consent of the parties.

Article 49

 (1) The Secretary-General shall promptly dispatch certified copies of the award
to the parties. The award shall be deemed to have been rendered on the date on
which the certified copies were dispatched.

 (2) The Tribunal upon the request of a party made within 45 days after the date
on which the award was rendered may after notice to the other party decide any
question which it had omitted to decide in the award, and shall rectify any clerical,
arithmetical or similar error in the award. Its decision shall become part of the
award and shall be notified to the parties in the same manner as the award. The
periods of time provided for under paragraph (2) of Article 51 and paragraph (2) of
Article 52 shall run from the date on which the decision was rendered.

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
            Arbitration (International

19          Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            2020 Ed.

            THE SCHEDULE — continued

            SECTION 5

            Interpretation, Revision and Annulment of the Award

Article 50

 (1) If any dispute shall arise between the parties as to the meaning or scope of an
award, either party may request interpretation of the award by an application in
writing addressed to the Secretary‑General.

 (2) The request shall, if possible, be submitted to the Tribunal which rendered
the award. If this shall not be possible, a new Tribunal shall be constituted in
accordance with Section 2 of this Chapter. The Tribunal may, if it considers that
the circumstances so require, stay enforcement of the award pending its decision.

Article 51

 (1) Either party may request revision of the award by an application in writing
addressed to the Secretary‑General on the ground of discovery of some fact of
such a nature as decisively to affect the award, provided that when the award was
rendered that fact was unknown to the Tribunal and to the applicant and that the
applicant’s ignorance of that fact was not due to negligence.

 (2) The application shall be made within 90 days after the discovery of such fact
and in any event within 3 years after the date on which the award was rendered.

 (3) The request shall, if possible, be submitted to the Tribunal which rendered
the award. If this shall not be possible, a new Tribunal shall be constituted in
accordance with Section 2 of this Chapter.

 (4) The Tribunal may, if it considers that the circumstances so require, stay
enforcement of the award pending its decision. If the applicant requests a stay of
enforcement of the award in his application, enforcement shall be stayed
provisionally until the Tribunal rules on such request.

Article 52

 (1) Either party may request annulment of the award by an application in writing
addressed to the Secretary‑General on one or more of the following grounds:

    (a) that the Tribunal was not properly constituted;

    (b) that the Tribunal has manifestly exceeded its powers;

    (c) that there was corruption on the part of a member of the Tribunal;

    (d) that there has been a serious departure from a fundamental rule of
         procedure; or

    (e) that the award has failed to state the reasons on which it is based.

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Arbitration (International

2020 Ed.  Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            20

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

 (2) The application shall be made within 120 days after the date on which the
award was rendered except that when annulment is requested on the ground of
corruption such application shall be made within 120 days after discovery of the
corruption and in any event within 3 years after the date on which the award was
rendered.

 (3) On receipt of the request the Chairman shall forthwith appoint from the
Panel of Arbitrators an ad hoc Committee of 3 persons. None of the members of
the Committee shall have been a member of the Tribunal which rendered the
award, shall be of the same nationality as any such member, shall be a national of
the State party to the dispute or of the State whose national is a party to the dispute,
shall have been designated to the Panel of Arbitrators by either of those States, or
shall have acted as a conciliator in the same dispute. The Committee shall have the
authority to annul the award or any part thereof on any of the grounds set forth in
paragraph (1).

 (4) The provisions of Articles 41-45, 48, 49, 53 and 54, and of Chapters VI and
VII shall apply mutatis mutandis to proceedings before the Committee.

 (5) The Committee may, if it considers that the circumstances so require, stay
enforcement of the award pending its decision. If the applicant requests a stay of
enforcement of the award in his application, enforcement shall be stayed
provisionally until the Committee rules on such request.

 (6) If the award is annulled the dispute shall, at the request of either party, be
submitted to a new Tribunal constituted in accordance with Section 2 of this
Chapter.

                                         SECTION 6

                      Recognition and Enforcement of the Award

Article 53

 (1) The award shall be binding on the parties and shall not be subject to any
appeal or to any other remedy except those provided for in this Convention. Each
party shall abide by and comply with the terms of the award except to the extent
that enforcement shall have been stayed pursuant to the relevant provisions of this
Convention.

 (2) For the purposes of this Section, “award” shall include any decision
interpreting, revising or annulling such award pursuant to Articles 50, 51 or 52.

Article 54

 (1) Each Contracting State shall recognise an award rendered pursuant to this
Convention as binding and enforce the pecuniary obligations imposed by that

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
            Arbitration (International

21          Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            2020 Ed.

            THE SCHEDULE — continued

award within its territories as if it were a final judgment of a court in that State. A
Contracting State with a federal constitution may enforce such an award in or
through its federal courts and may provide that such courts shall treat the award as
if it were a final judgment of the courts of a constituent state.

 (2) A party seeking recognition or enforcement in the territories of a Contracting
State shall furnish to a competent court or other authority which such State shall
have designated for this purpose a copy of the award certified by the
Secretary‑General. Each Contracting State shall notify the Secretary‑General of
the designation of the competent court or other authority for this purpose and of
any subsequent change in such designation.

 (3) Execution of the award shall be governed by the laws concerning the
execution of judgments in force in the State in whose territories such execution is
sought.

Article 55

 Nothing in Article 54 shall be construed as derogating from the law in force in
any Contracting State relating to immunity of that State or of any foreign State
from execution.

                                        CHAPTER V

      REPLACEMENT AND DISQUALIFICATION OF CONCILIATORS
                                   AND ARBITRATORS

Article 56

 (1) After a Commission or a Tribunal has been constituted and proceedings have
begun, its composition shall remain unchanged; provided, however, that if a
conciliator or an arbitrator should die, become incapacitated, or resign, the
resulting vacancy shall be filled in accordance with the provisions of Section 2 of
Chapter III or Section 2 of Chapter IV.

 (2) A member of a Commission or Tribunal shall continue to serve in that
capacity notwithstanding that he shall have ceased to be a member of the Panel.

 (3) If a conciliator or arbitrator appointed by a party shall have resigned without
the consent of the Commission or Tribunal of which he was a member, the
Chairman shall appoint a person from the appropriate Panel to fill the resulting
vacancy.

Article 57

 A party may propose to a Commission or Tribunal the disqualification of any of
its members on account of any fact indicating a manifest lack of the qualities
required by paragraph (1) of Article 14. A party to arbitration proceedings may, in

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
            Arbitration (International

2020 Ed.    Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            22

            THE SCHEDULE — continued

addition, propose the disqualification of an arbitrator on the ground that he was
ineligible for appointment to the Tribunal under Section 2 of Chapter IV.

Article 58

 The decision on any proposal to disqualify a conciliator or arbitrator shall be
taken by the other members of the Commission or Tribunal as the case may be,
provided that where those members are equally divided, or in the case of a
proposal to disqualify a sole conciliator or arbitrator, or a majority of the
conciliators or arbitrators, the Chairman shall take that decision. If it is decided
that the proposal is well‑founded the conciliator or arbitrator to whom the decision
relates shall be replaced in accordance with the provisions of Section 2 of
Chapter III or Section 2 of Chapter IV.

                                       CHAPTER VI

                                COST OF PROCEEDINGS

Article 59

 The charges payable by the parties for the use of the facilities of the Centre shall
be determined by the Secretary‑General in accordance with the regulations
adopted by the Administrative Council.

Article 60

 (1) Each Commission and each Tribunal shall determine the fees and expenses
of its members within limits established from time to time by the Administrative
Council and after consultation with the Secretary‑General.

 (2) Nothing in paragraph (1) of this Article shall preclude the parties from
agreeing in advance with the Commission or Tribunal concerned upon the fees,
and expenses of its members.

Article 61

 (1) In the case of conciliation proceedings the fees and expenses of members of
the Commission as well as the charges for the use of the facilities of the Centre,
shall be borne equally by the parties. Each party shall bear any other expenses it
incurs in connection with the proceedings.

 (2) In the case of arbitration proceedings the Tribunal shall, except as the parties
otherwise agree, assess the expenses incurred by the parties in connection with the
proceedings, and shall decide how and by whom those expenses, the fees and
expenses of the members of the Tribunal and the charges for the use of the
facilities of the Centre shall be paid. Such decision shall form part of the award.

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
            Arbitration (International

23          Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            2020 Ed.

            THE SCHEDULE — continued

            CHAPTER VII

            PLACE OF PROCEEDINGS

Article 62

 Conciliation and arbitration proceedings shall be held at the seat of the Centre
except as hereinafter provided.

Article 63

Conciliation and arbitration proceedings may be held, if the parties so agree —

    (a) at the seat of the Permanent Court of Arbitration or of any other
         appropriate institution, whether private or public, with which the
         Centre may make arrangements for that purpose; or

    (b) at any other place approved by the Commission or Tribunal after
         consultation with the Secretary‑General.

                                      CHAPTER VIII

                 DISPUTES BETWEEN CONTRACTING STATES

Article 64

 Any dispute arising between Contracting States concerning the interpretation or
application of this Convention which is not settled by negotiation shall be referred
to the International Court of Justice by the application of any party to such dispute,
unless the States concerned agree to another method of settlement.

                                       CHAPTER IX

                                       AMENDMENT

Article 65

 Any Contracting State may propose amendment of this Convention. The text of a
proposed amendment shall be communicated to the Secretary‑General not less
than 90 days prior to the meeting of the Administrative Council at which such
amendment is to be considered and shall forthwith be transmitted by him to all the
members of the Administrative Council.

Article 66

 (1) If the Administrative Council shall so decide by a majority of two-thirds of
its members, the proposed amendment shall be circulated to all Contracting States
for ratification, acceptance or approval. Each amendment shall enter into force
30 days after despatch by the depositary of this Convention of a notification to

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Arbitration (International

2020 Ed.  Investment Disputes) Act 1968                            24

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

Contracting States that all Contracting States have ratified, accepted or approved
the amendment.

 (2) No amendment shall affect the rights and obligations under this Convention
of any Contracting State or of any of its constituent subdivisions or agencies, or of
any national of such State arising out of consent to the jurisdiction of the Centre
given before the date of entry into force of the amendment.

                                        CHAPTER X

                                   FINAL PROVISIONS

Article 67

 This Convention shall be open for signature on behalf of States members of the
Bank. It shall also be open for signature on behalf of any other State which is a
party to the Statute of the International Court of Justice and which the
Administrative Council, by a vote of two‑thirds of its members, shall have
invited to sign the Convention.

Article 68

 (1) This Convention shall be subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by
the signatory States in accordance with their respective constitutional procedures.

 (2) This Convention shall enter into force 30 days after the date of deposit of the
twentieth instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval. It shall enter into
force for each State which subsequently deposits its instrument of ratification,
acceptance or approval 30 days after the date of such deposit.

Article 69

 Each Contracting State shall take such legislative or other measures as may be
necessary for making the provisions of this Convention effective in its territories.

Article 70

 This Convention shall apply to all territories for whose international relations a
Contracting State is responsible, except those which are excluded by such State by
written notice to the depositary of this Convention either at the time of ratification,
acceptance or approval or subsequently.

Article 71

 Any Contracting State may denounce this Convention by written notice to the
depositary of this Convention. The denunciation shall take effect 6 months after
receipt of such notice.

Article 72

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
            Arbitration (International

25          Investment Disputes) Act 1968                                2020 Ed.

            THE SCHEDULE — continued

 Notice by a Contracting State pursuant to Article 70 or 71 shall not affect the
rights or obligations under this Convention of that State or of any of its constituent
subdivisions or agencies or of any national of that State arising out of consent to
the jurisdiction of the Centre given by one of them before such notice was received
by the depositary.

Article 73

 Instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval of this Convention and of
amendments thereto shall be deposited with the Bank which shall act as the
depositary of this Convention. The depositary shall transmit certified copies of
this Convention to States members of the Bank and to any other State invited to
sign the Convention.

Article 74

 The depositary shall register this Convention with the Secretariat of the United
Nations in accordance with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations and
the Regulations thereunder adopted by the General Assembly.

Article 75

The depositary shall notify all signatory States of the following:

    (a) signatures in accordance with Article 67;

    (b) deposits of instruments of ratification, acceptance and approval in
         accordance with Article 73;

    (c) the date on which this Convention enters into force in accordance with
        Article 68;

    (d) exclusions from territorial application pursuant to Article 70;

    (e) the date on which any amendment of this Convention enters into force,
        in accordance with Article 66; and

    (f) denunciations in accordance with Article 71.

 DONE at Washington in the English, French and Spanish languages, all 3 texts
being equally authentic, in a single copy which shall remain deposited in the
archives of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which
has indicated by its signature below its agreement to fulfil the functions with
which it is charged under this Convention.

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                        LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

ARBITRATION (INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENT DISPUTES)
                                  ACT 1968

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 18 of 1968 — Arbitration (International Investment Disputes) Act,
                           1968

Bill            : 30/1968

First Reading   : 11 July 1968

Second and Third Readings : 31 July 1968

Commencement    : 10 September 1968

2. 1970 Revised Edition — Arbitration (International Investment Disputes)
                                   Act (Chapter 17)

Operation       : 1 March 1971

3. 1985 Revised Edition — Arbitration (International Investment Disputes)
                                   Act (Chapter 11)

Operation       : 30 March 1987

4. Act 34 of 1992 — Bills of Exchange (Amendment) Act 1992
   (Amendments made by section 7 of the above Act)

Bill            : 35/1992

First Reading   : 14 September 1992

Second and Third Readings : 16 November 1992

Commencement    : 18 December 1992 (section 7)

5. 2012 Revised Edition — Arbitration (International Investment Disputes)
                                   Act (Chapter 11)

Operation       : 31 March 2012

6. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 7 of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill            : 32/2019

First Reading   : 7 October 2019

Second Reading  : 5 November 2019

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                      ii

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 7 of the Schedule)

7. 2020 Revised Edition — Arbitration (International Investment Disputes)
                                   Act 1968

Operation             : 31 December 2021

8. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
   (Amendments made by)

Bill                  : 18/2021

First Reading         : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement          : 1 April 2022

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                         COMPARATIVE TABLE

ARBITRATION (INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENT DISPUTES)
                                  ACT 1968

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

        2020 Ed.                    2012 Ed.
                  4—(2) [Deleted by Act 34 of 1992]
—
4—(2)                (3)
                     (4)
   (3)

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
