Veterans’ Entitlements Act 1986
No. 27, 1986
Compilation No. 199
Compilation date:	1 July 2026
Includes amendments:	Act No. 17, 2025 and Act No. 31, 2026
This compilation is in 4 volumes
Volume 1:
Parts I to IIIAB
sections 1 to 45UY
Volume 2:
Parts IIIB to VA
sections 46 to 93ZG
Volume 3:
Parts VI to XII
sections 94 to 216
Volume 4:
Schedules
Endnotes
Each volume has its own contents
About this compilation
This compilation
This is a compilation of the Veterans’ Entitlements Act 1986 that shows the text of the law as amended and in force on 1 July 2026 (the compilation date).
The notes at the end of this compilation (the endnotes) include information about amending laws and the amendment history of provisions of the compiled law.
Uncommenced amendments
The effect of uncommenced amendments is not shown in the text of the compiled law. The details of amendments made up to, but not commenced at, the compilation date are underlined in the endnotes. Any uncommenced amendments affecting the law are accessible on the Register (www.legislation.gov.au).
Application, saving and transitional provisions
If the operation of a provision or amendment of the compiled law is affected by an application, saving or transitional provision that is not included in this compilation, details are included in the endnotes.
Editorial changes
For more information about any editorial changes made in this compilation, see the endnotes.
Presentational changes
The Legislation Act 2003 provides for First Parliamentary Counsel to make presentational changes to a compilation. Presentational changes are applied to give a more consistent look and feel to legislation published on the Register, and enable the user to more easily navigate those documents.
Modifications
If the compiled law is modified by another law, the compiled law operates as modified but the modification does not amend the text of the law. Accordingly, this compilation does not show the text of the compiled law as modified. Any modifications affecting the law are accessible on the Register.
Self-repealing provisions
If a provision of the compiled law has been repealed in accordance with a provision of the law, details are included in the endnotes.
Contents
An Act to provide for the payment of pensions and other benefits to, and to provide medical and other treatment for, veterans and certain other persons, and for other purposes
Part I—Preliminary
1 Short title
This Act may be cited as the Veterans’ Entitlements Act 1986.
2 Commencement
This Act shall come into operation on a date to be fixed by Proclamation.
3 Repeal
(1)	The Acts specified in Parts I, II, III, IV and V of Schedule 1 are repealed.
(2)	The Acts specified in column 1 of Part VI of Schedule 1 are amended as set out in columns 2 and 3 of that Schedule.
4 Extension of Act to external Territories
This Act extends to the external Territories.
4A Application of the Criminal Code
Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code applies to all offences against this Act.
Note:	Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of criminal responsibility.
4B Secretary may arrange for use of computer programs to make decisions
(1)	The Secretary may arrange for the use, under the Secretary’s control, of computer programs for any purposes for which the Commission may, or must, under this Act or a legislative instrument made for the purposes of this Act:
(a)	make a decision; or
(b)	exercise any power or comply with any obligation; or
(c)	do anything else related to making a decision or exercising a power or complying with an obligation.
(1A)	Subsection (1) does not apply to the following:
(a)	a decision that the death of a veteran was not war-caused;
(b)	a decision that an injury suffered by a veteran is not a war-caused injury;
(c)	a decision that a disease contracted by a veteran is not a war-caused disease;
(d)	a decision that the death of a member of the Forces (within the meaning of Part IV), or a member of a Peacekeeping Force (within the meaning of that Part), was not defence-caused;
(e)	a decision that an injury suffered by a member of the Forces (within the meaning of Part IV), or a member of a Peacekeeping Force (within the meaning of that Part), is not a defence-caused injury;
(f)	a decision that a disease contracted by a member of the Forces (within the meaning of Part IV), or a member of a Peacekeeping Force (within the meaning of that Part), is not a defence-caused disease.
(2)	For the purposes of this Act or the legislative instrument, the Commission is taken to have:
(a)	made a decision; or
(b)	exercised a power or complied with an obligation; or
(c)	done something else related to the making of a decision or the exercise of a power or the compliance with an obligation;
that was made, exercised, complied with or done by the operation of a computer program under an arrangement made under subsection (1).
Substituted decisions
(3)	The Commission may, under a provision of this Act or of the legislative instrument, make a decision in substitution for a decision the Commission is taken to have made under paragraph (2)(a) if the Commission is satisfied that the decision made by the operation of the computer program is incorrect.
Note:	For review of a decision made in substitution, see Parts IX and X.
(4)	Subsection (3) does not limit any other provision of this Act that provide for the review or reconsideration of a decision.
5 Definitions—simplified outline
Sections 5B to 11B contain definitions of terms that are used in this Act.
Subsection 5Q(1) contains an entry for each expression that is defined for the purposes of this Act. That subsection is like a Dictionary.
The entry is either an actual definition of the expression or a signpost definition that identifies the provision that defines the expression.
Many other sections in this Part contain the actual definitions relating to a particular topic. For example, sections 6 to 6F deal with operational service and section 5H contains income test definitions.
5B War and operational area related definitions
(1)	In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
allotted for duty in an operational area has the meaning given by subsection (2).
operational area means an area described in column 1 of Schedule 2 during the period specified in column 2 of Schedule 2 opposite to the description of the area in column 1.
period of hostilities means:
(a)	World War 1 from its commencement on 4 August 1914 to 11 November 1918 (both included); or
(b)	World War 2 from its commencement on 3 September 1939 to 29 October 1945 (both included); or
(c)	the period of hostilities in respect of Korea from 27 June 1950 to 19 April 1956 (both included); or
(d)	the period of hostilities in respect of Malaya from 29 June 1950 to 31 August 1957 (both included); or
(e)	the period of hostilities in respect of war-like operations in operational areas from 31 July 1962 to 11 January 1973 (both included).
war to which this Act applies means World War 1 or World War 2.
World War 1 means:
(a)	the war that commenced on 4 August 1914; and
(b)	any other war in which the Crown became engaged after 4 August 1914 and before 11 November 1918.
World War 2 means:
(a)	the war that commenced on 3 September 1939; and
(b)	any other war in which the Crown became engaged after 3 September 1939 and before 3 September 1945.
Allotted for duty
(2)	A reference in this Act to a person, or a unit of the Defence Force, that was allotted for duty in an operational area is a reference:
(a)	in the case of duty that was carried out in an operational area described in item 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 of Schedule 2 (in column 1)—to a person, or unit of the Defence Force, that is allotted for duty in the area (whether retrospectively or otherwise) by written instrument issued by the Defence Force for use by the Commission in determining a person’s eligibility for entitlements under this Act; or
(b)	in the case of duty that was carried out in an operational area described in item 3A, 3B, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 or 15 of Schedule 2 (in column 1)—to a person, or unit of the Defence Force, that is allotted for duty in the area (whether retrospectively or otherwise) by written instrument signed by the Vice Chief of the Defence Force for use by the Commission in determining a person’s eligibility for entitlements under this Act; or
(c)	to a person, or unit of the Defence Force, that is, by written instrument signed by the Defence Minister, taken to have been allotted for duty in an operational area described in item 4 or 8 in Schedule 2 (in column 1).
End of World War 1 and 2
(3)	For the purposes of this Act:
(a)	World War 1 is taken to have ended on 1 September 1921; and
(b)	World War 2 is taken to have ended on 28 April 1952.
Note 1:	1 September 1921 is the date fixed by Proclamation under the Termination of the Present War (Definition) Act 1919.
Note 2:	28 April 1952 is the date on which the Treaty of Peace with Japan came into force.
5C Eligibility related definitions
(1)	In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
allied country means any country (not being Australia or a Commonwealth country):
(a)	that was, at the relevant time, at war with the enemy; or
(b)	the forces of which were, at the relevant time, engaged in an operational area against forces against which the forces of the Commonwealth were engaged in that area;
and includes:
(c)	a state, province or other territory that is one of 2 or more territories that together form, or formed at the relevant time, a discrete part of such a country; and
(d)	a place that is, or was at the relevant time, a territory, dependency or colony (however described) of such a country.
allied mariner means a person who:
(a)	was during the period of World War 2 from its commencement to and including 29 October 1945:
(i)	a master, officer or seaman employed under agreement, or an apprentice employed under indenture, in sea-going service on a ship that was engaged in trading; or
(ii)	a master, officer, seaman or apprentice employed in a lighthouse tender or pilot ship; or
(iii)	employed as a pilot; or
(iv)	a master, officer, seaman or apprentice employed in sea-going service on a ship (being a hospital ship, troop transport, supply ship, tug, cable ship, salvage ship, dredge, fishing vessel or fisheries investigation vessel) that was operated by, or on behalf of, a foreign country; and
(b)	was at any time during the course of that employment during the period referred to in paragraph (a) on a ship that was:
(i)	operating from a port in Australia or from a port in a Commonwealth country or an allied country; or
(ii)	engaged in trading with Australia or with a Commonwealth country or an allied country; or
(iii)	engaged in providing assistance or support to the Defence Force, or to the forces, or any part of the forces, of a Commonwealth country or an allied country; or
(iv)	engaged in providing assistance or support to Australia or to a Commonwealth country or an allied country;
but does not include:
(c)	an Australian mariner; or
(d)	a person who has, at any time, been employed by a foreign country that was, at that time, at war with Australia; or
(e)	a person who has, at any time, been employed:
(i)	on a ship that operated to, or was operating from, a port in a country that was, at that time, at war with Australia; or
(ii)	on a ship that was engaged in trading with a country that was, at that time, at war with Australia; or
(iii)	on a ship that was engaged in providing assistance or support to the enemy or to a country that was, at that time, at war with Australia.
allied veteran means a person:
(a)	who has been appointed or enlisted as a member of the defence force established by an allied country; and
(b)	who has rendered continuous full-time service as such a member during a period of hostilities;
but does not include a person who has served at any time:
(c)	in the forces of a country that was, at that time, at war with Australia, or in forces engaged in supporting or assisting the forces of such a country; or
(d)	in forces that were, at that time, engaged in war-like operations against the Naval, Military or Air Forces of Australia.
Note:	See also subsection 5R(2).
Australian mariner means a person who was, during the period of World War 2 from its commencement to and including 29 October 1945:
(a)	a master, officer or seaman employed under agreement, or an apprentice employed under indenture, in sea-going service on a ship registered in Australia that was engaged in trading between a port in a State or Territory and any other port; or
(b)	a master, officer or seaman employed under agreement, or an apprentice employed under indenture, in sea-going service on a ship registered outside Australia who was, or whose dependants were, resident in Australia for at least 12 months immediately before he or she entered into the agreement or indenture; or
(c)	a master, officer, seaman or apprentice employed on a lighthouse tender, or pilot ship of the Commonwealth or of a State; or
(d)	a pilot employed or licensed by Australia or a State or by an authority constituted by or under a law of the Commonwealth or of a State; or
(e)	a master, officer, seaman or apprentice employed in sea-going service on a ship owned in Australia and operating from an Australian port, being a hospital ship, troop transport, supply ship, tug, cable ship, salvage ship, dredge, fishing vessel or fisheries investigation vessel; or
(f)	a member or employee of the Commonwealth Salvage Board engaged in sea-going service under the direction of that Board; or
(g)	a master, officer, seaman or apprentice employed in sea-going service on a ship registered in New Zealand who the Commission is satisfied was engaged in Australia and is not entitled to compensation under a law of a Commonwealth country providing for the payment of pensions and other payments to seamen who suffered death or disablement as a result of World War 2.
Commonwealth country means a country (other than Australia) that is, or was at the relevant time, a part of the Dominions of the Crown, and includes:
(a)	a state, province or other territory that is one of 2 or more territories that together form, or formed at the relevant time, a discrete part of such a country; and
(b)	a place that is, or was at the relevant time, a territory, dependency or colony (however described) of a part of such a country.
Commonwealth veteran means a person who rendered continuous full-time service as a member of:
(a)	the naval, military or air forces; or
(b)	the nursing or auxiliary services of the naval, military or air forces; or
(c)	the women’s branch of the naval, military or air forces;
of a Commonwealth country during a period of hostilities.
continuous full-time service means:
(a)	in relation to a member of the Defence Force:
(i)	service in the Naval Forces of the Commonwealth of the kind known as continuous full-time naval service; or
(ii)	service in the Military Forces of the Commonwealth of the kind known as continuous full-time military service; or
(iii)	service in the Air Force of the Commonwealth of the kind known as continuous full-time air force service; or
(b)	in relation to a member of the naval, military or air forces of a Commonwealth country or an allied country—service in those forces of a kind similar to a kind of service referred to in subparagraph (a)(i), (ii) or (iii).
Note:	See also subsection 5R(1).
Defence Force has the same meaning as in the Defence Act 1903.
defence force established by a Commonwealth country means:
(a)	the naval, military or air forces of the country; or
(b)	the nursing and auxiliary services of the naval, military or air forces of the country; or
(c)	the women’s branch of the naval, military or air forces of the country.
defence force established by an allied country means:
(a)	the regular naval, military or air forces; and
(b)	the nursing or auxiliary services of the regular naval, military or air forces; and
(c)	the women’s branch of the regular naval, military or air forces;
raised by an allied country and operated by the country with regular military-like lines of command, that is to say, raised and operated in such a manner that the members of those forces and services:
(d)	were formally appointed to, or enlisted in, those forces or services; and
(e)	were required to wear uniforms or insignia distinguishing them as members of those forces or services; and
(f)	were required to carry arms openly; and
(g)	were subject to the rules and conventions of warfare.
Note 1:	For extended meaning of this term in relation to a government-in-exile, see subsection (3).
Note 2:	For an extended meaning of this term in relation to an allied veteran see subsection 5R(2).
eligible civilian means a person:
(a)	who was killed, or detained by the enemy, during World War 2; and
(b)	who was, at the time the person was killed or first detained:
(i)	a British subject; and
(ii)	a resident, but not an indigenous inhabitant, of the Territory of Papua or the Territory of New Guinea; and
(c)	who was not, at that time:
(i)	rendering service as a member of the Defence Force; or
(ii)	employed by the Commonwealth on a special mission outside Australia.
enemy means:
(a)	in relation to World War 1 or World War 2—the naval, military or air forces, or any part of the naval, military or air forces, of a State at war with the Crown during that war; and
(b)	in relation to service in, or a period of hostilities in respect of, an operational area—the naval, military or air forces against which the Naval, Military or Air Forces of the Commonwealth were engaged in that operational area; and
(c)	persons assisting any of those forces.
fishing vessel means a ship employed in connection with the occupation of sea fishing for profit.
former refugee means a person who was a refugee but does not include a person who ceased to be a refugee because his or her entry permit or visa (as the case may be) was cancelled.
government-in-exile, in relation to an allied country, includes a person, or group of persons, claiming to represent, or administer, the country or a part of the country or the people of the country.
member of a unit of the Defence Force means:
(a)	a member of the Defence Force; or
(b)	another person who is:
(i)	a member of the unit; or
(ii)	attached to the unit; or
(iii)	appointed for continuous full-time service with the unit.
Note:	See also subsection 5R(1).
member of the Defence Force includes a person appointed for continuous full-time service with a unit of the Defence Force.
Note:	See also subsection (2).
member of the Interim Forces means a person who:
(a)	enlisted or re-engaged in, or was appointed or re-appointed to, the Defence Force for continuous full-time service for a term of not more than 2 years; or
(b)	was appointed for continuous full-time service with a unit of the Defence Force for a term of not more than 2 years;
on or after 1 July 1947 and before 1 July 1949.
non-warlike service means service in the Defence Force of a kind determined in writing by the Defence Minister to be non-warlike service.
operational service has the meaning given by sections 6 to 6F.
qualifying service has the meaning given in section 7A.
refugee has the meaning given by subsection (4).
special mission means a mission that, in the opinion of the Commission, was of special assistance to the Commonwealth in the prosecution of a war to which this Act applies.
unit of the Defence Force means a body, contingent or detachment of the Defence Force.
veteran means:
(a)	a person (including a deceased person):
(i)	who is, because of section 7, taken to have rendered eligible war service; or
(ii)	in respect of whom a pension is, or pensions are, payable under subsection 13(6); and
(b)	in Parts III and VIIC also includes a person who is:
(i)	a Commonwealth veteran; or
(ii)	an allied veteran; or
(iv)	an allied mariner.
Note:	Commonwealth veteran, allied veteran and allied mariner are defined in this subsection.
warlike service means service in the Defence Force of a kind determined in writing by the Defence Minister to be warlike service.
Army Medical Corps Nursing Service
(2)	For the purposes of this Act, a member of the Army Medical Corps Nursing Service who:
(a)	rendered service during World War 1, either within or outside Australia; and
(b)	rendered the service as such a member in accordance with an acceptance or appointment by the Director-General of Medical Services for service outside Australia;
is taken to have been serving as a member of the Defence Force while rendering that service.
Defence force of government-in-exile
(3)	In relation to any period during which there was a government-in-exile in relation to an allied country, defence force established by an allied country includes:
(a)	the regular naval, military or air forces; and
(b)	the nursing or auxiliary services of the regular naval, military or air forces; and
(c)	the women’s branch of the regular naval, military or air forces;
raised by that government-in-exile and operated by it with regular military-like lines of command, that is to say, raised and operated in such a manner that the members of those forces and services:
(d)	were formally appointed to, or enlisted in, those forces or services; and
(e)	were required to wear uniforms or insignia distinguishing them as members of those forces or services; and
(f)	were required to carry arms openly; and
(g)	were subject to the rules and conventions of warfare.
Note:	For an extended meaning of the defence force of a government-in-exile in relation to an allied veteran see subsection 5R(2).
Refugee
(4)	For the purposes of Part III, a person is a refugee if the person:
(a)	is taken, under the Migration Reform (Transitional Provisions) Regulations, to be the holder of a transitional (permanent) visa because the person was, immediately before 1 September 1994, the holder of:
(i)	a visa or entry permit that fell within Division 1.3—Group 1.3 (Permanent resident (refugee and humanitarian) (offshore)) in Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the Migration (1993) Regulations as then in force; or
(ii)	a visa or entry permit that fell within Division 1.5—Group 1.5 (Permanent resident (refugee and humanitarian) (on-shore)) in Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the Migration (1993) Regulations as then in force; or
(b)	was, immediately before 1 February 1993, the holder of a visa or entry permit of a class prescribed under the Migration Regulations as then in force that corresponds to a visa or entry permit referred to in subparagraph (a)(i) or (ii); or
(c)	is the holder of:
(i)	a permanent protection visa; or
(ii)	a permanent visa of a class referred to in Schedule 2A; or
(iii)	a permanent visa of a class referred to in a declaration of the Minister under subsection (5) that is in force.
Declaration of class of visas
(5)	If:
(a)	after the commencement of this subsection, a class of permanent visas (other than a class referred to in Schedule 2A) is prescribed by regulations made for the purposes of section 31 of the Migration Act 1958; and
(b)	the Minister is of the view that a person holding a visa of that class should be regarded as a refugee for the purposes of Part III;
the Minister may, by legislative instrument, declare that class of visas to be a class of visas for the purposes of subparagraph (4)(c)(iii).
5D Injury/disease definitions
(1)	In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
blinded in an eye has the meaning given by subsection (3).
disease means:
(a)	any physical or mental ailment, disorder, defect or morbid condition (whether of sudden onset or gradual development); or
(b)	the recurrence of such an ailment, disorder, defect or morbid condition;
but does not include:
(c)	the aggravation of such an ailment, disorder, defect or morbid condition; or
(d)	a temporary departure from:
(i)	the normal physiological state; or
(ii)	the accepted ranges of physiological or biochemical measures;
that results from normal physiological stress (for example, the effect of exercise on blood pressure) or the temporary effect of extraneous agents (for example, alcohol on blood cholesterol levels).
incapacity from a defence-caused injury or incapacity from a defence-caused disease has the meaning given by subsection (2).
incapacity from a war-caused injury or incapacity from a war-caused disease has the meaning given by subsection (2).
injury means any physical or mental injury (including the recurrence of a physical or mental injury) but does not include:
(a)	a disease; or
(b)	the aggravation of a physical or mental injury.
War-caused injury; war-caused disease; defence-caused injury; defence-caused disease
(2)	In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
(a)	a reference to the incapacity of a veteran from a war-caused injury or a war-caused disease; or
(b)	a reference to the incapacity of a person who is a member of the Forces, or a member of a Peacekeeping Force (as defined by subsection 68(1)), from a defence-caused injury or a defence-caused disease;
is a reference to the effects of that injury or disease and not a reference to the injury or disease itself.
Note:	For war-caused injury and war-caused disease see section 9.
Blinded in an eye
(3)	For the purposes of this Act, a person is taken to have been blinded in an eye if:
(a)	the person has lost the eye; or
(b)	in the opinion of the Commission, the eyesight of the person in that eye is so defective that the person has no useful sight in that eye.
5E Family relationships definitions—couples
(1)	In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
couple has the meaning given by subsections (2), (3) and (4).
member of a couple has the meaning given by subsections (2), (3), (4) and (4A).
non-illness separated spouse means a person:
(a)	who is legally married to another person but living separately and apart from that other person on a permanent basis; and
(b)	whose separation has not resulted in a determination under subsection 5R(5).
partner, in relation to a person who is a member of a couple, means the other member of the couple.
partnered has the meaning given by subsection (5).
partnered (partner getting benefit) has the meaning given by subsection (5).
partnered (partner getting neither pension nor benefit) has the meaning given by subsection (5).
partnered (partner getting pension) has the meaning given by subsection (5).
partnered (partner getting pension or benefit) has the meaning given by subsection (5).
prohibited relationship has the meaning given by subsections (6) and (7).
war widow means a woman:
(a)	who was the partner of, was legally married to, or was the wholly dependent partner of:
(i)	a veteran; or
(ii)	a person who was a member of the Forces for the purposes of Part II or IV of this Act; or
(iii)	a person who was a member (within the meaning of the MRCA);
immediately before the death of the veteran or person; and
(b)	who:
(i)	is receiving a pension payable under Part II or IV of this Act at a rate determined under or by reference to subsection 30(1); or
(ii)	is receiving the weekly amount mentioned in paragraph 234(1)(b) of the MRCA (including a reduced weekly amount because of a choice under section 236 of the MRCA) or has received a lump sum mentioned in subsection 236(5) of the MRCA; or
(iii)	is receiving a pension that is payable under the law of a foreign country, and that is, in the opinion of the Commission, similar in character to a pension referred to in subparagraph (i).
war widower means a man:
(a)	who was the partner of, was legally married to, or was the wholly dependent partner of:
(i)	a veteran; or
(ii)	a person who was a member of the Forces for the purposes of Part II or IV of this Act; or
(iii)	a person who was a member (within the meaning of the MRCA);
immediately before the death of the veteran or person; and
(b)	who:
(i)	is receiving a pension payable under Part II or IV of this Act at a rate determined under or by reference to subsection 30(1); or
(ii)	is receiving the weekly amount mentioned in paragraph 234(1)(b) of the MRCA (including a reduced weekly amount because of a choice under section 236 of the MRCA) or has received a lump sum mentioned in subsection 236(5) of the MRCA; or
(iii)	is receiving a pension that is payable under the law of a foreign country, and that is, in the opinion of the Commission, similar in character to a pension referred to in subparagraph (i).
wholly dependent partner has the meaning given by the MRCA.
widow means:
(a)	a woman who was the partner of a person immediately before the person died; or
(b)	a woman who was legally married to a person, but living separately and apart from the person on a permanent basis, immediately before the person died.
widower means:
(a)	a man who was a partner of a person immediately before the person died; or
(b)	a man who was legally married to a person, but living separately and apart from the person on a permanent basis, immediately before the person died.
Member of a couple—general
(2)	A person is a member of a couple for the purposes of this Act if:
(a)	the person is legally married to another person and is not living separately and apart from the other person on a permanent basis; or
(aa)	both of the following conditions are met:
(i)	a relationship between the person and another person (whether of the same sex or a different sex) is registered under a law of a State or Territory prescribed for the purposes of section 2E of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 as a kind of relationship prescribed for the purposes of that section;
(ii)	the person is not living separately and apart from the other person on a permanent basis; or
(b)	all of the following conditions are met:
(i)	the person is living with another person, whether of the same sex or a different sex (in this paragraph called the partner);
(ii)	the person is not legally married to the partner;
(iii)	the person and the partner are, in the Commission’s opinion (formed as mentioned in section 11A), in a de facto relationship;
(iv)	the person and the partner are not within a prohibited relationship.
Note 1:	For living with a person see subsection (3).
Note 3:	Subsection 5R(5) (determination in relation to an illness separated couple) is a qualification to the definition of a member of a couple.
Note 4:	Subsection 5R(6) (determination in relation to a respite care couple) is a qualification to the definition of a member of a couple.
(3)	For the purposes of subparagraph (2)(b)(i), a person is to be treated as living with another person during:
(a)	any temporary absence of one of those persons;
(b)	an absence of one of those persons resulting from illness or infirmity;
if the Commission is of the opinion that they would, but for the absence, have been living together during that period.
Member of a couple—special excluding determination
(4)	A person is not a member of a couple if a determination under subsection 5R(3) is in force in relation to the person.
Note:	Subsection 5R(3) allows the Commission to treat a person who is a member of a couple as not being a member of a couple in special circumstances.
(4A)	The partner of a person who:
(a)	is receiving a youth allowance under the Social Security Act; and
(b)	is not independent within the meaning of Part 3.5 of that Act;
is not a member of a couple for the purposes of:
(c)	the provisions of this Act referred to in the table at the end of this subsection; and
(d)	any provision of this Act that applies for the purposes of a provision mentioned in paragraph (c).
Note:	Paragraph (d) has the effect of treating a person as not being a member of a couple in provisions that apply for the purposes of the income test, assets test or compensation recovery provisions, including section 5H (Income test definitions), sections 5L and 5LA (Assets test definitions), section 5NB (Compensation recovery definitions) and Divisions 1 to 11 of Part IIIB (General provisions relating to the income and assets tests).
Affected provisions
Item
Provisions of this Act
Subject matter
1
Part IIIC
Compensation recovery
2
Module E of the Rate Calculator in Part 2 of Schedule 6
Ordinary/adjusted income test
3
Module F of the Rate Calculator in Part 2 of Schedule 6
Assets test
Standard family situation categories
(5)	For the purposes of this Act:
(a)	a person is partnered if the person is a member of a couple; and
(b)	a person is partnered (partner getting neither pension nor benefit) if the person is a member of a couple and the person’s partner:
(i)	is not receiving a service pension; and
(ia)	is not receiving income support supplement; and
(ib)	is not receiving a veteran payment; and
(ii)	is not receiving a social security pension; and
(iii)	is not receiving a social security benefit; and
(c)	a person is partnered (partner getting pension or benefit) if the person is a member of a couple and the person’s partner is receiving:
(i)	a service pension; or
(ia)	income support supplement; or
(ib)	a veteran payment; or
(ii)	a social security pension; or
(iii)	a social security benefit; and
(d)	a person is partnered (partner getting pension) if the person is a member of a couple and the person’s partner is receiving:
(i)	a service pension; or
(ia)	income support supplement; or
(ib)	a veteran payment; or
(ii)	a social security pension; and
(e)	a person is partnered (partner getting benefit) if the person is a member of a couple and the person’s partner is receiving a social security benefit.
Prohibited relationship
(6)	For the purposes of this Act, a person and his or her partner are within a prohibited relationship if the person is:
(a)	an ancestor or a descendant of the partner; or
(b)	a brother, sister, half-brother or half-sister of the partner.
(7)	For the purposes of subsection (6), a child who is, or has ever been, an adopted child of a person is taken to be the natural child of that person and the person is taken to be the natural parent of the child.
5F Family relationships definitions—children
(1)	In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
Aboriginal study assistance scheme means:
(a)	the ABSTUDY Scheme; or
(b)	the Aboriginal Overseas Study Assistance Scheme; or
(c)	a scheme prescribed for the purposes of this definition.
adopted child means a child adopted under the law of any place, whether in Australia or not, relating to the adoption of children.
child means:
(a)	a person who has not turned 16; or
(b)	a person who:
(i)	has turned 16 but has not turned 25; and
(ii)	is receiving full-time education at a school, college or university;
but does not include such a person if the person is receiving:
(c)	a disability support pension; or
(e)	a carer payment; or
(f)	a pension PP (single); or
(h)	a widowed person allowance; or
(j)	a social security benefit (except youth allowance paid because the person is at least 16 but less than 25 and is receiving full-time education at a school, college or university);
under the Social Security Act.
dependent child has the same meaning as in the Social Security Act.
family tax benefit has the meaning given by subsection 3(1) of the Family Assistance Act.
FTB child has the meaning given by Subdivision A of Division 1 of Part 3 of the Family Assistance Act.
maximum Part A rate of family tax benefit is the maximum rate worked out in step 1 of the method statement in clause 3 of Schedule 1 to the Family Assistance Act.
parent has a meaning affected by section 10A.
regular care child has the meaning given by subsection 3(1) of the Family Assistance Act.
step-child: without limiting who is a step-child of a person for the purposes of this Act, someone who is a child of a partner of the person is the step-child of the person, if he or she would be the person’s step-child except that the person is not legally married to the partner.
step-parent: without limiting who is a step-parent of a person for the purposes of this Act, someone who is a partner of a parent of the person is the step-parent of the person, if he or she would be the person’s step-parent except that he or she is not legally married to the person’s parent.
When a person becomes a dependent child
(2)	A person becomes a dependent child at the time when the person would become a dependent child for the purposes of the Social Security Act if that Act applied in respect of the person.
5G Australian residence definitions
(1)	In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
Australian resident has the meaning given by subsection (1AA).
holder, in relation to a visa, has the same meaning as in the Migration Act 1958.
permanent visa, special category visa and special purpose visa have the same meanings as in the Migration Act 1958.
(1AA)	An Australian resident is a person who:
(a)	resides in Australia; and
(b)	is one of the following:
(i)	an Australian citizen;
(ii)	the holder of a permanent visa;
(iii)	the holder of a special category visa who is likely to remain permanently in Australia;
(iv)	the holder of a special purpose visa who is likely to remain permanently in Australia.
Note 1:	For holder, permanent visa and special purpose visa see subsection (1).
Note 2:	Australian citizen is defined in the Australian Citizenship Act 2007.
(1A)	In deciding for the purposes of this Act whether or not a person resides in Australia, regard must be had to:
(a)	the nature of the accommodation used by the person in Australia; and
(b)	the nature and extent of the family relationships the person has in Australia; and
(c)	the nature and extent of the person’s employment, business or financial ties with Australia; and
(ca)	the nature and extent of the person’s assets located in Australia; and
(cb)	the frequency and duration of the person’s travel outside Australia; and
(d)	any other matter relevant to determining whether the person intends to remain permanently in Australia.
(1AB)	For the purposes of paragraph (1A)(b), family relationships are taken to include (without limitation):
(a)	relationships between partners; and
(b)	relationships of child and parent that arise if someone is the parent of a person under section 10A; and
(c)	any other relationship that would be a family relationship if a relationship mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) is taken to be a family relationship.
Papua New Guinea residents
(2)	For the purposes of this Act (other than Part VIIC), a person (other than an indigenous inhabitant of the Territory of Papua or the Territory of New Guinea) resident in Papua New Guinea immediately before it became an independent sovereign State, is taken to be an Australian resident so long as the person continues to reside in Papua New Guinea.
(3)	If:
(a)	a person who is receiving a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment is taken to be an Australian resident under subsection (2); and
(b)	the person’s partner was resident in Papua New Guinea after it became an independent sovereign State;
the partner is, for the purposes of Parts III, IIIA, IIIAA and IIIB, also taken to be an Australian resident.
(4)	If:
(a)	a person who is receiving a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment is taken to be an Australian resident under subsection (2); and
(b)	the person’s non-illness separated spouse was resident in Papua New Guinea after it became an independent sovereign State;
the non-illness separated spouse is, for the purposes of Parts III, IIIA, IIIAA and IIIB, also taken to be an Australian resident.
5GA Pension supplement rate definitions
(1)	In this Act, the combined couple rate of pension supplement is $2,199.60.
Note 1:	This rate is indexed 6 monthly in line with CPI increases (see sections 59B to 59E).
Note 2:	This rate is an annual rate.
(2)	In this Act, the combined couple rate of minimum pension supplement is $1,185.60.
Note 1:	This rate is indexed 6 monthly in line with CPI increases (see sections 59B to 59E).
Note 2:	This rate is an annual rate.
(3)	In this Act, a person’s minimum pension supplement amount is the amount worked out by:
(a)	applying the applicable percentage in the following table to the combined couple rate of minimum pension supplement; and
(b)	if:
(i)	the person is not partnered; and
(ii)	the amount resulting from paragraph (a) is not a multiple of $2.60;
rounding the amount up or down to the nearest multiple of $2.60 (rounding up if the amount is not a multiple of $2.60 but is a multiple of $1.30).
Item
Person’s family situation
Use this %
1
Not member of couple
66.33%
2
Partnered
50%
3
Member of illness separated couple
66.33%
4
Member of respite care couple
66.33%
Note:	A person’s minimum pension supplement amount is an annual rate.
(4)	In this Act, a person’s pension supplement basic amount depends on which family situation in the following table applies to the person. The person’s pension supplement basic amount is the corresponding amount set out in the table.
Item
Person’s family situation
Amount
1
Not member of couple
$509.60
2
Partnered
$426.40
3
Member of illness separated couple
$509.60
4
Member of respite care couple
$509.60
Note 1:	Each amount in the table will be indexed 6 monthly in line with CPI increases (see sections 59B to 59E).
Note 2:	A person’s pension supplement basic amount is an annual rate.
(5)	In this Act, the daily rate of tax-exempt pension supplement, for a person who is receiving a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment is the amount a day worked out using the table.
Tax-exempt pension supplement
Item
Payment received
Amount a day of tax-exempt pension supplement
1
Service pension or veteran payment
The amount worked out by:
(a) subtracting the person’s pension supplement basic amount from the person’s pension supplement amount; and
(b) dividing the result of paragraph (a) by 364
2
Income support supplement
The person’s minimum pension supplement amount divided by 364
Note:	The portion of the person’s service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment equal to the tax-exempt pension supplement is exempt from income tax (see sections 52-65 and 52-70 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997).
(6)	If a person is receiving a service pension at a rate that:
(a)	is worked out under subpoint SCH6-A1(4) of Schedule 6 and is the revised rate; or
(b)	is worked out under subpoint SCH6-A1(5) of Schedule 6;
subsection (5) applies in relation to the person and the pension as if the person had a pension supplement amount equal to what would be the person’s pension supplement amount if the person were receiving the service pension at the rate worked out under subpoint SCH6-A1(4) of Schedule 6 and equal to the provisional rate.
5H Income test definitions
(1)	In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
adjusted income, in relation to a person for the purpose of assessment of the rate of income support supplement, means the sum of:
(a)	the person’s ordinary income; and
(b)	a payment to the person that is a payment in respect of incapacity or death resulting from employment in connection with a war or war-like operations in which the Crown has been engaged, other than:
(i)	a pension under Part II or IV (other than a pension that is payable under section 30 to a dependant of a deceased veteran); or
(ii)	a pension payable because of subsection 4(6) or (8B) of the Veterans’ Entitlements (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 1986 (other than a pension payable in respect of a child); and
(c)	any instalment of pension payable to the person under subsection 30(1); and
(ca)	if compensation under section 233 of the MRCA is payable to the person and the person has not made a choice under section 236 of the MRCA—any payment of the weekly amount mentioned in paragraph 234(1)(b) of the MRCA; and
(cb)	if compensation under section 233 of the MRCA is payable to the person and the person has made a choice under section 236 of the MRCA—any weekly amount mentioned in paragraph 234(1)(b) of the MRCA that the person would have been paid if the person had not made that choice; and
(d)	any instalment of pension that is payable to the person under the law of a foreign country and is, in the opinion of the Commission, similar in character to the pension referred to in paragraph (c).
approved exchange trading system has the meaning given by subsection (11).
available money, in relation to a person, means money that:
(a)	is held by or on behalf of the person; and
(b)	is not deposit money of the person; and
(c)	is not the subject of a loan made by the person.
deposit money, in relation to a person, means the person’s money that is deposited in an account with a financial institution.
disposes of ordinary income has the meaning given by section 48.
domestic payment has the meaning given by subsection (3).
earned, derived or received has the meaning given by subsection (2).
exchange trading system has the meaning given by subsection (10).
exempt lump sum has the meaning given by subsections (12) and (12A).
home equity conversion agreement, in relation to a person, means an agreement under which the repayment of an amount paid to or on behalf of the person, or the person’s partner, is secured by a mortgage of the principal home of the person or the person’s partner.
Note 1:	See also subsection (7).
Note 2:	A home equity access scheme advance payment (within the meaning of Subdivision E of Division 11 of Part IIIB) is an example of a payment under a home equity conversion agreement.
income, in relation to a person, means:
(a)	an income amount earned, derived or received by the person for the person’s own use or benefit; or
(b)	a periodical payment by way of gift or allowance; or
(c)	a periodical benefit by way of gift or allowance;
but does not include an amount that is excluded under subsection (4), (5) or (8).
Note 1:	See also sections 46B and 46C (business income), Division 3 of Part IIIB (income from financial assets (including income streams (short term) and certain income streams (long term)) and Division 4 of Part IIIB (income from income streams not covered by Division 3 of Part IIIB).
Note 2:	Where a person or a person’s partner has disposed of income, the person’s income may be taken to include the amount which has been disposed of—see sections 48–48E.
Note 3:	Amounts of maintenance income are not excluded amounts.
income amount means:
(a)	valuable consideration; or
(b)	personal earnings; or
(c)	moneys; or
(d)	profits;
(whether of a capital nature or not).
instalment of parental leave pay means an instalment of parental leave pay under the Paid Parental Leave Act 2010.
ordinary income means income that is not maintenance income or an exempt lump sum.
Note 1:	For maintenance income see section 5K. For exempt lump sum, see subsections (12) and (12A).
Note 2:	The receipt of periodic compensation payments may result in reduction of the person’s rate of service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment under Part IIIC. If this happens, the payments are not treated as ordinary income (see section 59X).
Note 3:	For provisions affecting the amount of a person’s ordinary income see sections 46 and 46A (ordinary income concept), sections 46B and 46C (business income), Division 3 of Part IIIB (income from financial assets (including income streams (short term) and certain income streams (long term)) and Division 4 of Part IIIB (income from income streams not covered by Division 3 of Part IIIB).
Earned, derived or received
(2)	A reference in this Act to an income amount earned, derived or received is a reference to:
(a)	an income amount earned, derived or received by any means; and
(b)	an income amount earned, derived or received from any source (whether within or outside Australia).
Domestic payments
(3)	A payment received by a person is a domestic payment for the purposes of this Act if:
(a)	the person receives the payment on the disposal of an asset of the person; and
(b)	the asset was used, immediately before the disposal, by the person or the person’s partner wholly or substantially for private or domestic purposes; and
(c)	the asset was used by the person or the person’s partner wholly or substantially for those purposes for:
(i)	a period of 12 months before the disposal; or
(ii)	if the Commission considers it appropriate—a period of less than 12 months before the disposal.
Excluded amounts—home equity conversion (not a member of a couple)
(4)	If a person is not a member of a couple, an amount paid to or on behalf of the person under a home equity conversion agreement is an excluded amount for the person to the extent that the total amount owed by the person from time to time under home equity conversion agreements does not exceed $40,000.
Excluded amounts—home equity conversion (member of a couple)
(5)	If a person is a member of a couple, an amount paid to or on behalf of the person or the person’s partner under a home equity conversion agreement is an excluded amount for the person to the extent that the total amount owed by the person and the person’s partner under home equity conversion agreements from time to time does not exceed $40,000.
Home equity conversion (amount owed)
(6)	For the purposes of this Act, the amount owed by a person under a home equity conversion agreement is the principal amount secured by the mortgage concerned and does not include:
(a)	any amount representing mortgage fees; or
(b)	any amount representing interest; or
(c)	any similar liability whose repayment is also secured by the mortgage.
Home equity conversion (principal home)
(7)	For the purposes of the definition of home equity conversion agreement in subsection (1), an asset cannot be a person’s principal home unless the person or the person’s partner has a beneficial interest (but not necessarily the sole beneficial interest) in the asset.
Excluded amounts—general
(8)	The following amounts are not income in relation to a person for the purposes of this Act:
(a)	a payment under Part III or Part IIIA;
(aa)	a veteran payment;
(ab)	a home equity access scheme advance payment (within the meaning of section 52ZBA);
(b)	a payment of an instalment of pension under Part II or IV;
(ba)	a payment of an instalment of a supplement under Part VIIA (veterans supplement);
(c)	a payment of an instalment of a pension (other than a pension payable in respect of a child) payable because of subsection 4(6) or (8B) of the Veterans’ Entitlements (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 1986;
(e)	a payment (other than a payment referred to in paragraph (b) or (c)) that is a payment in respect of incapacity or death resulting from employment in connection with a war or war-like operations in which the Crown has been engaged;
Note:	However, a payment referred to in paragraph (b), (c) or (e) is counted in working out a person’s total income for the purposes of the hardship rules (see section 52Z).
(ea)	any payment of compensation (other than a payment referred to in paragraph (e)) to the extent that the payment is taken into account:
(i)	under Division 5A of Part II; or
(ii)	under section 74;
to reduce a pension payable to the person under Part II or IV, as the case requires;
Note:	However, a payment referred to in paragraph (ea) is counted in working out a person’s total income for the purposes of the hardship rules (see section 52Z).
(f)	a payment by way of allowance (other than a loss of earnings allowance) under Part VI of this Act;
Note:	However, a payment referred to in paragraph (f) is counted in working out a person’s total income for the purposes of the hardship rules (see section 52Z).
(fa)	a payment under section 230A of the MRCA (Victoria Cross allowance) or under an instrument made under section 230C of the MRCA (decoration allowance);
(faa)	a payment, by a foreign country, of an allowance or annuity that is of a similar kind to decoration allowance payable under an instrument made under section 230C of the MRCA or to Victoria Cross allowance payable under section 230A of the MRCA;
Note:	However, a payment referred to in paragraph (faa) is counted in working out a person’s total income for the purposes of the hardship rules (see section 52Z).
(faaa)	a payment under section 268AM of the MRCA (prisoner of war recognition supplement);
Note:	However, a payment referred to in paragraph (faaa) is counted in working out a person’s total income for the purposes of the hardship rules (see section 52Z).
(gb)	a payment under Part VIIAD (energy supplement);
(h)	a payment under the Social Security Act;
(ha)	a payment under the ABSTUDY Scheme;
(haa)	the amount or value of a scholarship known as a Commonwealth Trade Learning Scholarship;
(hab)	a payment of an approved scholarship (within the meaning of subsection 8(1) of the Social Security Act 1991) awarded on or after 1 September 1990;
(hac)	the amount or value of a scholarship:
(i)	provided for under Part 2-2A of the Higher Education Support Act 2003 (Indigenous student assistance grants); and
(ii)	specified under subsection 8(8AAA) of the Social Security Act 1991;
(hb)	the amount or value of:
(i)	a scholarship known as a Commonwealth Education Costs Scholarship; or
(ii)	a scholarship known as a Commonwealth Accommodation Scholarship;
provided for under the Commonwealth Scholarships Guidelines made for the purposes of Part 2-4 of the Higher Education Support Act 2003;
(hc)	an amount covered by subsection (8A) (about reductions of amounts payable for enrolment or tuition in certain courses);
(hd)	a payment covered by subsection (8B) (about payments that are made to an educational institution or the Commonwealth to reduce a person’s liability to the educational institution or Commonwealth and that are made by someone other than the person);
(he)	a payment of a scholarship, to the extent that the payment is not income for the purposes of the Social Security Act 1991 because of paragraph 8(8)(zjd) of that Act;
(i)	any return on a person’s investment in:
(i)	a superannuation fund; or
(ii)	an approved deposit fund; or
(iiia)	an ATO small superannuation account;
until the person:
(iv)	reaches pension age; or
(v)	commences to receive a pension or annuity out of the fund;
Note 1:	For pension age see subsection (9) and sections 5QA and 5QB.
Note 2:	For superannuation fund, approved deposit fund and ATO small superannuation account see subsection 5J(1).
(j)	the value of emergency relief or like assistance;
(m)	a payment under Part III of the former Disability Services Act 1986 or the value of any rehabilitation program (including any follow-up program) provided under that Part;
(maa)	the value of supports or services that are specified in an instrument under subsection 8(8AAAB) of the Social Security Act and are provided under an arrangement or grant under the Disability Services and Inclusion Act 2023;
(ma)	a payment under the Business Services Wage Assessment Tool Payment Scheme Act 2015;
(mb)	a payment under the National Redress Scheme for Institutional Child Sexual Abuse Act 2018;
(mc)	a payment under the scheme known as the Territories Stolen Generations Redress Scheme;
(n)	a payment of domiciliary nursing care benefit under Part VB of the National Health Act 1953 as in force immediately before 1 July 1999;
(na)	a payment of subsidy made to a registered provider under Division 4 of Part 2 of Chapter 4 of the Aged Care Act 2024 in respect of care delivered to the person;
(nb)	an accommodation bond balance (within the meaning of the Aged Care Act 2024) refunded to the person under that Act;
(nba)	a payment under section 186 of the Aged Care Act 2024;
(nc)	while a person is accruing a liability to pay an accommodation charge—any rent from the person’s principal home that the person, or the person’s partner, earns, derives or receives from another person;
Note 1:	Accommodation charge has the same meaning as in the Aged Care Act 2024: see subsection 5L(1).
Note 2:	For rent, see subsection 5N(2).
Note 3:	Under subsections 5LA(8) and (9), the principal home of a person in a care situation may be a place other than the place where the person receives care.
Note 4:	The operation of this paragraph is limited by subsection (11A).
(nd)	while a person is liable to pay all or some of an accommodation bond by periodic payments—any rent from the person’s principal home that the person, or the person’s partner, earns, derives or receives from another person;
Note 1:	For rent, see subsection 5N(2).
Note 2:	Under subsections 5LA(8) and (9), the principal home of a person in a care situation may be a place other than the place where the person receives care.
Note 3:	The operation of this paragraph is limited by subsection (11A).
(ne)	a refundable deposit balance refunded to the person under the Aged Care Act 2024;
(nf)	while a person is liable to pay a daily accommodation payment or a daily accommodation contribution—any rent from the person’s principal home that the person, or the person’s partner, earns, derives or receives from another person;
Note 1:	For rent, see subsection 5N(2).
Note 2:	Under subsections 5LA(8) and (9), the principal home of a person in a care situation may be a place other than the place where the person receives care.
Note 3:	The operation of this paragraph is limited by subsection (11A).
(o)	a payment under a Commonwealth law, one of whose objects is that of assisting people to purchase or build their own homes;
(oa)	a payment by a State or Territory for the purpose of assisting people to purchase or build their own homes;
(p)	a payment made to the person for or in respect of a child of the person;
(paa)	a payment of family assistance, or of one-off payment to families, economic security strategy payment to families, back to school bonus, single income family bonus, clean energy advance, ETR payment, first 2020 economic support payment, second 2020 economic support payment, additional economic support payment 2020 or additional economic support payment 2021, under the Family Assistance Act;
(pab)	a payment under the scheme determined under Schedule 3 to the Family Assistance Legislation Amendment (More Help for Families—One-off Payments) Act 2004;
(paba)	an NDIS amount;
(pabb)	any return on a person’s NDIS amounts;
(pabc)	a payment of a bursary under the program established by the Commonwealth and known as the Young Carer Bursary Programme;
(pac)	disability expenses maintenance;
(pa)	if:
(i)	the person owes money under a mortgage or other arrangement; and
(ii)	the person has insurance which requires the insurer to make payments to the creditor when the person is unemployed or ill or in other specified circumstances; and
(iii)	payments are made to the creditor under the insurance;
a payment so made;
(q)	insurance or compensation payments made because of the loss of, or damage to, buildings, plant or personal effects;
Note:	These payments are to be disregarded in calculating the value of a person’s assets (see paragraph 52(1)(o)).
(r)	money from an investment that is:
(i)	an investment of payments of the kind referred to in paragraph (q); and
(ii)	an investment for:
(A)	a period of not more than 12 months after the person receives the payments; or
(B)	if the Commission thinks it appropriate—of 12 months or more after the person receives those payments;
(s)	an amount paid, under a law of, or applying in, a country or part of a country, by way of compensation for a victim of National Socialist persecution;
(u)	if the person pays, or is liable to pay, rent—a payment by way of rent subsidy made by the Commonwealth, by a State or Territory or by an authority of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory to or on behalf of the person who pays or who is liable to pay rent;
(v)	a payment received by a trainee in full-time training under a program included in the programs known as Labour Market Programs, to the extent that the payment includes one or more of the following amounts:
(i)	an amount calculated by reference to a rate of jobseeker payment or youth allowance under the Social Security Act;
(ii)	an amount known as the training component;
(iii)	an amount by way of a living away from home allowance;
(w)	in the case of a person who:
(i)	is receiving a service pension, income support supplement, a veteran payment, a social security pension or a social security benefit; and
(ii)	is in part-time training, or engaged in part-time work experience, under a program included in the programs known as Labour Market Programs;
a payment received by the person under that program in respect of the person’s expenses associated with his or her participation in the training or work experience;
(x)	a payment received by the person under a self-employment program;
(xaa)	a payment made by the Commonwealth known as the Apprenticeship Wage Top-Up to the person;
(xab)	a payment to the person made by the Commonwealth under the program known as Skills for Sustainability for Australian Apprentices;
(xac)	a payment to the person made by the Commonwealth under the program known as Tools for Your Trade (within the program known as the Australian Apprenticeships Incentives Program);
(xad)	a payment made by the Commonwealth, under the program established by the Commonwealth and known as “Youth Jobs PaTH”, to an individual placed in an internship under that program;
(xa)	a payment made by the Mark Fitzpatrick Trust or the New South Wales Medically-Acquired HIV Trust to a person by way of assistance with expenses incurred in relation to a person who has medically acquired HIV infection;
(xb)	a payment by the Thalidomide Australia Fixed Trust:
(i)	made to, or applied for the benefit of, a beneficiary of the Trust; or
(ii)	made to a person in respect of a beneficiary of the Trust;
(xc)	a payment under the program established by the Commonwealth and known as the Support for Australia’s Thalidomide Survivors program;
(y)	a benefit under a law of the Commonwealth that relates to the provision of:
(i)	pharmaceutical, sickness or hospital benefits; or
(ii)	medical or dental services;
(ya)	a payment towards the cost of personal care support services for the person that is made under a scheme approved under section 35A of the Social Security Act;
(z)	a payment that:
(i)	is made by an organisation that is registered under a law referred to in paragraph (y); and
(ii)	is made in respect of expenses incurred by a person for:
(A)	hospital treatment; or
(B)	medical treatment; or
(C)	dental treatment;
(za)	in the case of a member of:
(i)	the Naval Reserve; or
(ii)	the Army Reserve; or
(iii)	the Air Force Reserve;
the pay and allowances paid to the person as such a member (other than pay and allowances in respect of continuous full-time service);
(zb)	a payment that is a bereavement payment under section 98A;
(zd)	a periodical payment by way of gift or allowance, or a periodical benefit by way of gift or allowance, from a parent, child, brother or sister of the person;
(ze)	the value of board or lodging received by the person;
(zea)	an amount received under the scheme known as the Western Australian Cost of Living Rebate Scheme;
(zeb)	the value of a benefit obtained by using a card known as the Western Australian Country Age Pension Fuel Card;
(zec)	a payment, known as the Cost of Living Concession, made by the Government of South Australia;
(zf)	a domestic payment;
(zh)	a payment received by the person for serving, or being summoned to serve, on a jury;
(zi)	a payment received by the person for expenses incurred by the person as a witness, other than an expert witness, before a court, tribunal or commission;
(zj)	a return on an exempt funeral investment;
Note:	For exempt funeral investment see section 5PC.
(zk)	an amount paid by a buyer under a sale leaseback agreement;
(zl)	if a person is a member of an approved exchange trading system—an amount credited to the person’s account for the purposes of the scheme in respect of any goods or services provided by the person to another member;
Note:	For approved exchange trading system see subsections (10) and (11).
(zm)	an advance payment of pension under Part IVA;
(zn)	an amount worked out under section 115G;
(zo)	a payment under section 47, 56, 81, 205, 214, 217, 226, 239 or 266 of the MRCA to reimburse costs incurred in respect of the provision of goods or services (other than a payment to the person who provided the goods or service);
(zp)	a payment (either as a weekly amount or a lump sum) under section 68, 71, 75 or 80 of the MRCA (permanent impairment);
(zq)	a payment of a Special Rate Disability Pension under Part 6 of Chapter 4 of the MRCA;
(zr)	if subsection 204(5) of the MRCA applies to a person—an amount per fortnight, worked out under section 5I of this Act, that would, apart from this paragraph, be income of the person;
Note:	Subsection 204(5) of the MRCA reduces a Special Rate Disability Pension by reference to amounts of Commonwealth superannuation that the person has received or is receiving.
(zs)	a payment under the Motor Vehicle Compensation Scheme under section 212 of the MRCA;
(zsa)	a payment of an Additional Disablement Amount under Division 3A of Part 7 of Chapter 4 of the MRCA;
(zsb)	if subsection 220C(5) of the MRCA applies to a person—an amount per fortnight, worked our under section 5IA of this Act, that would, apart from this paragraph, be income of the person;
Note:	Subsection 220C(5) of the MRCA reduces an Additional Disablement Amount by reference to amounts of Commonwealth superannuation that the person has received or is receiving.
(zt)	a payment of MRCA supplement under section 221, 245 or 300 of the MRCA;
(zu)	a payment of a lump sum mentioned in paragraph 234(1)(a) or subsection 236(5) of the MRCA or of the weekly amount mentioned in paragraph 234(1)(b) of the MRCA (including a reduced weekly amount because of a choice under section 236 of the MRCA) (wholly dependent partner payment);
(zv)	a payment under section 242 or 255 of the MRCA (continuing permanent impairment and incapacity etc. payments);
(zw)	a payment under section 251 or 253 of the MRCA (eligible young person payment);
(zx)	a payment under the scheme set up under section 258 of the MRCA (education scheme for eligible young persons and other children);
(zy)	a payment under section 262 of the MRCA (compensation for other dependants);
(zya)	a payment under section 268AJ of the MRCA (compensation in respect of former members and civilians interned by certain military forces);
(zz)	a payment under Division 1A, 2 or 3 of Part 4 of Chapter 6, or subsection 328(4), of the MRCA (compensation for treatment etc.);
(zza)	a payment under section 424 of the MRCA (special assistance);
(zzaaaa)	a clean energy payment under the MRCA;
(zzah)	a clean energy payment under Part IIIE;
(zzaj)	a one-off energy assistance payment under Part IIIF;
(zzak)	a one-off energy assistance payment under Part IIIG;
(zzal)	a first 2020 economic support payment under Division 1 of Part IIIH;
(zzam)	a second 2020 economic support payment under Division 2 of Part IIIH;
(zzan)	an additional economic support payment 2020 under Division 1 of Part IIIJ;
(zzao)	an additional economic support payment 2021 under Division 2 of Part IIIJ;
(zzap)	a 2022 cost of living payment under Division 1 of Part IIIK;
(zzb)	the value of the benefit provided under the initiative known as the Tools for Your Trade initiative;
(zzc)	a cash flow boost (within the meaning of the Boosting Cash Flow for Employers (Coronavirus Economic Response Package) Act 2020);
(zzd)	a payment:
(i)	paid in accordance with rules made under the Coronavirus Economic Response Package (Payments and Benefits) Act 2020; and
(ii)	stated, in those rules, not to be income in relation to the person for the purposes of this Act;
(zze)	a payment under an instrument made under any of the following:
(i)	section 115S of this Act;
(ii)	section 268B of the MRCA;
(ii)	section 41B of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988;
(zzf)	a payment made by the Commonwealth to an individual under a program that is established by the Commonwealth and is determined in an instrument under subsection 8(8AC) of the Social Security Act to be an employment program;
(zzg)	a payment made by a State or Territory to an individual under a program that is established by the State or Territory and is determined in an instrument under subsection 8(8AC) of the Social Security Act to be an employment program.
Note:	However, some of the amounts referred to in paragraphs (zp), (zq), (zr), (zsb) and (zu) are counted for the purposes of the hardship rules (see subsection 52Z(3A)).
(8AA)	Paragraph (8)(h) does not apply to a payment under an arrangement or grant referred to in section 1062A of the Social Security Act. This subsection does not prevent another paragraph of subsection (8) from applying to such a payment.
(8A)	This subsection covers the amount of a reduction (by discount, remission or waiver) of an amount that would otherwise be payable by a person:
(a)	to an educational institution for enrolment or tuition of the person by the institution in a course that:
(i)	is determined, under section 5D of the Student Assistance Act 1973, to be a secondary course or a tertiary course for the purposes of that Act; or
(ii)	is a Masters or Doctoral degree course accredited as a higher education course by the authority responsible for accrediting higher education courses in the State or Territory in which the course is conducted or by the institution, if it is permitted by a law of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory to accredit higher education courses that it conducts; or
(iii)	is a course of vocational training; or
(b)	to the Commonwealth as a result of the person’s enrolment in, or undertaking of, such a course at an educational institution.
(8B)	This subsection covers a payment:
(a)	that is made to discharge, or to prevent from arising, to any extent:
(i)	a person’s actual or anticipated liability to an educational institution for enrolment or tuition of the person by the institution in a course described in paragraph (8A)(a); or
(ii)	a person’s actual or anticipated liability to the Commonwealth resulting from the person’s enrolment in, or undertaking of, such a course at an educational institution; and
(b)	that is made by someone other than the person; and
(c)	that is made to the institution or the Commonwealth; and
(d)	that is not made at the direction of the person.
(9)	For the purposes of the application of subsection (8) in relation to income support supplement, the reference in subparagraph (8)(i)(iv) to pension age is taken to be a reference to the qualifying age.
Note:	For qualifying age see section 5Q.
(10)	An exchange trading system is an arrangement between a number of people (members) under which each member may obtain goods or services from another member that is wholly or partly in kind rather than in cash. Each member has, for the purposes of the arrangement, an account:
(a)	to which is credited:
(i)	the amount representing the value of any goods or services provided by the member to another member; or
(ii)	if the goods or services were partly paid for in cash—the amount referred to in subparagraph (i) less the amount so paid in cash; and
(b)	to which is debited:
(i)	the amount representing the value of any goods or services supplied to the member by another member; or
(ii)	if the goods or services were partly paid for in cash—the amount referred to in subparagraph (i) less the amount so paid in cash.
(11)	An exchange trading system is an approved exchange trading system if the Commission is satisfied that:
(a)	it is a local community-based system; and
(b)	its primary purpose is to help people maintain their labour skills and keep them in touch with the labour market; and
(c)	it is not a system run by a person or organisation for profit.
(11A)	Paragraphs (8)(nc), (nd) and (nf) do not apply in relation to a person if:
(a)	those paragraphs did not apply in relation to the person immediately before the commencement of the Aged Care Act 2024; or
(b)	a period of 28 consecutive days ends after that commencement in which the person:
(i)	was not provided with residential care or flexible care through a residential care service or a flexible care service; and
(ii)	did not access ongoing funded aged care services in an approved residential care home;
other than because the person was on leave.
(11C)	An expression used in subsection (11A) and in the Aged Care Act 2024 or the Aged Care Act 1997 (as in force immediately before the commencement of the Aged Care Act 2024) has the same meaning in that subsection as in those Acts.
(12)	An amount received by a person is an exempt lump sum if:
(a)	it is not a periodic amount (within the meaning of subsection (13)); and
(b)	it is not income from remunerative work undertaken by the person; and
(c)	it is an amount, or one of a class of amounts, that the Commission determines to be an exempt lump sum.
(12A)	An amount received by a person is also an exempt lump sum if the amount is an exempt lump sum within the meaning of subsection 8(11) of the Social Security Act 1991.
(13)	An amount is a periodic amount if it is:
(a)	the amount of one payment in a series of related payments, even if the payments are irregular in time and amount; or
(b)	the amount of a payment making up for arrears in such a series.
5I Special Rate Disability Pension reduction amount
For the purposes of paragraphs 5H(8)(zr) and 52Z(3A)(i), the amount per fortnight is:
where:
Special Rate Disability Pension reduction amount means the amount by which the Special Rate Disability Pension (as reduced under subsection 204(3)) is reduced under subsection 204(6) of the MRCA (but not below zero).
5IA Additional Disablement Amount reduction amount
For the purposes of paragraphs 5H(8)(zsb) and 52Z(3A)(ib), the amount per fortnight is:
where:
Additional Disablement Amount reduction amount means the amount by which the Additional Disablement Amount (as reduced under subsection 220C(3) of the MRCA) is reduced under subsection 220C(6) of the MRCA (but not below zero).
5J Financial assets and income streams definitions
(1)	In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
approved deposit fund has the same meaning as in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
asset-tested income stream (lifetime) has the meaning given by section 5JE.
asset-tested income stream (long term) means an income stream that is an asset-tested income stream (long term) under section 5JD or an income stream that:
(a)	is not an asset-test exempt income stream; and
(b)	has, on its commencement day:
(i)	a specified term of more than 5 years; or
(ii)	if the person who has acquired the income stream has a life expectancy of 5 years or less—a specified term equal to or greater than the person’s life expectancy.
Note:	Since the income stream must be for a specified term, an asset-tested income stream (long term) cannot be an asset-tested income stream (lifetime).
asset-tested income stream (short term) means an income stream that is an asset-tested income stream (short term) under section 5JD or an income stream that is none of the following:
(a)	an asset-test exempt income stream;
(b)	an asset-tested income stream (long term);
(c)	an asset-tested income stream (lifetime).
asset-test exempt income stream has the meanings given by sections 5JA, 5JB, 5JBA and 5JBB.
ATO small superannuation account means an account kept in the name of an individual under the Small Superannuation Accounts Act 1995.
commencement day, in relation to an income stream, means the first day of the period to which the first payment under the income stream relates.
deductible amount, in relation to a defined benefit income stream for a year, means the sum of the amounts that are the tax free components (worked out under Subdivision 307-C of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 or, if applicable, section 307-125 of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997) of the payments received from the defined benefit income stream during the year.
defined benefit income stream has the meaning given by subsection (1E).
deprived asset has the meaning given by subsection (2B).
designated NDIS amount means:
(a)	an NDIS amount that is deposited in an account with a financial institution; and
(b)	any return on the NDIS amount that a person earns, derives or receives.
family law affected income stream has the meaning given by section 5JC.
financial asset means:
(a)	a financial investment; or
(b)	a deprived asset.
Note:	For deprived asset see subsection (2B).
financial investment means:
(a)	available money; or
(b)	deposit money; or
(c)	a managed investment; or
(d)	a listed security; or
(e)	a loan that has not been repaid in full; or
(f)	an unlisted public security; or
(g)	gold, silver or platinum bullion; or
(h)	an asset-tested income stream (short term); or
(i)	an asset-tested income stream (long term) that is an account-based pension within the meaning of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations 1994; or
(j)	an asset-tested income stream (long term) that is an annuity (within the meaning of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993) provided under a contract that meets the requirements determined in an instrument under subsection (1G);
but does not include a designated NDIS amount.
Note:	For loan see subsections (2) and (2A).
friendly society means:
(a)	a body that is a friendly society for the purposes of the Life Insurance Act 1995; or
(b)	a body that is registered or incorporated as a friendly society under a law of a State or Territory; or
(c)	a body that is permitted, by a law of a State or Territory, to assume or use the expression friendly society; or
(d)	a body that, immediately before the date that is the transfer date for the purposes of the Financial Sector Reform (Amendments and Transitional Provisions) Act (No. 1) 1999, was registered or incorporated as a friendly society under a law of a State or Territory; or
(e)	a body that had, before 13 December 1987, been approved for the purpose of the definition of friendly society in subsection 115(1) of the Social Security Act 1947.
governing rules, in relation to an income stream, means any trust instrument, other document or legislation, or combination of them, governing the establishment and operation of the income stream.
income stream means:
(a)	an income stream arising under arrangements that are regulated by the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993; or
(b)	an income stream arising under a public sector superannuation scheme (within the meaning of that Act); or
(c)	an income stream arising under a retirement savings account; or
(d)	an income stream provided as life insurance business by a life company registered under section 21 of the Life Insurance Act 1995; or
(f)	an income stream designated in writing by the Commission for the purposes of this definition, having regard to the guidelines determined under subsection (1F); or
(fa)	a family law affected income stream;
but does not include any of the following:
(g)	available money;
(h)	deposit money;
(i)	a managed investment;
(j)	a listed security;
(k)	a loan that has not been repaid in full;
(l)	an unlisted public security;
(m)	gold, silver or platinum bullion;
(n)	a payment of compensation to a person, or a payment to a person under an insurance scheme, in relation to:
(i)	the person’s inability to earn, derive or receive income from remunerative work; or
(ii)	the person’s total and permanent disability or incapacity.
investment:
(a)	in relation to a superannuation fund or approved deposit fund—has the meaning given by subsection (6); or
(b)	in relation to an ATO small superannuation account—has the meaning given by subsection (6A).
investor, in relation to an ATO small superannuation account, means the person in whose name the account is kept.
life expectancy has the same meaning as life expectation factor has in section 27H of the Income Tax Assessment Act.
listed security means:
(a)	a share in a company; or
(b)	another security;
listed on a stock exchange.
loan has a meaning affected by subsections (2) and (2A).
managed investment has the meaning given by subsections (1A), (1B) and (1C).
military invalidity pension income stream has the meaning given by subsection (1EA).
original family law affected income stream has the meaning given by section 5JC.
primary FLA income stream has the meaning given by section 5JC.
public unit trust means a unit trust that:
(a)	except where paragraph (b) applies—was, in relation to the unit trust’s last year of income, a public unit trust for the purposes of Division 6B of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act; or
(b)	where the first year of income of the unit trust has not yet finished—has, at some time since the trust was established, satisfied at least one of the paragraphs of subsection 102G(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act.
purchase price, in relation to an income stream, means the sum of the payments made to purchase the income stream (including amounts paid by way of employer and employee contributions) less any commuted amounts.
relevant number, in relation to an income stream, means:
(a)	if the income stream is payable for a fixed number of years—that number; or
(b)	if the income stream is payable during the lifetime of a person and no longer—the number of years of the person’s life expectancy; or
(c)	if the income stream:
(i)	is jointly owned by a person and his or her partner and is payable for the lifetime of the person or the partner; or
(ii)	is payable during the lifetime of a person and then for the lifetime of a reversionary beneficiary;
the number of years in the longer of the relevant life expectancies; or
(d)	in any other case—the number that the Commission considers appropriate having regard to the number of years in the total period during which the income stream will be, or may reasonably be expected to be, payable.
residual capital value, in relation to an income stream, means the capital amount payable on the termination of the income stream.
Note:	An account-based income stream does not have a residual capital value (see subsection (9) of this section).
retirement savings account has the meaning that it has in the Retirement Savings Accounts Act 1997.
return:
(a)	in relation to an ATO small superannuation account—means so much of the balance of the account as is attributable to interest; or
(b)	in relation to any other investment (including an investment in the nature of superannuation)—means any increase, whether of a capital or income nature and whether or not distributed, in the value or amount of the investment.
secondary FLA income stream has the meaning given by section 5JC.
superannuation benefit, in relation to a person, means:
(a)	a benefit arising directly or indirectly from amounts contributed (whether by the person or by any other person) to a superannuation fund in respect of the person; or
(b)	a payment under Part 7 of the Small Superannuation Accounts Act 1995, where the payment is in respect of an ATO small superannuation account kept in the name of the person.
superannuation contributions surcharge has the meaning that it has in the Superannuation Contributions Tax (Assessment and Collection) Act 1997.
superannuation fund means:
(a)	a fund that is or has been a complying superannuation fund within the meaning of section 45 of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 in relation to any tax year; or
(b)	an Australian superannuation fund (within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997) that is not a complying superannuation fund mentioned in paragraph (a) in relation to any tax year; or
(c)	a scheme for the payment of benefits upon retirement or death that is constituted by or under a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory; or
(d)	an RSA within the meaning of the Retirement Savings Accounts Act 1997; or
(e)	any of the following funds (unless the fund is a foreign superannuation fund):
(i)	a fund to which paragraph 23(jaa), or section 23FC, 121CC or 121DAB, of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (as in force at any time before the commencement of section 1 of the Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 2) 1989) has applied in relation to any tax year;
(ii)	a fund to which paragraph 23(ja), or section 23F or 23FB, of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (as in force at any time before the commencement of paragraph (a) of the definition of superannuation fund in former subsection 27A(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936) has applied in relation to the tax year that started on 1 July 1985 or an earlier tax year;
(iii)	a fund to which section 79 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (as in force at any time before 25 June 1984) has applied in relation to the tax year that started on 1 July 1983 or an earlier tax year.
Note:	For foreign superannuation fund see subsection 5L(1).
unlisted public security means:
(a)	a share in a public company; or
(b)	another security;
that is not listed on a stock exchange.
(1A)	Subject to subsections (1B) and (1C), an investment is a managed investment for the purposes of this Act if:
(a)	the money or property invested is paid by the investor directly or indirectly to a body corporate or into a trust fund; and
(b)	the assets that represent the money or property invested (the invested assets) are not held in the names of investors; and
(c)	the investor does not have effective control over the management of the invested assets; and
(d)	the investor has a legally enforceable right to share in any distribution of income or profits derived from the invested assets.
(1B)	Without limiting the generality of subsection (1A) but subject to subsection (1C), the following are managed investments for the purposes of this Act:
(a)	an investment in a public unit trust;
(b)	an investment in an insurance bond;
(c)	an investment with a friendly society;
(d)	an investment in a superannuation fund;
(e)	an investment in an approved deposit fund;
(g)	an investment in an ATO small superannuation account;
(h)	an asset-tested income stream (lifetime) that does not arise under arrangements that are regulated by the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993.
Note 1:	For paragraph (d), see paragraph (1C)(a) for superannuation investments held before pension age is reached.
Note 2:	For paragraph (e), see paragraph (1C)(b) for investments in approved deposit funds held before pension age is reached.
Note 4:	For paragraph (g), see paragraph (1C)(ca) for investments in ATO small superannuation accounts held before pension age is reached.
Note 5:	For paragraph (h), see paragraph (1C)(j) for a person’s asset-tested income stream (lifetime) that does not arise under arrangements that are regulated by the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 if the person’s assessment day (within the meaning of section 52BAB) for the income stream has occurred.
(1C)	The following are not managed investments for the purposes of this Act:
(a)	an investment in a superannuation fund if the investor has not yet turned pension age;
(b)	an investment in an approved deposit fund if the investor has not yet turned pension age;
(ca)	an investment in an ATO small superannuation account if the investor has not yet turned pension age;
(d)	deposit money;
(e)	a loan;
(f)	an asset-test exempt income stream;
(g)	an asset-tested income stream (long term);
(h)	an asset-tested income stream (short term);
(i)	a person’s asset-tested income stream (lifetime) that arises under arrangements that are regulated by the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993;
(j)	a person’s asset-tested income stream (lifetime) that does not arise under arrangements that are regulated by the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 if the person’s assessment day (within the meaning of section 52BAB) for the income stream has occurred.
Note 1:	For pension age see subsection (1D) and sections 5QA and 5QB.
Note 2:	For deposit money see subsection 5H(1).
Note 3:	For provisions relating to when a loan is taken to be made see subsection (2).
(1D)	For the purposes of the application of subsection (1C) in relation to income support supplement, the references in paragraphs (1C)(a), (b) and (c) to pension age are taken to be references to the qualifying age.
Note:	For qualifying age see section 5Q.
(1E)	An income stream is a defined benefit income stream if:
(a)	under the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations 1994, the income stream is taken to be a pension for the purposes of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993; and
(b)	except in the case of an income stream arising under a superannuation fund established before 20 September 1998—the income stream is provided under rules that meet the standards of subregulation 1.06(2) of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations 1994; and
(ba)	in the case of an income stream arising under a superannuation fund established before 20 September 1998—the income stream is provided under rules that meet the standards determined, by legislative instrument, by the Minister; and
(c)	in any case—the income stream is attributable to a defined benefit interest within the meaning of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations 1994 (for this purpose, disregard subparagraph 1.03AA(1)(b)(ii) of those regulations).
(1EA)	An income stream is a military invalidity pension income stream if:
(a)	the income stream is:
(i)	invalidity pay within the meaning of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1973; or
(ii)	an invalidity pension under the superannuation scheme established under the Military Superannuation and Benefits Act 1991; or
(iii)	an income stream provided under a superannuation scheme and that is covered by an instrument under subsection (1FA); and
(b)	the income stream is not a defined benefit income stream.
(1F)	The Commission may determine, by legislative instrument, guidelines to be complied with when designating an income stream for the purposes of the definition of income stream in subsection (1).
(1FA)	For the purposes of subparagraph (1EA)(a)(iii), the Commission may, by legislative instrument, do any one or more of the following:
(a)	specify an income stream;
(b)	describe an income stream;
(c)	determine requirements relating to an income stream;
regardless of whether the income stream relates to military service or invalidity.
(1FB)	Without limiting subsection 33(3A) of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901, an instrument under subsection (1FA) may make different provision in relation to:
(a)	different kinds of income streams; and
(b)	different kinds of circumstances.
Note:	For specification by class, see subsection 13(3) of the Legislation Act 2003.
(1G)	The Minister may, by legislative instrument, determine requirements for the purposes of paragraph (j) of the definition of financial investment in subsection (1).
(2)	The following rules apply for the purposes of this Act:
(a)	the acquisition by a person of debentures, bonds or other securities is treated as the making of a loan by the person;
(b)	a person is not treated as having made a loan merely because:
(i)	the person has an account with a financial institution; or
(ii)	the person has paid an entry contribution.
Note:	For entry contribution see section 52M.
(2A)	Subsection (2) does not limit the meaning of the word loan in this Act.
(2B)	For the purposes of this Act, an asset is a deprived asset if:
(a)	a person has disposed of the asset; and
(b)	the value of the asset is included in the value of the person’s assets by Subdivision BA or BB of Division 11 of Part IIIB.
Note:	For circumstances in which a person is taken to dispose of assets see section 52E.
(2C)	To avoid doubt, none of the following is a financial investment for the purposes of this Act:
(a)	an accommodation bond;
(b)	an accommodation bond balance;
(c)	a refundable deposit;
(d)	a refundable deposit balance.
Note:	These expressions are defined in section 5L.
(6)	For the purposes of this Act, a person has an investment in a superannuation fund or approved deposit fund if the person has benefits in the fund (whether the benefits are attributable to amounts paid by the person or someone else).
(6A)	For the purposes of this Act:
(a)	a person has an investment in an ATO small superannuation account if:
(i)	the account is kept in the name of the person; and
(ii)	the balance of the account exceeds nil; and
(b)	the amount or value of that investment equals the balance of the account.
(9)	To avoid doubt, for the purposes of this Act, an account-based income stream does not have a residual capital value.
5JA Meaning of asset-test exempt income stream—lifetime income streams
General requirements
(1)	An income stream provided to a person is an asset-test exempt income stream for the purposes of this Act if:
(aa)	subject to subsection (1AA), the income stream’s commencement day happens before 20 September 2007; and
(a)	it is an income stream arising under a contract, or governing rules, that meet the requirements of subsection (2) and the Commission has not made a determination under subsection (4) in respect of the income stream; and
(b)	subject to subsections (1B), (1C) and (1D), the Commission is satisfied that in relation to an income stream, provided by a class of provider specified by the Commission for the purposes of this paragraph, there is in force a current actuarial certificate that states that the actuary is of the opinion that, for the financial year in which the certificate is given, there is a high probability that the provider of the income stream will be able to pay the income stream as required under the contract or governing rules; and
(c)	the Commission is satisfied that the requirements of subsection (2) are being given effect to from the commencement day of the income stream.
Note:	For paragraph (b), financial year means a period of 12 months commencing on 1 July: see the Acts Interpretation Act 1901.
Determination under subsection (5)
(1A)	An income stream provided to a person is an asset-test exempt income stream for the purposes of this Act if the Commission has made a determination under subsection (5) in respect of the income stream.
Defined benefit income streams
(1AA)	Paragraph (1)(aa) does not apply if the income stream is a defined benefit income stream.
Guidelines relating to actuarial certificates
(1B)	The Commission may determine, by legislative instrument, guidelines to be complied with when determining whether an actuarial certificate is in force.
Exception to paragraph (1)(b)
(1C)	If, on 30 June in a financial year, an actuarial certificate referred to in paragraph (1)(b) is in force in relation to an income stream, then paragraph (1)(b) does not apply in relation to the next financial year (the later year) for the period:
(a)	beginning on 1 July of the later year; and
(b)	ending at the earlier of the following:
(i)	the start of the first day in the later year on which any actuarial certificate is given to the Commission in relation to that income stream;
(ii)	the end of the period of 26 weeks beginning on 1 July of the later year.
One certificate a financial year
(1D)	For the purposes of paragraph (1)(b), if an actuarial certificate is given to the Commission in a financial year in relation to an income stream, then any actuarial certificate given to the Commission later in that financial year in relation to that income stream has no effect.
Requirements of contract/governing rules for provision of income stream
(2)	A contract, or the governing rules, for the provision of an income stream to a person meet the requirements of this subsection if the contract or governing rules specify:
(a)	that payments under the income stream are to be made at least annually throughout the life of the person and, if there is a reversionary beneficiary:
(i)	throughout the reversionary beneficiary’s life; or
(ii)	if the reversionary beneficiary is a child of the person or of a former reversionary beneficiary under the income stream—at least until he or she turns 16; or
(iii)	if the child referred to in subparagraph (ii) is a full-time student who has turned 16—at least until the end of his or her full-time studies or until he or she turns 25, whichever occurs sooner; and
(b)	the total amount of the payments that may be made under the income stream in the first year after the commencement day of the income stream (not taking commuted amounts into account); and
(c)	that the total amount of the payments that may be made under the income stream in any other year (not taking commuted amounts into account) may not fall below the total amount of the payments made under the income stream in the immediately preceding year (the previous total), and may not exceed the previous total:
(i)	if subparagraph (ii) does not apply—by more than 5% of the previous total; or
(ii)	if the index number for the second last quarter before the day on which the first of those payments is to be made (recent index number) exceeds the index number for the same quarter in the immediately preceding year (base index number) by more than 4% of the base index number—by more than such percentage of the previous total as is worked out under the formula:
(d)	if the income stream is purchased by or for the primary beneficiary—that the first payment under the income stream relates to the period commencing on the day of that purchase; and
(e)	if the income stream is not purchased, but acquired, by or for the primary beneficiary—that the first payment under the income stream relates to the period commencing on the day of that acquisition; and
(f)	if the income stream is not a defined benefit income stream—that the amount paid as the purchase price for the income stream is wholly converted into income; and
(g)	that the income stream has no residual capital value; and
(h)	that the income stream cannot be commuted except:
(i)	if the income stream is a non-commutation funded income stream and the commutation is made within 6 months after the commencement day of the income stream; or
(ii)	if the commutation is made to the benefit of a reversionary beneficiary or of the person’s estate, on the death of the person within the life expectancy period for the income stream; or
(iii)	if the payment resulting from the commutation is transferred directly to the purchase of another income stream that is an asset-test exempt income stream; or
(iv)	to the extent necessary to cover any superannuation contributions surcharge relating to the income stream; or
(iva)	to the extent necessary to give effect to an entitlement of the person’s partner or former partner under a payment split under Part VIIIB or VIIIC of the Family Law Act 1975; or
(ivb)	to the extent necessary to give effect to an order under Part VIIIAA of the Family Law Act 1975; or
(v)	to the extent necessary to pay a hardship amount; and
(i)	that the income stream cannot be transferred to a person except:
(i)	on the death of the primary beneficiary, to a reversionary beneficiary; or
(ii)	on the death of a reversionary beneficiary, to another reversionary beneficiary; and
(j)	that neither the capital value of the income stream, nor the income from it, can be used as security for a borrowing; and
(k)	that, if the income stream reverts, it must not have a reversionary component greater than the benefit that was payable immediately before the reversion; and
(l)	that, if the income stream is commuted, the commuted amount must not be greater than the benefit that was payable immediately before the commutation.
Note:	For paragraph (h), hardship amount, life expectancy period and non-commutation funded income stream are defined in subsection (7) and asset-test exempt income stream is defined in section 5J.
(2A)	A contract, or the governing rules, for the provision to a person of an income stream that meets all of the requirements of subsection (2), except the requirement of paragraph (2)(c), are taken to meet the requirements of subsection (2) if the contract or governing rules specify that any provision included in the contract or governing rules in accordance with paragraph (2)(c) does not apply in any year in which:
(a)	the person ceases to receive income under an income stream jointly and begins to receive income under a single income stream; and
(b)	the total amount received in the year under the single income stream is less than the total amount received by the person in the previous year but is not nil.
Matters not required of income stream
(3)	For the purpose of determining whether an income stream meets the requirements of subsection (2), it is immaterial that:
(a)	if the primary beneficiary dies within the life expectancy period for the income stream, a surviving reversionary beneficiary may be paid an amount equal to the total of the payments that the primary beneficiary would (if he or she had not died) have received from the day of the death until the end of that period; and
(b)	if:
(i)	the primary beneficiary dies within the life expectancy period for the income stream; and
(ii)	there is no surviving reversionary beneficiary;
an amount, not exceeding the difference between:
(iii)	the sum of the amounts that would have been so payable to the primary beneficiary in that period; and
(iv)	the sum of the amounts paid to the primary beneficiary;
is payable to the primary beneficiary’s estate, and
(c)	if:
(i)	the primary beneficiary dies within the life expectancy period for the income stream; and
(ii)	there is a surviving reversionary beneficiary who also dies within that period;
there is payable to the reversionary beneficiary’s estate an amount determined as described in paragraph (b) as if that paragraph applied to the reversionary beneficiary.
Determination that income stream not asset-test exempt
(4)	The Commission may determine that an income stream that meets the requirements of subsection (2) is not an asset-test exempt income stream if the Commission is satisfied that the person who has purchased the income stream has commuted an asset-test exempt income stream within 6 months after its commencement day on at least 3 occasions since the person first received a service pension, income support supplement, a veteran payment or a social security payment.
Determination that income stream is asset-test exempt
(5)	The Commission may determine, in writing, that an income stream is an asset-test exempt income stream for the purposes of this Act. In making the determination, the Commission is to have regard to the guidelines (if any) determined under subsection (6).
(5A)	To avoid doubt, a determination under subsection (5) may be made in respect of an income stream regardless of the income stream’s commencement day.
(5B)	A determination under subsection (5) is not a legislative instrument.
Guidelines to be complied with in making determination
(6)	The Commission may determine, by legislative instrument, guidelines to be complied with when making a determination under subsection (5).
Definitions
(7)	In this section:
hardship amount, in relation to a person, means an amount determined by the Commission for the purposes of this definition if:
(a)	the person applies in writing to the Commission to be allowed to commute the whole or part of an income stream because of extreme financial hardship; and
(b)	the Commission is satisfied that:
(i)	the person’s circumstances are exceptional and could not be reasonably foreseen at the time the person purchased the income stream; and
(ii)	the person has insufficient liquid assets or other assets (excluding the person’s principal home) that could be realised to avoid the extreme financial hardship; and
(iii)	that amount is required to meet unavoidable expenditure.
life expectancy period, for an income stream, means:
(a)	in a case where:
(i)	there was only one primary beneficiary on the commencement day; and
(ii)	the primary beneficiary has decided not to round up his or her life expectancy for the purposes of this definition;
the period starting on the income stream’s commencement day, and equal to the shorter of:
(iii)	the primary beneficiary’s life expectancy on the commencement day; and
(iv)	20 years; or
(b)	in a case where:
(i)	there was only one primary beneficiary on the commencement day; and
(ii)	paragraph (a) does not apply;
the period starting on the income stream’s commencement day, and equal to the shorter of:
(iii)	the primary beneficiary’s life expectancy (rounded up, if not consisting of a whole number of years, to the next whole number) on the commencement day; and
(iv)	20 years; or
(c)	in a case where:
(i)	there were 2 primary beneficiaries on the commencement day; and
(ii)	those primary beneficiaries have decided not to round up their life expectancies for the purposes of this definition;
the period starting on the income stream’s commencement day, and equal to the shorter of:
(iii)	the greater of the life expectancies, on the commencement day, of the primary beneficiaries; and
(iv)	20 years; or
(d)	in a case where:
(i)	there were 2 primary beneficiaries on the commencement day; and
(ii)	paragraph (c) does not apply;
the period starting on the income stream’s commencement day, and equal to the shorter of:
(iii)	the greater of the life expectancies (rounded up, if not consisting of a whole number of years, to the next whole number), on the commencement day, of the primary beneficiaries; and
(iv)	20 years.
liquid assets, in relation to a person, means the person’s cash and readily realisable assets, and includes:
(a)	the person’s shares and debentures in a public company within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001; and
(b)	managed investments; and
(c)	insurance policies that can be surrendered for money; and
(d)	amounts deposited with, or lent to, a bank or other financial institution by the person (whether or not the amount can be withdrawn or repaid immediately); and
(e)	amounts due, and able to be paid, to the person by, or on behalf of, a former employer of the person;
but does not include the sum of NDIS amounts paid to the person and any return on those amounts that the person earns, derives or receives, less the sum of amounts spent by the person in accordance with an NDIS plan under which the amounts were paid.
non-commutation funded income stream means an income stream that has not been purchased by transferring directly to the purchase of the income stream a payment resulting from the commutation of another asset-test exempt income stream.
unavoidable expenditure, in relation to a person, means one or more of the following:
(a)	essential medical expenses of the person, or the person’s partner, to the extent that the expenses are not covered by health insurance or other contracts or arrangements;
(b)	the cost of:
(i)	replacing the person’s principal home; or
(ii)	essential repairs to the person’s principal home;
to the extent that the cost of the replacement or repairs is not covered by an insurance policy;
(c)	expenditure to buy replacement essential household goods because of the loss of those goods to the extent that the cost of replacement is not covered by an insurance policy.
5JB Meaning of asset-test exempt income stream—life expectancy income streams
(1)	An income stream provided to a person is also an asset-test exempt income stream for the purposes of this Act if:
(a)	the following criteria are satisfied:
(i)	the income stream’s commencement day happens before 20 September 2007;
(ii)	subsection (1A) applies; or
(b)	subsection (1B) applies.
No determination under subsection (3)
(1A)	This subsection applies if:
(aa)	the person to whom the income stream is being provided is:
(i)	the primary beneficiary; or
(ii)	the primary beneficiary’s reversionary partner (if any) on the day of the primary beneficiary’s death; and
(a)	the income stream is an income stream arising under a contract, or governing rules, that meet the requirements of subsection (2) and the Commission has not made a determination under subsection (3) in respect of the income stream; and
(b)	subject to subsections (1C), (1D) and (1E), the Commission is satisfied that, in relation to an income stream provided by a class of provider specified by the Commission for the purposes of this paragraph, there is in force a current actuarial certificate that states that the actuary is of the opinion that, for the financial year in which the certificate is given, there is a high probability that the provider of the income stream will be able to pay the income stream as required under the contract or governing rules; and
(c)	the Commission is satisfied that the requirements of subsection (2) have been given effect to from the commencement day of the income stream; and
(d)	in the case of an income stream acquired before 20 September 2004 that is provided to a primary beneficiary’s reversionary beneficiary—the remaining term (in years) of the income stream is equal to the life expectancy (in years) of the primary beneficiary’s reversionary beneficiary.
Note 1:	For paragraph (aa), reversionary partner is defined in subsection (7).
Note 2:	For paragraph (b), financial year means a period of 12 months commencing on 1 July: see the Acts Interpretation Act 1901.
Determination under subsection (4)
(1B)	This subsection applies if the Commission has made a determination under subsection (4) in respect of the income stream.
Guidelines relating to actuarial certificates
(1C)	The Commission may determine, by legislative instrument, guidelines to be complied with when determining whether an actuarial certificate is in force.
Exception to paragraph (1A)(b)
(1D)	If, on 30 June in a financial year, an actuarial certificate referred to in paragraph (1A)(b) is in force in relation to an income stream, then paragraph (1A)(b) does not apply in relation to the next financial year (the later year) for the period:
(a)	beginning on 1 July of the later year; and
(b)	ending at the earlier of the following:
(i)	the start of the first day in the later year on which any actuarial certificate is given to the Commission in relation to that income stream;
(ii)	the end of the period of 26 weeks beginning on 1 July of the later year.
One certificate a financial year
(1E)	For the purposes of paragraph (1A)(b), if an actuarial certificate is given to the Commission in a financial year in relation to an income stream, then any actuarial certificate given to the Commission later in that financial year in relation to that income stream has no effect.
Requirements of contract/governing rules for provision of income stream
(2)	A contract, or the governing rules, for the provision of an income stream to a person meets the requirements of this subsection if the contract or governing rules specify:
(a)	the income stream’s term, which must comply with subsection (2B), (2C) or (2E); and
(aa)	that payments under the income stream are to be made at least annually during the income stream’s term; and
(b)	the total amount of the payments that may be made under the income stream in the first year after the commencement day of the income stream (not taking commuted amounts into account); and
(c)	that the total amount of the payments that may be made under the income stream in any other year (not taking commuted amounts into account) may not fall below the total amount of the payments made under the income stream in the immediately preceding year (the previous total), and may not exceed the previous total:
(i)	if subparagraph (ii) does not apply—by more than 5% of the previous total; or
(ii)	if the index number for the second last quarter before the day on which the first of those payments is to be made (recent index number) exceeds the index number for the same quarter in the immediately preceding year (base index number) by more than 4% of the base index number—by more than such percentage of the previous total as is worked out under the formula:
(d)	if the income stream is purchased by or for the primary beneficiary—that the first payment under the income stream relates to the period commencing on the day of that purchase; and
(e)	if the income stream is not purchased, but acquired, by or for the primary beneficiary—that the first payment under the income stream relates to the period commencing on the day of that acquisition; and
(f)	if the income stream is not a defined benefit income stream—that the amount paid as the purchase price for the income stream is wholly converted into income; and
(g)	that the income stream has no residual capital value; and
(h)	that the income stream cannot be commuted except:
(i)	if the income stream is a non-commutation funded income stream and the commutation is made within 6 months after the commencement day of the income stream; or
(ii)	if the payment resulting from the commutation is transferred directly to the purchase of another income stream that is an asset-test exempt income stream; or
(iii)	if the primary beneficiary’s reversionary partner (if any) on the day of the primary beneficiary’s death survives the primary beneficiary—on or after the partner’s death; or
(iv)	if subparagraph (iii) does not apply—on or after the primary beneficiary’s death; or
(ivaa)	to the extent necessary to cover any superannuation contributions surcharge relating to the income stream; or
(iva)	to the extent necessary to give effect to an entitlement of the person’s partner or former partner under a payment split under Part VIIIB of the Family Law Act 1975; or
(ivb)	to the extent necessary to give effect to an order under Part VIIIAA of the Family Law Act 1975; or
(ivc)	to the extent necessary in order to comply with section 136-80 in Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953; or
(vi)	to the extent necessary to pay a hardship amount; and
(i)	that the income stream cannot be transferred except on death; and
(j)	that neither the capital value of the income stream, nor the income from it, can be used as security for a borrowing; and
(k)	that, if the income stream reverts, it must not have a reversionary component greater than the benefit that was payable immediately before the reversion; and
(l)	that, if the income stream is commuted, the commuted amount must not be greater than the benefit that was payable immediately before the commutation.
Note:	For paragraph (h), hardship amount, non-commutation funded income stream and reversionary partner are defined in subsection (7) and asset-test exempt income stream is defined in section 5J.
Compliance with subsection (2) if certain conditions are met
(2A)	A contract, or the governing rules, for the provision to a person of an income stream that meets all of the requirements of subsection (2), except the requirement of paragraph (2)(c), are taken to meet the requirements of subsection (2) if the contract or governing rules specify that any provision included in the contract or governing rules in accordance with paragraph (2)(c) does not apply in any year in which:
(a)	the person ceases to receive income under an income stream jointly and begins to receive income under a single income stream; and
(b)	the total amount received in the year under the single income stream is less than the total amount received by the person in the previous year but is not nil.
Term of the income stream
(2B)	If, on an income stream’s commencement day, there is only one primary beneficiary, the income stream’s term complies with this subsection if it is a period of whole years that:
(a)	starts on the income stream’s commencement day; and
(b)	is at least as long as the primary beneficiary’s life expectancy (rounded up, if not consisting of a whole number of years, to the next whole number) on the commencement day; and
(c)	is at most as long as the greater of:
(i)	what would be the primary beneficiary’s life expectancy (rounded up, if not consisting of a whole number of years, to the next whole number) on the commencement day if the primary beneficiary were 5 years younger; and
(ii)	the period (rounded up, if not consisting of a whole number of years, to the next whole number) starting on the commencement day and ending on the day on which the primary beneficiary reaches age 100 (assuming that the primary beneficiary lives until then).
(2C)	If, on an income stream’s commencement day, there is only one primary beneficiary, the income stream’s term complies with this subsection if it is a period of whole years that:
(a)	starts on the income stream’s commencement day; and
(b)	is at least as long as the greater of the life expectancies (rounded up, if not consisting of a whole number of years, to the next whole number), on the commencement day, of:
(i)	the primary beneficiary; and
(ii)	the primary beneficiary’s reversionary partner on that day; and
(c)	is at most as long as the period worked out under subsection (2D).
(2D)	For the purposes of paragraph (2C)(c), the period is the greater of:
(a)	the greater of what would be the life expectancies (rounded up, if not consisting of a whole number of years, to the next whole number), on the commencement day, of:
(i)	the primary beneficiary, if the primary beneficiary were 5 years younger; and
(ii)	the primary beneficiary’s reversionary partner on that day, if the partner were 5 years younger; and
(b)	the greater of:
(i)	the period (rounded up, if not consisting of a whole number of years, to the next whole number) starting on the commencement day and ending on the day on which the primary beneficiary reaches age 100 (assuming that the primary beneficiary lives until then); and
(ii)	the period (rounded up, if not consisting of a whole number of years, to the next whole number) starting on the commencement day and ending on the day on which the primary beneficiary’s reversionary partner on the commencement day reaches age 100 (assuming that the partner lives until then).
(2E)	If, on an income stream’s commencement day, there are 2 primary beneficiaries (the first primary beneficiary and the second primary beneficiary), the income stream’s term complies with this subsection if it is a period of whole years that:
(a)	starts on the income stream’s commencement day; and
(b)	is at least as long as the lesser of the life expectancies (rounded up, if not consisting of a whole number of years, to the next whole number), on the commencement day, of:
(i)	the first primary beneficiary; and
(ii)	the second primary beneficiary; and
(c)	is at most as long as the period worked out under subsection (2F).
(2F)	For the purposes of paragraph (2E)(c), the period is the greater of:
(a)	the greater of what would be the life expectancies (rounded up, if not consisting of a whole number of years, to the next whole number), on the commencement day, of:
(i)	the first primary beneficiary, if the first primary beneficiary were 5 years younger; and
(ii)	the second primary beneficiary, if the second primary beneficiary were 5 years younger; and
(b)	the greater of:
(i)	the period (rounded up, if not consisting of a whole number of years, to the next whole number) starting on the commencement day and ending on the day on which the first primary beneficiary reaches age 100 (assuming that the first primary beneficiary lives until then); and
(ii)	the period (rounded up, if not consisting of a whole number of years, to the next whole number) starting on the commencement day and ending on the day on which the second primary beneficiary reaches age 100 (assuming that the second primary beneficiary lives until then).
Determination that income stream not asset-test exempt
(3)	The Commission may determine that an income stream that meets the requirements of subsection (2) is not an asset-test exempt income stream if the Commission is satisfied that the person who has purchased the income stream has commuted an asset-test exempt income stream within 6 months after its commencement day on at least 3 occasions since the person first received a service pension, income support supplement, a veteran payment or a social security payment.
Determination that income stream is asset-test exempt
(4)	The Commission may determine, in writing, that an income stream is an asset-test exempt income stream for the purposes of this Act. In making the determination, the Commission is to have regard to the guidelines (if any) determined under subsection (5).
(4A)	To avoid doubt, a determination under subsection (4) may be made in respect of an income stream regardless of the income stream’s commencement day.
(4B)	A determination under subsection (4) is not a legislative instrument.
Guidelines to be complied with in making determination
(5)	The Commission may determine, by legislative instrument, guidelines to be complied with when making a determination under subsection (4).
Interpretation
(7)	In this section:
hardship amount has the same meaning as in section 5JA (see subsection 5JA(7).
non-commutation funded income stream means an income stream that has not been purchased by transferring directly to the purchase of the income stream a payment resulting from the commutation of another asset-test exempt income stream.
reversionary partner, in relation to the primary beneficiary of an income stream and a particular day, means another person who, on that day:
(a)	is a member of a couple with the primary beneficiary; and
(b)	is the person to whom the income stream will revert on the primary beneficiary’s death.
Note:	For paragraph (a), member of a couple is defined in section 5E.
5JBA Meaning of asset-test exempt income stream—market-linked income streams
General requirements
(1)	An income stream provided to a person is also an asset-test exempt income stream for the purposes of this Act if:
(a)	all of the following criteria are satisfied:
(i)	the income stream’s commencement day happens during the period from 20 September 2004 to 19 September 2007 (both dates inclusive);
(ii)	the person to whom the income stream is being provided is the primary beneficiary or the primary beneficiary’s reversionary partner (if any) on the day of the primary beneficiary’s death;
(iii)	the income stream is an income stream arising under a contract, or governing rules, that meets the requirements of subsection (2);
(iv)	the Commission has not made a determination under subsection (10) in respect of the income stream;
(v)	the Commission is satisfied that the requirements of subsection (2) have been given effect to from the day the income stream commenced to be paid; or
(b)	the Commission has made a determination under subsection (11) in respect of the income stream.
Note:	For paragraph (a), reversionary partner is defined in subsection (14).
Requirements of contract/governing rules for provision of income stream
(2)	A contract, or the governing rules, for the provision of an income stream to a person meets the requirements of this subsection if the contract or governing rules specify:
(a)	the income stream’s term, which must comply with subsection (3) or (4); and
(b)	obligations for the making of payments under the income stream that satisfy the requirements of subsections (5) to (9); and
(c)	if the income stream is purchased by or for the primary beneficiary—that the first payment under the income stream relates to the period commencing on the day of that purchase; and
(d)	if the income stream is not purchased, but acquired, by or for the primary beneficiary—that the first payment under the income stream relates to the period commencing on the day of that acquisition; and
(e)	that the income stream has no residual capital value; and
(f)	that the income stream cannot be commuted except:
(i)	if the income stream is a non-commutation funded income stream and the commutation is made within 6 months after the commencement day of the income stream; or
(ii)	if the payment resulting from the commutation is transferred directly to the purchase of another income stream that is an asset-test exempt income stream; or
(iii)	if the primary beneficiary’s reversionary partner (if any) on the day of the primary beneficiary’s death survives the primary beneficiary—on or after the partner’s death; or
(iv)	if subparagraph (iii) does not apply—on or after the primary beneficiary’s death; or
(v)	to the extent necessary to cover any superannuation contributions surcharge relating to the income stream; or
(vi)	to the extent necessary to give effect to an entitlement of the person’s partner or former partner under a payment split under Part VIIIB of the Family Law Act 1975; or
(via)	to the extent necessary in order to comply with section 136-80 in Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953; or
(vii)	to the extent necessary to pay a hardship amount; and
(g)	that the income stream cannot be transferred except on death; and
(h)	that neither the capital value of the income stream, nor the income from it, can be used as security for a borrowing; and
(i)	that, if the income stream reverts, it must not have a reversionary component greater than the account balance immediately before the reversion; and
(j)	that, if the income stream is commuted, the commuted amount must not be greater than the account balance immediately before the commutation.
Note:	For paragraph (f), hardship amount, non-commutation funded income stream and reversionary partner are defined in subsection (14) and asset-test exempt income stream is defined in section 5J.
Term of the income stream
(3)	An income stream’s term complies with this subsection if it is a period of whole years that:
(a)	starts on the income stream’s commencement day; and
(b)	is at least as long as the primary beneficiary’s life expectancy (rounded up, if not consisting of a whole number of years, to the next whole number) on the commencement day; and
(c)	is at most as long as the greater of:
(i)	what would be the primary beneficiary’s life expectancy (rounded up, if not consisting of a whole number of years, to the next whole number) on the commencement day if the primary beneficiary were 5 years younger; and
(ii)	the period (rounded up, if not consisting of a whole number of years, to the next whole number) starting on the commencement day and ending on the day on which the primary beneficiary reaches age 100 (assuming that the primary beneficiary lives until then).
(4)	An income stream’s term complies with this subsection if it is a period of whole years that:
(a)	starts on the income stream’s commencement day; and
(b)	is at least as long as the greater of the life expectancies (rounded up, if not consisting of a whole number of years, to the next whole number), on the commencement day, of:
(i)	the primary beneficiary; and
(ii)	the primary beneficiary’s reversionary partner on that day; and
(c)	is at most as long as the period worked out under subsection (4A).
(4A)	For the purposes of paragraph (4)(c), the period is the greater of:
(a)	the greater of what would be the life expectancies (rounded up, if not consisting of a whole number of years, to the next whole number), on the commencement day, of:
(i)	the primary beneficiary, if the primary beneficiary were 5 years younger; and
(ii)	the primary beneficiary’s reversionary partner on that day, if the partner were 5 years younger; and
(b)	the greater of:
(i)	the period (rounded up, if not consisting of a whole number of years, to the next whole number) starting on the commencement day and ending on the day on which the primary beneficiary reaches age 100 (assuming that the primary beneficiary lives until then); and
(ii)	the period (rounded up, if not consisting of a whole number of years, to the next whole number) starting on the commencement day and ending on the day on which the primary beneficiary’s reversionary partner on the commencement day reaches age 100 (assuming that the partner lives until then).
Total amount payable in each financial year—general rule
(5)	For each financial year wholly or partly within the income stream’s term, the total amount of the payments to be made under the income stream must not be less than 90%, nor greater than 110%, of the amount worked out under the formula:
where:
account balance means:
(a)	if the financial year includes the income stream’s commencement day—the opening account balance for the income stream; or
(b)	otherwise—the account balance for the income stream at the start of the financial year.
PF means the payment factor for the income stream for the financial year, worked out under principles determined by the Commission under subsection (5A).
(5A)	The Commission must, by legislative instrument, determine principles for the purposes of the definition of PF in subsection (5).
Other rules about payments under the income stream
(6)	If the income stream’s commencement day is not a 1 July, a total amount worked out under subsection (5) for the financial year starting on the preceding 1 July must be reduced on a pro-rata basis by reference to the number of days in the financial year that are on and after the commencement day.
(7)	If:
(a)	the income stream’s commencement day happens in June; and
(b)	no payment is made under the income stream for the financial year in which the commencement day happens;
subsections (5) and (6) do not apply to the income stream for that financial year.
(8)	If the amount (the test amount) of a payment to be made under the income stream on a day in a financial year:
(a)	is worked out by reference to a total amount worked out under subsection (5) (and subsection (6), if applicable) for the financial year; and
(b)	exceeds the income stream’s account balance on that day;
then:
(c)	the account balance (if any) must be paid instead of the test amount; and
(d)	that total amount described in paragraph (a) must be reduced by the amount of the excess.
(9)	If the income stream has a positive account balance at the end of its term, a payment equal to that account balance must be made within 28 days after the end of the term.
Determination that income stream not asset-test exempt
(10)	The Commission may determine that an income stream that meets the requirements of subsection (2) is not an asset-test exempt income stream if the Commission is satisfied that:
(a)	the primary beneficiary has commuted an asset-test exempt income stream on at least 3 occasions since the person first received a service pension, income support supplement, a veteran payment or a social security payment; and
(b)	on at least 3 of those occasions, the commutation happened within 6 months after the commencement day of the income stream concerned.
Determination that income stream is asset-test exempt
(11)	The Commission may determine, in writing, that an income stream is an asset-test exempt income stream for the purposes of this Act. In making the determination, the Commission must have regard to the guidelines (if any) determined under subsection (12).
(11A)	To avoid doubt, a determination under subsection (11) may be made in respect of an income stream regardless of the income stream’s commencement day.
(11B)	A determination under subsection (11) is not a legislative instrument.
Guidelines to be complied with in making determination
(12)	The Commission may determine, by legislative instrument, guidelines to be complied with when making a determination under subsection (11).
Definitions
(14)	In this section:
hardship amount has the same meaning as in section 5JA (see subsection 5JA(7)).
non-commutation funded income stream means an income stream that has not been purchased by transferring directly to the purchase of the income stream a payment resulting from the commutation of another asset-test exempt income stream.
reversionary partner, in relation to the primary beneficiary of an income stream and a particular day, means another person who, on that day:
(a)	is a member of a couple with the primary beneficiary; and
(b)	is the person to whom the income stream will revert on the primary beneficiary’s death.
Note:	For paragraph (a), member of a couple is defined in section 5E.
5JBB Meaning of asset-test exempt income stream—military invalidity pension income stream
An income stream provided to a person is an asset-test exempt income stream for the purposes of this Act if the income stream is a military invalidity pension income stream.
5JC Family law affected income streams
If:
(a)	an income stream is acquired or purchased (the original family law affected income stream) by a person (the member); and
(b)	the member’s partner or former partner (the non-member) becomes entitled to be paid some or all of that income stream under:
(i)	a payment split under Part VIIIB of the Family Law Act 1975; or
(ii)	an order under Part VIIIAA of the Family Law Act 1975;
then so much (if any) of the income stream paid to the non-member as a series of ongoing payments (secondary FLA income stream) and the remainder (if any) of the income stream paid to the member as such a series of payments (primary FLA income stream) are each family law affected income streams.
5JD Asset-tested status of secondary FLA income streams
If there is a primary FLA income stream
(1)	If a primary FLA income stream is, or would be if the income stream were assessed for the purposes of this Act:
(a)	an asset-tested income stream (long term); or
(b)	an asset-tested income stream (short term); or
(c)	an asset-tested income stream (lifetime);
then the secondary FLA income stream to which it is related is also to be treated as if it were assessed as an income stream of that kind.
If there is no primary FLA income stream
(2)	If:
(a)	there is no primary FLA income stream in relation to a secondary FLA income stream; and
(b)	had there been a primary FLA income stream in relation to that secondary FLA income stream it would have been assessed for the purposes of this Act as an asset-tested income stream (long term), an asset-tested income stream (short term) or an asset-tested income stream (lifetime);
then the secondary FLA income stream is to be treated as if it were assessed as an income stream of that kind.
5JE Asset-tested income stream (lifetime)
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), an income stream is an asset-tested income stream (lifetime) if:
(a)	the contract, or governing rules, for the provision of the income stream ensure that, once payments of the income stream start, the income stream is to continue for the remainder of the life of one or more individuals; and
(b)	the contract, or governing rules, for the provision of the income stream ensure that the amounts of those payments are determined by having regard to the age, life expectancy or other factors relevant to the mortality of those individuals; and
(c)	the income stream is not an asset-test exempt income stream; and
(d)	the income stream is not a defined benefit income stream.
(2)	If:
(a)	paragraphs (1)(a) to (d) are satisfied in relation to an income stream; and
(b)	the income stream is of a kind determined in an instrument under subsection (3);
the income stream is an asset-tested income stream (lifetime) only to the extent determined in the instrument.
(3)	The Commission may make a legislative instrument for the purposes of subsection (2).
(4)	An income stream is an asset-tested income stream (lifetime) if:
(a)	the income stream satisfies the conditions determined in an instrument under subsection (5); and
(b)	the income stream is not an asset-test exempt income stream; and
(c)	the income stream is not a defined benefit income stream.
(5)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, determine conditions for the purposes of paragraph (4)(a).
5K Maintenance income definitions
In this Act, the expressions disability expenses maintenance, maintenance and maintenance income have the same respective meanings as in the Family Assistance Act.
5L Assets test definitions
(1)	In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
accommodation bond has the same meaning as in the Aged Care Act 2024.
accommodation bond balance has the same meaning as in the Aged Care Act 2024.
accommodation charge has the same meaning as in the Aged Care Act 2024.
asset means property or money (including property or money outside Australia).
Note:	However, certain property or money is to be disregarded when calculating the value of a person’s assets for certain purposes (for example, see subsection 52(1)).
daily accommodation contribution has the same meaning as in the Aged Care Act 2024.
daily accommodation payment has the same meaning as in the Aged Care Act 2024.
dispose of assets has the meaning given by section 52E.
family member, in relation to a person, means:
(a)	the partner or a parent of the person; or
(b)	a sister, brother or child of the person; or
(c)	another person who, in the Commission’s opinion, should be treated for the purposes of this definition as one of the person’s relations described in paragraph (a) or (b).
fishing operations means:
(a)	operations relating directly to the taking or catching of fish, turtles, crustacea, oysters or other shellfish; or
(b)	oyster farming; or
(c)	pearling operations;
but does not include:
(d)	whaling; or
(e)	operations conducted otherwise than for the purposes of a business.
foreign superannuation fund has the same meaning as in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
foreign superannuation pension means a pension presently payable from a foreign superannuation fund.
forest operations means:
(a)	the planting or tending in a plantation or forest of trees intended for felling; or
(b)	the felling of trees in a plantation or forest;
but does not include operations conducted otherwise than for the purposes of a business.
pension year has the meaning given by subsections (9) and (9A).
primary producer means a person whose principal occupation is primary production.
primary production means production resulting directly from:
(a)	the cultivation of land; or
(b)	the maintenance of animals or poultry for the purpose of selling them or their bodily produce, including natural increase; or
(c)	fishing operations; or
(d)	forest operations;
and includes the manufacture of dairy produce by the person who produced the raw material used in that manufacture.
principal home has the meaning given by section 5LA.
property owner has the meaning given by subsection (4).
reasonable security of tenure has the meaning given by subsection 5LA(10).
refundable deposit has the same meaning as in the Aged Care Act 2024.
refundable deposit balance has the same meaning as in the Aged Care Act 2024.
unrealisable asset has the meaning given by subsections (11) and (12).
value of a charge or encumbrance on an asset has the meaning given by subsection (3).
value of a liability has the meaning given by subsection (3A).
value of a particular asset has the meaning given by subsection (2).
(2)	A reference in this Act to the value of a particular asset of a person is, if the asset is owned by the person jointly or in common with another person or persons, a reference to the value of the person’s interest in the asset.
(3)	A reference in this Act to the value of a charge or encumbrance on an asset of a person is, if the asset is owned by the person jointly or in common with another person or persons, a reference to the value of that charge or encumbrance in so far as it relates to the person’s interest in the asset.
(3A)	A reference in this Act to the value of a liability of a person is, if the liability is shared by the person with another person, a reference to the value of the person’s share of the liability.
(3B)	To avoid doubt, an accommodation bond balance (within the meaning of the Aged Care Rules 2025) in respect of an accommodation bond (within the meaning of the Aged Care Act 2024: see subsection (1) of this section) paid by a person is taken to be an asset of the person.
(3BA)	To avoid doubt, a refundable deposit balance (within the meaning of the Aged Care Act 2024) in respect of a refundable deposit (within the meaning of that Act: see subsection (1) of this section) paid by a person is taken to be an asset of the person.
(3C)	To avoid doubt, a person’s entitlement to be paid a pension bonus or pension bonus bereavement payment is taken not to be an asset of the person for the purposes of this Act.
(3D)	Subsection (3C) is to be disregarded in determining whether any other entitlement is an asset for the purposes of this Act.
Property owner
(4)	For the purposes of this Act:
(a)	a person who is not a member of a couple is a property owner if:
(i)	the person has a right or interest in the person’s principal home; and
(ii)	the person’s right or interest in the home gives the person reasonable security of tenure in the home; and
(b)	a person who is a member of a couple is a property owner if:
(i)	the person, or the person’s partner, has a right or interest in one residence that is:
(A)	the person’s principal home; or
(B)	the partner’s principal home; or
(C)	the principal home of both of them; and
(ii)	the person’s right or interest, or the partner’s right or interest, in the home gives the person, or the person’s partner, reasonable security of tenure in the home; and
(c)	a person (whether a member of a couple or not) is a property owner while:
(i)	the whole or a part of the proceeds of the sale of the person’s principal home are disregarded under subsection 52(2); or
(ii)	the value of a residence, land or a structure is disregarded under subsection 52(2).
Note:	See also sections 52KA–52X (special residences).
Pension year—disposal of assets
(9)	A reference in sections 52E to 52J (disposal of assets) to a pension year, in relation to a person who is receiving a service pension, income support supplement, a veteran payment or a social security pension is a reference to:
(a)	if the person is a member of a couple and the person and the person’s partner were, immediately before they became members of that couple, receiving a service pension, income support supplement, a veteran payment or a social security pension—the period of 12 months commencing on the day on which they became members of that couple; or
(b)	in a case (not being a case referred to in paragraph (a)) where the person is a member of a couple and the person’s partner is receiving a service pension, income support supplement, a veteran payment or a social security pension—the period of 12 months commencing on the day on which a service pension, income support supplement, a veteran payment or a social security pension first became payable to the person or to the person’s partner, whichever was the earlier; or
(c)	in any other case—the period of 12 months commencing on the day on which a service pension, income support supplement, a veteran payment or a social security pension first became payable;
and to each succeeding and each preceding period of 12 months.
No pension year to extend beyond 30 June 2002
(9A)	No period after 30 June 2002 is, or is a part of, a pension year of a person. If, apart from this subsection, a period beginning before 1 July 2002 and ending on or after that date would be a pension year of a person, the part of that period that ends immediately before that date is taken to be a pension year of the person.
(10)	The lending of money after 22 May 1986 is not a disposition of an asset for the purposes of section 52E.
Pre-pension year—disposal of assets
(10A)	A reference in sections 52FA and 52GA (disposal of assets) to a pre-pension year, in relation to a person who is claiming:
(a)	a service pension; or
(b)	income support supplement; or
(c)	a social security pension;
is a reference to the period of 12 months ending on the day that is the person’s provisional commencement day and each preceding period of 12 months.
Note:	A disposition of assets that is more than 5 years old is disregarded (see section 52J).
No pre-pension year to extend beyond 30 June 2002
(10B)	No period after 30 June 2002 is, or is a part of, a pre-pension year of a person. If, apart from this subsection, a period beginning before 1 July 2002 and ending on or after that date would be a pre-pension year of a person, the part of that period that ends immediately before that date is taken to be a pre-pension year of the person.
Unrealisable asset
(11)	An asset of a person is an unrealisable asset if:
(a)	the person cannot sell or realise the asset; and
(b)	the person cannot use the asset as a security for borrowing.
(12)	For the purposes of the application of this Act to a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment, an asset of a person is also an unrealisable asset if:
(a)	the person could not reasonably be expected to sell or realise the asset; and
(b)	the person could not reasonably be expected to use the asset as a security for borrowing.
5LA Principal home definition for the purpose of the assets test
Principal home
(1)	A reference in this Act to the principal home of a person includes a reference to:
(a)	if the principal home is a dwelling-house—the land adjacent to the dwelling-house to the extent that:
(i)	the land is held on the same title document as the land on which the dwelling-house is located; and
(ii)	the private land use test in subsection (3) is satisfied in relation to the land or, if the person is one to whom the extended land use test applies in relation to the land, the extended land use test in subsection (6) is satisfied in relation to the land; or
(b)	if the principal home is a flat or home unit—a garage or storeroom that is used primarily for private or domestic purposes in association with the flat or home unit.
(2)	The Commission may determine that land is to be treated, for the purpose of subparagraph (1)(a)(i), as if it were held on the same title document as other land if any of the following apply:
(a)	the dwelling-house is located on both blocks of land;
(b)	the dwelling-house is located on one of the blocks of land but that block and the other block, taken together, are a place, or are part of a place, that is protected under a law of the Commonwealth, or of a State or Territory, because of its natural, historic or indigenous heritage;
(c)	the alienation of one of the blocks of land without the other would seriously undermine the function of the house as a dwelling.
Note:	A mere loss of amenity, such as the loss of a swimming pool, garden, tennis court or view, would not seriously undermine the function of a house as a dwelling.
Private land use test
(3)	The private land use test is satisfied in relation to land if:
(a)	the area of land, together with the area of the ground floor of the dwelling-house, is not more than 2 hectares; and
(b)	the land is used primarily for private or domestic purposes in association with the dwelling-house.
To whom does the extended land use test apply?
(4)	The extended land use test applies to a person in relation to land adjacent to the dwelling-house if:
(a)	the person has reached the qualifying age; and
(b)	the person is eligible to receive a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment and that pension, supplement or payment is payable to the person; and
(c)	the dwelling-house has been the person’s principal home for 20 years or more continuously.
Note:	For qualifying age see section 5Q.
(5)	Where a person (the first person) to whom the extended land use test applies in relation to land adjacent to the dwelling-house in which the person lives is a member of a couple:
(a)	the extended land use test applies to the first person’s partner (the second person); and
(b)	the extended land use test continues to apply to the second person if the first person and the second person cease to be members of a couple for any reason, provided the dwelling-house continues to be the second person’s principal home.
Extended land use test
(6)	The extended land use test is satisfied in relation to land if:
(a)	the area of the land, together with the area of the ground floor of the dwelling-house, is more than 2 hectares; and
(b)	the Commission determines that, given the circumstances of the person to whom the test is applied in relation to the land, the person is making effective use of the land.
(7)	In determining whether a person is making effective use of the land, the Commission is to take into account the following matters:
(a)	where the land is located;
(b)	the size of the block of land;
(c)	the person’s family situation;
(d)	the person’s health;
(e)	whether the land contains a dwelling-house occupied by a family member of the person, or a child of a family member of the person, receiving an income support payment (within the meaning of the Social Security Act 1991);
(f)	whether the land is being used to support:
(i)	a family member of the person; or
(ii)	a child of a family member of the person;
(g)	any current commercial use of the land;
(h)	any potential commercial use of the land;
(i)	whether the person’s capacity to make commercial use of the land is diminished because the person, or the person’s partner, has responsibility for the care of another person;
(j)	whether the block of land is an amalgamation of 2 or more blocks and, if so:
(i)	when the amalgamation occurred; and
(ii)	whether the amalgamation reduced the potential for the land to produce personal income or to support the person;
(k)	environmental issues relating to the land;
(l)	any other matter that the Commission considers relevant.
Effect of absences from principal home
(8)	A residence of a person is taken to be the person’s principal home during:
(a)	if the Commission is satisfied that the residence was previously the person’s principal home but that the person left it for the purpose of going into a care situation or becoming an aged care resident—any period during which:
(i)	the person is accruing a liability to pay an accommodation charge (or would be accruing such a liability, assuming that no conditions under section 143 of the Aged Care Act 2024 were currently being imposed on the provider of the care concerned); and
(ii)	the person, or the person’s partner, is earning, deriving or receiving rent for the residence from another person; and
(b)	if the Commission is satisfied that the residence was previously the person’s principal home but that the person left it for the purpose of going into a care situation or becoming an aged care resident—any period during which:
(i)	the person is liable to pay all or some of an accommodation bond by periodic payments (or would be liable to do so, assuming that no conditions under section 143 of the Aged Care Act 2024 were currently being imposed on the provider of the care concerned); and
(ii)	the person, or the person’s partner, is earning, deriving or receiving rent for the residence from another person; and
(ba)	if the Commission is satisfied that the residence was previously the person’s principal home but that the person left it for the purpose of going into a care situation or becoming an aged care resident—any period during which:
(i)	the person is liable to pay all or some of a daily accommodation payment or a daily accommodation contribution (or would be liable to do so, assuming that no conditions under section 143 of the Aged Care Act 2024 were currently being imposed on the provider of the care concerned); and
(ii)	the person, or the person’s partner, is earning, deriving or receiving rent for the residence from another person; and
(c)	any period during which the residence is, because of paragraph (a), (b) or (ba), the principal home of the person’s partner.
Note 1:	Accommodation charge and accommodation bond have the same meaning as in the Aged Care Act 2024: see subsection 5L(1).
Note 2:	For rent, see subsection 5N(2). For in a care situation, see subsection 5NC(2). For aged care resident, see subsection 5NC(5).
Note 3:	This subsection is not meant to imply that a person may have more than one principal home at the same time.
Note 4:	A person can be liable to pay an accommodation charge only if certain conditions are met in accordance with rules made for the purposes of Chapter 4 of the Aged Care Act 2024.
(8A)	Subsection (8) does not apply in relation to a person if:
(a)	that subsection did not apply in relation to the person immediately before the commencement of the Aged Care Act 2024; or
(b)	a period of 28 consecutive days ends after that commencement in which the person:
(i)	was not provided with residential care or flexible care through a residential care service or a flexible care service; and
(ii)	did not access ongoing funded aged care services in an approved residential care home;
other than because the person was on leave.
(8C)	An expression used in subsection (8A) and in the Aged Care Act 2024 or the Aged Care Act 1997 (as in force immediately before the commencement of the Aged Care Act 2024) has the same meaning in that subsection as in those Acts.
(9)	A residence of a person is to be taken to continue to be the person’s principal home during:
(a)	any period (not exceeding 12 months or any longer period determined under subsection (9A) or (9B)) during which the person is temporarily absent from the residence; and
(b)	if the person is in a care situation or is an aged care resident—the period of 2 years beginning when the person started to be in a care situation or an aged care resident; and
(c)	any period during which:
(i)	the person is in a care situation or is an aged care resident; and
(ii)	the residence is, or because of paragraph (a) or (b) continues to be, the principal home of the person’s partner or non-illness separated spouse; and
(d)	if:
(i)	the person is in a care situation or is an aged care resident; and
(ii)	while paragraph (c) applies, the person’s partner or non-illness separated spouse dies while in a care situation or while an aged care resident; and
(iii)	the person’s partner or non-illness separated spouse had been in a care situation or an aged care resident for less than 2 years;
the period of 2 years beginning at the time the person’s partner or non-illness separated spouse started to be in a care situation or an aged care resident; and
(e)	where:
(i)	the person is in a care situation or is an aged care resident; and
(ii)	while paragraph (c) applies, the person’s partner or non-illness separated spouse dies (but not while in a care situation or while an aged care resident);
the period of 2 years from that death; and
(f)	any period of up to 2 years while the person is absent from the residence and is personally providing community-based care for another person.
Note 1:	For in a care situation, see subsection 5NC(2).
Note 2:	For aged care resident, see subsection 5NC(5).
(9A)	For the purposes of paragraph (9)(a), the Commission may determine, in writing, a period of up to 24 months if:
(a)	a person’s principal home is lost or damaged (including, for example, by a natural disaster); and
(b)	the loss or damage was not wilfully caused by the person; and
(c)	the person is making reasonable attempts, as a result of the loss or damage, to:
(i)	rebuild or repair the principal home; or
(ii)	sell the principal home in order to purchase or build another residence that is to be the person’s principal home; or
(iii)	purchase or build another residence that is to be the person’s principal home; and
(d)	the person has made those attempts within a reasonable period after the loss or damage; and
(e)	the person has experienced delays beyond his or her control in:
(i)	rebuilding, repairing or selling the principal home; or
(ii)	purchasing or building the other residence.
(9B)	For the purposes of paragraph (9)(a), the Commission may, in relation to a person and a residence of the person, determine, in writing, a longer period if:
(a)	the Commission is satisfied that the person is temporarily absent from that residence because the person is absent from Australia; and
(b)	the Commission is satisfied that the person’s absence from Australia is temporary; and
(c)	the Commission is satisfied that the person is unable to return to Australia before the end of the following period because of circumstances beyond the person’s control:
(i)	the 12 months mentioned in paragraph (9)(a), unless subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph applies;
(ii)	if the Commission has determined a period under subsection (9A) in relation to the person and that residence—that period.
Reasonable security of tenure
(10)	If a person has a right or interest in the person’s principal home, the person is to be taken to have a right or interest that gives the person reasonable security of tenure in the home unless the Commission is satisfied that the right or interest does not give the person reasonable security of tenure in the home.
Definition of title document
(11)	In this section:
title document, in relation to land, means:
(a)	in relation to land title which is registered under a Torrens system of registration—the certificate of title for the land; or
(b)	in any other case—the last instrument by which title to the land was conveyed.
Application of the Legislation Act 2003
(12)	A determination under subsection (2) or paragraph (6)(b) is not a legislative instrument.
5M Retirement village definitions
(1)	In this Act:
member of an ordinary couple with different principal homes has the meaning given by subsection (2).
retirement village has the meaning given by subsections (3) and (4).
retirement village resident has the meaning given by subsection (5).
(2)	A person is a member of an ordinary couple with different principal homes if:
(a)	the person is a member of a couple; and
(b)	the person does not share the person’s principal home with the person’s partner; and
(c)	the person is not a member of an illness separated couple.
(3)	Premises constitute a retirement village for the purposes of this Act if:
(a)	the premises are residential premises; and
(b)	accommodation in the premises is primarily intended for persons who are at least 55 years old; and
(c)	the premises consist of:
(i)	one or more of the following kinds of accommodation:
(A)	self-care units;
(B)	serviced units;
(C)	hostel units; and
(ii)	communal facilities for use by occupants of the units referred to in subparagraph (i).
(3A)	For the purposes of paragraph (3)(b), if accommodation in premises is primarily intended for persons who are a certain age that is more than 55 years, the accommodation in those premises is taken to be primarily intended for persons who are at least 55 years old.
(4)	Residential premises are also to be taken to constitute a retirement village for the purposes of this Act if, in the Commission’s opinion, the premises have similar functions to those referred to in subsection (3).
(5)	A person is a retirement village resident if the person’s principal home is in a retirement village.
Note:	Subsection (3A) was inserted as a response to the decision of the Federal Court in Repatriation Commission v Clarke (unreported, VG73 of 1991).
5MA Granny flat definitions
(1)	In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
granny flat interest has the meaning given by subsection (2).
granny flat resident has the meaning given by subsection (3).
(2)	A person has a granny flat interest in the person’s principal home if:
(a)	the residence that is the person’s principal home is a private residence; and
(b)	the person has acquired for valuable consideration or has retained:
(i)	a right to accommodation for life in the residence; or
(ii)	a life interest in the residence.
(3)	A person is a granny flat resident if the person has a granny flat interest in the person’s principal home.
5MB Sale leaseback definitions
(1)	In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
deferred payment amount has the meaning given by subsections (6), (7) and (8).
initial payment amount has the meaning given by subsections (4) and (5).
sale leaseback agreement has the meaning given by subsections (2) and (3).
sale leaseback home has the meaning given by subsection (9).
sale leaseback resident has the meaning given by subsections (10) and (11).
(2)	An agreement is a sale leaseback agreement, in relation to a person, if:
(a)	under the agreement the person agrees to sell his or her principal home; and
(b)	the residence that is the person’s principal home is a private residence; and
(c)	under the agreement the person retains a right to accommodation in the residence; and
(d)	under the agreement the buyer is to pay an amount when the person vacates the residence or when the person dies.
(3)	An agreement is a sale leaseback agreement for the purposes of this Act if the agreement is an agreement in respect of which a determination under subsection 5R(14) is in force.
(4)	The initial payment amount, in relation to a sale leaseback agreement, is the amount that the Commission determines to be the initial amount that the buyer is to pay under the sale leaseback agreement.
(5)	In making the determination the Commission is to have regard to the following:
(a)	the consideration to be provided by the parties to the sale leaseback agreement;
(b)	when that consideration is to be provided;
(c)	the payments that are to be made under the sale leaseback agreement;
(d)	when those payments are to be made;
(e)	any other relevant matters.
(6)	The deferred payment amount, in relation to a sale leaseback agreement, is the total amount to be paid by the buyer under the sale leaseback agreement less the initial payment amount.
(7)	If the Commission considers that, for any special reason in a particular case, the deferred payment amount should be another amount, the deferred payment amount is that other amount.
Note:	Sections 52E to 52JE (disposal of assets) may be relevant to working out the deferred payment amount.
(8)	Without limiting subsection (7), the Commission may consider that the deferred payment amount should be another amount if:
(a)	the parties to the sale leaseback agreement are not at arm’s length; or
(b)	the parties to the sale leaseback agreement have undervalued the sale leaseback home so as to reduce the total amount to be paid by the buyer under the agreement.
(9)	A residence is a sale leaseback home if the residence is subject to a sale leaseback agreement.
(10)	A person is a sale leaseback resident if:
(a)	the person’s principal home is subject to a sale leaseback agreement; and
(b)	the person is a party to the sale leaseback agreement.
(11)	If a person is a member of a couple, the person is a sale leaseback resident if:
(a)	the person lives in the sale leaseback home; and
(b)	the person’s partner is a sale leaseback resident.
Note:	Subsection (11) will only be used if a person is not a sale leaseback resident under subsection (10).
5MC Special residence and resident definitions
(1)	In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
actual value has the meaning given by subsection (4).
special residence has the meaning given by subsection (2).
special resident has the meaning given by subsection (3).
(2)	A residence is a special residence if the residence is:
(a)	in a retirement village; or
(b)	a granny flat; or
(c)	a sale leaseback home.
(3)	A person is a special resident if the person is:
(a)	a retirement village resident; or
(b)	a granny flat resident; or
(c)	a sale leaseback resident.
(4)	In Subdivision C of Division 11 (sections 52KA to 52X), a reference to the actual value of the assets of a member of a couple is a reference to the value of the assets that are actually assets of the person rather than the person’s partner, that is, the value that would be the value of the person’s assets apart from the provisions in point SCH6-F2.
5N Rent definitions
(1)	In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
amount of rent paid or payable has the meaning given by subsections (6) and (7).
board, when used in the expression board and lodging, means the provision of meals on a regular basis in connection with the provision of lodging.
Government rent means rent payable to any of the following authorities:
(a)	New South Wales Land and Housing Corporation;
(b)	the Director, within the meaning of the Housing Act 1983 of the State of Victoria;
(c)	The Queensland Housing Commission;
(d)	The Corporation of the Director of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement established by a law of Queensland;
(e)	the South Australian Housing Trust;
(f)	The State Housing Commission established by a law of Western Australia;
(g)	the Director-General of Housing and Construction holding office under a law of Tasmania;
(h)	the Northern Territory Housing Commission;
(i)	The Commissioner for Housing within the meaning of the Housing Assistance Act 1987 of the Australian Capital Territory.
Note 1:	Subsection (5) deals with the situation when the name of an authority is altered.
Note 2:	Rent payable by a person for living in premises in respect of which someone else pays Government rent may also be regarded as Government rent (see subsection (4)).
ineligible property owner means a property owner other than:
(a)	a person who is a property owner by virtue of paragraph 5L(4)(c); or
(c)	a person who:
(i)	is absent from the person’s principal home, in relation to which the person is a property owner; and
(ii)	is in a care situation but is not residing in a retirement village; or
(ca)	a person who:
(i)	is absent from the person’s principal home, in relation to which the person is a property owner; and
(ii)	is personally providing community-based care for another person; or
(d)	a person who pays amounts for the use of a site for a caravan or other vehicle, or a structure, that is the person’s principal home; or
(e)	a person who pays amounts for the right to moor a vessel that is the person’s principal home.
Note:	For retirement village see subsections 5M(3) and (4), for property owner see subsection 5L(4), for principal home see section 5LA, for personally providing community-based care, see subsection 5NC(4), for in a care situation see subsection 5NC(2).
rent has the meaning given by this section.
residential care charge means an amount paid by, or on behalf of, a person to a registered provider (within the meaning of the Aged Care Act 2024) for the delivery of care to the person, but does not include an accommodation bond (within the meaning of that Act).
(2)	Amounts are rent in relation to the person if:
(a)	the amounts are payable by the person:
(i)	as a condition of occupancy of premises, or of a part of premises, that are in Australia and are occupied by the person as the person’s principal home; or
(ia)	as a condition of occupancy of premises, or of a part of premises, that are in Australia and are occupied by the person to allow him or her personally to provide community-based care for another person; or
(ii)	for services provided in a retirement village in Australia that is the person’s principal home; or
(iii)	if the person is in a care situation and the place where the person receives the care is a place in Australia that is the person’s principal home or would be the person’s principal home apart from subsection 5LA(8) or (9)—for accommodation in the place where the person receives care; or
(iv)	for lodging in premises in Australia that are the person’s principal home; or
(v)	for the use of a site in Australia for:
(A)	a caravan or other vehicle; or
(B)	a structure;
occupied by the person as the person’s principal home; or
(vi)	for the right to moor in Australia a vessel that is occupied by the person as the person’s principal home; and
(b)	either:
(i)	the amounts are payable every 3 months or more frequently; or
(ii)	the amounts are payable at regular intervals (greater than 3 months) and the Commission is satisfied that the amounts should be treated as rent for the purposes of this Act.
Note:	For retirement village see subsections 5M(3) and (4) and for principal home see section 5LA.
(3)	Subparagraphs (2)(a)(ii) to (vi) (inclusive) do not limit the generality of subparagraph (2)(a)(i).
(3AA)	To avoid doubt, an amount that is paid or becomes payable by a person is not rent in relation to the person (either at the time when it is paid or becomes payable or at any later time) if the amount is, or forms part of, a special resident’s entry contribution in relation to the person in respect of a retirement village under section 52M, whether the amount is paid or payable (whether wholly or partly) in a lump sum, by instalments or otherwise.
(3AB)	If the whole or any part of an amount that is not rent in relation to a person as mentioned in subsection (3AA) is, or will or may become, repayable to the person, any amount by which the amount so repayable is reduced is not rent in relation to the person (either at the time when the reduction occurs or at any later time).
(3A)	If a person is in a care situation and the person’s principal home is not the place where the person receives the care, the person’s rent may be an amount described in any of the subparagraphs of paragraph (2)(a) that applies to the person but cannot include amounts described in different subparagraphs of paragraph (2)(a).
Note:	Under subsection 5LA(8) or (9), the principal home of a person in a care situation may be a place other than the place where the person receives care.
(3B)	If an amount described in subparagraph (2)(a)(ia) and an amount described in another subparagraph of paragraph (2)(a) are payable by a person, the person’s rent may be an amount described in either of those subparagraphs but cannot include amounts described in different subparagraphs of paragraph (2)(a).
Note:	Under subsection 5LA(8) or (9), premises occupied by a person as described in subparagraph (2)(a)(ia) may not be the person’s principal home.
(4)	If a person pays, or is liable to pay, rent for living in premises in respect of which another person pays Government rent, the rent paid or payable by the person for living in those premises is taken to be Government rent, unless:
(a)	the rent paid by the other person is at or above a rate that the authority receiving the rent has told the Department is the market rate; or
(b)	the person shares the premises with that other person and the person’s income has been taken into account in calculating the amount of Government rent payable in respect of those premises.
(5)	If a law of a State or of the Northern Territory alters the name of an authority referred to in the definition of Government rent in subsection (1), a reference to that authority in that definition is to be read as a reference to the authority under the new name.
Board and lodging
(6)	Where:
(a)	a person pays, or is liable to pay, amounts for board and lodging; and
(b)	it is not possible to work out the part of each of those amounts that is paid or payable for lodging;
the amount of rent paid or payable by the person is, for the purposes of this Act, to be taken to be two-thirds of the amounts paid or payable as mentioned in paragraph (a).
People in care situations
(7)	Where:
(a)	a person in a care situation pays, or is liable to pay, amounts for accommodation and other services in the care situation; and
(b)	it is not possible to work out the part of each of those amounts that is paid or payable in respect of accommodation;
the amount of rent paid or payable by the person is, for the purposes of this Act, to be taken to be two-thirds of the amounts paid or payable as mentioned in paragraph (a).
5NA Indexation and rate adjustment definitions
(1)	In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
current figure, as at a particular time and in relation to an amount that is to be indexed or adjusted under Division 18 of Part IIIB, means:
(a)	if the amount has not yet been indexed or adjusted under Division 18 before that time—the amount; and
(b)	if the amount has been indexed or adjusted under Division 18 before that time—the amount most recently substituted for the amount under Division 18 before that time.
index number, in relation to a quarter, means the All Groups Consumer Price Index number that is the weighted average of the 8 capital cities and is published by the Australian Statistician in respect of that quarter.
Publication of substituted index numbers
(2)	Subject to subsection (3), if at any time (whether before or after the commencement of this section), the Australian Statistician publishes an index number for a quarter in substitution for an index number previously published by the Australian Statistician for that quarter, the publication of the later index number is to be disregarded for the purposes of this section.
Change to CPI index reference period
(3)	If at any time (whether before or after the commencement of this section) the Australian Statistician changes the index reference period for the Consumer Price Index, regard is to be had, for the purposes of applying this section after the changed index place, only to index numbers published in terms of the new index reference period.
5NB Compensation recovery definitions
(1)	In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
average weekly earnings, in relation to a lump sum preclusion period, means the amount:
(a)	estimated as the average total weekly earnings, during a particular month, of all employees (all persons) in Australia; and
(b)	last published by the Australian Statistician before the lump sum compensation payment became payable.
Note:	For lump sum preclusion period see subsections 59Q(3) to (7).
compensation has the meaning given by subsection (2).
Note:	See also section 59O.
compensation affected pension means:
(a)	an invalidity service pension payable to a person who has not reached pension age; or
(b)	a partner service pension payable to a person who has not reached pension age; or
(c)	income support supplement payable to a person who has not reached qualifying age; or
(d)	a veteran payment payable to a person who has not reached pension age (within the meaning of subsections 5QB(2), (3), (4) and (5)); or
(f)	an education entry payment payable to a person who:
(i)	is receiving invalidity service pension or partner service pension; or
(ii)	is receiving income support supplement and has not reached qualifying age.
Note 1:	For pension age see sections 5QA and 5QB.
Note 2:	For qualifying age see section 5Q.
compensation part, in relation to a lump sum compensation payment, has the meaning given by subsections (7) and (8).
compensation payer means:
(a)	a person who is liable to make a compensation payment; or
(b)	an authority of a State or Territory that has determined that it will make a payment by way of compensation to another person, whether or not the authority is liable to make the payment.
event that gives rise to a person’s entitlement to compensation has the meaning given by subsection (11).
periodic payments period means:
(a)	the period to which a periodic compensation payment, or a series of periodic compensation payments, relates; or
(b)	in the case of a payment of arrears of periodic compensation payments—the period to which those payments would have related if they had not been made by way of arrears payment.
potential compensation payer means a person who, in the Commission’s opinion, may become a compensation payer.
receives compensation has the meaning given by subsection (10).
Compensation
(2)	For the purposes of Part IIIC, compensation means:
(a)	a payment of damages or compensation; or
(b)	a payment under a scheme of insurance or compensation under a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory, or under a contract entered into under such a scheme; or
(c)	a payment (with or without admission of liability) in settlement of a claim for damages or of a claim under such an insurance scheme;
made wholly or partly in respect of lost earnings or lost capacity to earn. The payment may be in the form of a lump sum (or part of a lump sum) or in the form of periodic payments and may be made either within or outside Australia, but it does not include any payment that, under subsection (3), (4), (5), (6) or (6A), is excluded from the application of this subsection.
Note:	Under section 59O, a person may be treated as having received compensation that the person would have received but for the effect of a State or Territory law.
(3)	Subsection (2) does not apply to a periodic payment or a lump sum payment referred to in paragraph 26(1)(b) or (2)(b) or subsection 30(3).
(4)	Subsection (2) does not apply to a compensation payment if:
(a)	the recipient has made contributions (for example, by way of insurance premiums) towards the payment; and
(b)	either:
(i)	the agreement under which the contributions are made does not provide for the amounts that would otherwise be payable under the agreement being reduced or not payable because the recipient is eligible for or receives the compensation affected pension under this Act; or
(ii)	the agreement does so provide but the compensation payment has been calculated without reference to the provision.
(5)	Subsection (2) does not apply to any payment of compensation made to a person that was taken into account under Division 5A of Part II to reduce the amount, or stop the payment, of a pension that, apart from that Division, would have been payable to the person under that Part.
(6)	Subsection (2) does not apply to any payment of compensation made to a person that was taken into account under Division 4 of Part IV to reduce the amount, or stop the payment, of a pension that, apart from that Division, would have been payable to the person under that Part.
(6A)	A payment under a law of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory that provides for the payment of compensation for a criminal injury does not constitute compensation for the purposes of this Act.
(6B)	The reference in subsection (6A) to a criminal injury is a reference to a personal injury suffered, or a disease or condition contracted, as a result of the commission of an offence.
Compensation part of a lump sum
(7)	Subject to subsection (8), for the purposes of Part IIIC, the compensation part of a lump sum compensation payment is:
(a)	50% of the payment if the following circumstances apply:
(i)	the payment is made (either with or without admission of liability) in settlement of a claim that is, in whole or in part, related to a disease, injury or condition; and
(ii)	the claim was settled, either by consent judgment being entered in respect of the settlement or otherwise; or
(b)	50% of the payment if the following circumstances apply:
(i)	the payment represents that part of a person’s entitlement to periodic compensation payments that the person has chosen to receive in the form of a lump sum; and
(ii)	the entitlement to periodic compensation payments arose from the settlement (either with or without admission of liability) of a claim that is, in whole or in part, related to a disease, injury or condition; and
(iii)	the claim was settled, either by consent judgment being entered in respect of the settlement or otherwise; or
(c)	if paragraphs (a) and (b) do not apply—so much of the payment as is, in the Commission’s opinion, in respect of lost earnings or lost capacity to earn, or both.
(8)	If a person:
(a)	has received periodic compensation payments in respect of lost earnings or lost capacity to earn; and
(b)	after receiving those payments, receives a lump sum compensation payment in respect of the lost earnings or lost capacity to earn (the LSP); and
(c)	because of receiving the LSP, becomes liable to repay an amount (the Repaid Periodic Compensation Payment—RPCP) equal to the periodic compensation payments received;
then, for the purposes of subsection (7), the amount of the lump sum compensation payment is:
(9)	For the purposes of Part IIIC, a payment of arrears of periodic compensation payments is not a lump sum compensation payment.
Note:	For the treatment of a payment of arrears of periodic compensation payments where, at the time of the event that gave rise to the compensation payments, the person was receiving a payment under this Act that is covered by Part IIIC, see point SCH6-E4.
Receives compensation
(10)	A person receives compensation whether he or she receives it directly or whether another person receives it, on behalf of, or at the direction of the first person.
Event giving rise to entitlement
(11)	For the purposes of Part IIIC, the event that gives rise to a person’s entitlement to compensation for a disease, injury or condition is:
(a)	if the disease, injury or condition was caused by an accident—the accident; or
(b)	in any other case—the disease, injury or condition first becoming apparent;
and is not, for example, the decision or settlement under which the compensation is payable.
Insurer
(12)	A reference in Part IIIC to an insurer who is, under a contract of insurance, liable to indemnify a compensation payer or a potential compensation payer against a liability arising from a claim for compensation includes a reference to:
(a)	an authority of a State or Territory that is liable to indemnify a compensation payer against such a liability, whether the authority is so liable under a contract, a law or otherwise; or
(b)	an authority of a State or Territory that determines to make a payment to indemnify a compensation payer against such a liability, whether or not the authority is liable to do so.
5NC In care definitions
(1)	In this Act:
aged care resident has the meaning given by subsection (5).
in a care situation has the meaning given by subsection (2).
in respite care has the meaning given by subsection (8).
personally providing community-based care has the meaning given by subsection (4).
receiving community-based care has the meaning given by subsection (3).
(2)	A person is in a care situation if:
(a)	the person is residing in premises at which accommodation is provided exclusively or principally for people who have a mental disability; or
(b)	the person is a nursing-home type patient, within the meaning of the Health Insurance Act 1973, of a hospital; or
(c)	the person is in respite care; or
(d)	the person is receiving community-based care.
(3)	A person is receiving community-based care if, in the Commission’s opinion, the person needs, and has been receiving or is likely to receive, a substantial level of care in a private residence for at least 14 consecutive days.
(4)	A person is personally providing community-based care for another person if, in the Commission’s opinion:
(a)	the first-mentioned person is personally providing for the other person, in a private residence, a substantial level of care needed by the other person; and
(b)	has personally provided, or is likely to personally provide, that level of care for at least 14 consecutive days.
(5)	Subject to subsections (6) and (7), a person is an aged care resident for the purposes of this Act if the person is accessing ongoing funded aged care services (other than under a specialist aged care program) in an approved residential care home operated by a registered provider.
(6)	A person is taken not to be an aged care resident if the person is in respite care.
(7)	The Commission may determine, for the purposes of subsection (5), that a person is taken not to be an aged care resident on a day that occurs:
(a)	after the person in fact became an aged care resident; and
(b)	before the day occurring 15 days after the person in fact became an aged care resident;
if the Commission is satisfied that, immediately before the day, the person was liable to pay rent.
(8)	A person is in respite care on a particular day if the person accesses short-term funded aged care services through the service group residential care.
(9)	An expression used in subsection (5) or (8) and in the Aged Care Act 2024 has the same meaning in that subsection as in that Act.
5PB Seniors health card definitions
(1)	In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
holder of a seniors health card has the meaning given by subsection (2).
(2)	A person is the holder of a seniors health card while there is in force a determination under section 118ZG or 118ZP that the person is entitled to a seniors health card.
5PC Exempt funeral investments
(1)	Work out whether a funeral investment that relates to a particular funeral is an exempt funeral investment by applying these rules:
(a)	the expenses for the funeral must not be prepaid; and
(b)	in relation to that funeral:
(i)	only one investment of not more than $10,000 can be an exempt funeral investment; or
(ii)	only two investments that combined are not more than $10,000 can be exempt funeral investments.
Note:	The amounts in paragraph (1)(b) are indexed each year on 1 July (see Division 18 of Part IIIB).
(2)	Disregard any return on an investment in determining the amount of an investment for the purposes of this section.
(3)	For the purposes of subsection (1), a funeral investment means an investment, being an investment that cannot be realised before maturity and the return on which is not payable before maturity, that:
(a)	matures on the death of whichever member of a couple dies first or dies last and is to be applied on maturity to the expenses of the funeral of that member of the couple; or
(b)	matures on the death of:
(i)	the investor; or
(ii)	if the investor is a member of a couple at the time the investment is made, the investor’s partner at that time;
and is to be applied on maturity to the expenses of the funeral of the person on whose death it matures.
5Q Dictionary
(1)	In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
Aboriginal study assistance scheme: see subsection 5F(1).
accommodation bond: see subsection 5L(1).
accommodation bond balance: see subsection 5L(1).
accommodation charge: see subsection 5L(1).
account, in relation to a financial institution, means the account maintained by a person with the institution to which is credited money received on deposit by the institution from that person.
actual market exchange rate in relation to a foreign currency, means the on-demand airmail buying rate in relation to that foreign currency available at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
actual value: see subsection 5MC(4).
adjusted income: see subsection 5H(1).
adopted child: see subsection 5F(1).
advance payment eligible amount, for a person, means:
(a)	if the person is receiving a service pension worked out under subpoint SCH6-A1(2) of Schedule 6—the sum of the following amounts:
(i)	the person’s maximum basic rate;
(ii)	the amount (if any) by which the person’s pension supplement amount exceeds the person’s minimum pension supplement amount; or
(b)	otherwise—the result of paragraph (a) worked out as if the person were receiving a service pension worked out under subpoint SCH6-A1(2) of Schedule 6.
aged care resident: see subsection 5NC(5).
allied country: see subsection 5C(1).
allied mariner: see subsection 5C(1).
allied veteran: see subsections 5C(1) and 5R(2).
allotted for duty in an operational area: see subsection 5B(2).
amount of rent paid or payable: see subsections 5N(6) and (7).
approved deposit fund: see subsection 5J(1).
approved exchange trading system: see subsection 5H(11).
Approved Guide to the Assessment of Rates of Veterans’ Pensions: see subsection 29(3).
asset: see subsections 5L(1), (3B), (3BA), (3C) and (3D).
asset-tested income stream (long term): see subsection 5J(1).
asset-tested income stream (short term): see subsection 5J(1).
asset-test exempt income stream: see sections 5JA, 5JB, 5JBA and 5JBB.
ATO small superannuation account: see subsection 5J(1).
Australia, when used in a geographical sense, includes the external Territories for the purposes of Parts III, IIIA, IIIAA and IIIAB, Subdivision E of Division 11 of Part IIIB, sections 52ZO and 58A, Parts IIID, IIIE, VIIA, VIIAD and VIIC, section 132 and Schedule 6.
Australian mariner: see subsection 5C(1).
Australian resident: see section 5G.
austudy payment has the meaning given by the Social Security Act 1991.
Authority has the same meaning as in the MRCA.
available money: see subsection 5H(1).
average weekly earnings in relation to a lump sum preclusion period: see subsection 5NB(1).
bank includes, but is not limited to, a body corporate that is an ADI (authorised deposit-taking institution) for the purposes of the Banking Act 1959.
blinded in an eye: see subsection 5D(3).
Board has the same meaning as in the MRCA.
board when used in the expression board and lodging: see subsection 5N(1).
British nuclear test defence service: see subsection 68(1).
child: see subsection 5F(1).
child of a veteran or child of a deceased veteran: see section 10.
clean energy bonus under an Act or scheme means any of the following that is provided for by the Act or scheme:
(b)	a payment known as an energy supplement or a quarterly energy supplement;
(c)	an increase that is described using the phrase “energy supplement” and affects the rate of another payment that is provided for by the Act or scheme.
clean energy payment means:
(b)	any of the following:
(i)	energy supplement under section 62A (for pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to Division 4 of Part II);
(ii)	energy supplement under section 62B (for pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to subsection 30(1));
(iii)	quarterly energy supplement for service pension; or
(c)	an essential medical equipment payment.
clean energy underlying payment means:
(a)	a pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to Division 4 of Part II; or
(b)	a pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to subsection 30(1); or
(c)	service pension; or
(d)	seniors supplement.
combined couple rate of minimum pension supplement: see subsection 5GA(2).
combined couple rate of pension supplement: see subsection 5GA(1).
commencement day in relation to an income stream: see subsection 5J(1).
Commission has the same meaning as in the MRCA.
Commissioner has the same meaning as in the MRCA.
Commonwealth country: see subsection 5C(1).
Commonwealth veteran: see subsection 5C(1).
comparable foreign pension means a payment that is:
(a)	available from a foreign country; and
(b)	similar to a service pension, income support supplement, a veteran payment or a social security pension.
compensation: see subsection 5NB(2) and section 59O.
compensation affected pension: see subsection 5NB(1).
compensation part in relation to a lump sum compensation payment: see subsection 5NB(1).
compensation payer: see subsection 5NB(1).
continuous full-time service: see subsections 5C(1) and 5R(1).
CSC (short for Commonwealth Superannuation Corporation) has the same meaning as in the Governance of Australian Government Superannuation Schemes Act 2011.
CTPA means the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation (Consequential and Transitional Provisions) Act 2004.
current figure: see subsection 5NA(1).
daily accommodation contribution: see subsection 5L(1).
daily accommodation payment: see subsection 5L(1).
date of commencement means 1 July 2026.
decision includes a determination and an assessment.
deductible amount in relation to a defined benefit income stream for a year: see subsection 5J(1).
de facto relationship: see section 11A.
defence-caused death: see sections 70 and 71.
defence-caused disease: see sections 70 and 71.
defence-caused injury: see sections 70 and 71.
Defence Force: see subsection 5C(1).
defence force established by a Commonwealth country: see subsection 5C(1).
defence force established by an allied country: see subsections 5C(1) and (3) and 5R(2).
Defence Minister has the meaning given by the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 2004.
defence service: see subsection 68(1).
deferred payment amount in relation to a sale leaseback agreement: see subsections 5MB(6), (7) and (8).
defined benefit income stream: see subsection 5J(1E).
dependant in relation to a veteran (including a veteran who has died): see section 11.
dependent child: see subsections 5F(1) and (2).
deposit money: see subsection 5H(1).
deprived asset: see subsection 5J(2B).
disability expenses maintenance: see section 5K.
disease: see subsection 5D(1).
disposes of assets: see subsection 5L(10) and section 52E.
disposes of ordinary income: see section 48.
domestic payment: see subsection 5H(3).
domiciled has a meaning affected by section 11B.
earned, derived or received: see subsection 5H(2).
eligible civilian: see subsection 5C(1).
eligible war service: see section 7.
EMEP residence has the meaning given by section 63A.
enemy: see subsection 5C(1).
energy supplement means:
(a)	energy supplement payable under section 62A (for pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to Division 4 of Part II); or
(b)	energy supplement payable under section 62B (for pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to subsection 30(1)); or
(c)	energy supplement added to a person’s maximum basic rate of service pension under the Rate Calculator.
entry contribution in relation to a special resident: see section 52M.
essential medical equipment payment has the meaning given by section 63A.
event that gives rise to a person’s entitlement to compensation: see subsection 5NB(11).
exchange trading system: see subsection 5H(10).
exempt funeral investment has the meaning given by section 5PC.
exempt lump sum: see subsections 5H(12) and (12A).
Family Assistance Act means the A New Tax System (Family Assistance) Act 1999.
family law affected income stream: see section 5JC.
family member: see subsection 5L(1).
family tax benefit: see subsection 5F(1).
financial asset: see subsection 5J(1).
financial institution means a corporation that is an ADI for the purposes of the Banking Act 1959.
financial investment: see subsections 5J(1) and (2C).
fishing operations: see subsection 5L(1).
fishing vessel: see subsection 5C(1).
foreign exchange period means:
(a)	the period commencing 20 September and ending on the day before the pension payday that falls closest to the middle of the 6 month period commencing 20 September; and
(b)	the period starting from the pension payday referred to in paragraph (a) and ending on 19 March; and
(c)	the period commencing 20 March and ending on the day before the pension payday that falls closest to the middle of a 6 month period commencing 20 March; and
(d)	the period starting from the pension payday referred to in paragraph (c) and ending on 19 September.
foreign superannuation fund: see subsection 5L(1).
foreign superannuation pension: see subsection 5L(1).
forest operations: see subsection 5L(1).
former refugee: see subsection 5C(1).
friendly society: see subsection 5J(1).
FTB child: see subsection 5F(1).
funeral investment: see subsection 5PC(3).
general rate means the maximum rate per fortnight specified in subsection 22(3).
governing rules in relation to an income stream: see subsection 5J(1).
government-in-exile: see subsection 5C(1).
Government rent: see subsections 5N(1), (4) and (5).
granny flat interest: see subsection 5MA(2).
granny flat resident: see subsection 5MA(3).
hazardous service: see subsection 68(1).
holder in relation to a visa: see subsection 5G(1).
holder of a seniors health card: see subsection 5PB(2).
home equity conversion agreement: see subsections 5H(1) and (7).
illness separated couple: see subsection 5R(5).
immediate family member, of a person, means an individual:
(a)	who is a natural parent, adoptive parent or step-parent of the person; or
(ab)	who is the person’s parent because of subsection 10A(1); or
(b)	who is, or was when the person was under 18 years of age, a legal guardian of the person; or
(c)	who is a grandparent of the person; or
(d)	who is a sibling of the person.
in a care situation: see subsection 5NC(2).
incapacity from a defence-caused disease: see subsection 5D(2).
incapacity from a defence-caused injury: see subsection 5D(2).
incapacity from a war-caused disease: see subsection 5D(2).
incapacity from a war-caused injury: see subsection 5D(2).
incentive allowance has the meaning that was given to that expression by the Social Security Act 1991 as in force immediately before 12 November 1991.
income: see subsection 5H(1).
income amount: see subsection 5H(1).
income stream: see subsections 5J(1) and (1F).
Income Tax Assessment Act means the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 and the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
income year has the meaning given by the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
index number: see subsections 5NA(1), (2) and (3).
ineligible property owner: see subsection 5N(1).
in gaol: see subsection 55(4).
initial payment amount in relation to a sale leaseback agreement: see subsections 5MB(4) and (5).
injury: see subsection 5D(1).
in respite care: see subsection 5NC(8).
instalment of parental leave pay: see subsection 5H(1).
insurer who is, under a contract of insurance, liable to indemnify: see subsection 5NB(12).
investment:
(a)	in relation to a superannuation fund or approved deposit fund—see subsection 5J(6); or
(b)	in relation to an ATO small superannuation account—see subsection 5J(6A).
investor in relation to an ATO small superannuation account: see subsection 5J(1).
joint ownership includes ownership as joint tenants or tenants in common.
life expectancy: see subsection 5J(1).
listed security: see subsection 5J(1).
loan: see subsections 5J(2) and (2A).
lump sum preclusion period: see subsections 59Q(3) to (8).
maintenance: see section 5K.
maintenance income: see section 5K.
managed investment: see subsections 5J(1A), (1B) and (1C).
maximum Part A rate of family tax benefit: see subsection 5F(1).
medical equipment has the meaning given by section 63A.
member of a couple: see subsections 5E(2), (3), (4) and (4A) and 5R(3).
member of an ordinary couple with different principal homes: see subsection 5M(2).
member of a Peacekeeping Force: see subsection 68(1).
member of a unit of the Defence Force: see subsections 5C(1) and 5R(1).
member of the Defence Force: see subsections 5C(1) and (2).
member of the Forces: see subsection 68(1).
member of the Interim Forces: see subsection 5C(1).
military invalidity pension income stream: see subsection 5J(1EA).
Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Act Education and Training Scheme means the scheme determined under section 258 of the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 2004.
minimum pension supplement amount: see subsection 5GA(3).
MRCA means the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 2004.
MRCA commencement date means the date on which section 3 of the MRCA commences.
NDIS amount has the same meaning as in the National Disability Insurance Scheme Act 2013.
NDIS participant means a participant within the meaning of the National Disability Insurance Scheme Act 2013.
NDIS plan means a plan, for an NDIS participant, within the meaning of the National Disability Insurance Scheme Act 2013.
non-illness separated spouse: see subsection 5E(1).
non-warlike service: see subsection 5C(1).
operational area: see subsection 5B(1).
operational service: see sections 6 to 6F.
ordinary income: see subsection 5H(1) and section 46.
organisation representing veterans means:
(a)	an organisation:
(i)	whose members include veterans throughout the Commonwealth; and
(ii)	whose objects include that of representing veterans throughout the Commonwealth; or
(b)	an organisation:
(i)	whose members include persons throughout the Commonwealth who are receiving or eligible to receive pensions under Part II as dependants of veterans; and
(ii)	whose objects include that of representing those persons throughout the Commonwealth.
original family law affected income stream: see section 5JC.
parent: see section 10A.
partner: see subsection 5E(1).
partnered: see paragraph 5E(5)(a).
partnered (partner getting benefit): see paragraph 5E(5)(e).
partnered (partner getting neither pension nor benefit): see paragraph 5E(5)(b).
partnered (partner getting pension): see paragraph 5E(5)(d).
partnered (partner getting pension or benefit): see paragraph 5E(5)(c).
peacekeeping service: see subsection 68(1).
pension, in Parts IIIA, IIIAB, IIIB and IIIC, section 122B and Schedule 6, includes income support supplement.
pension age:
(a)	in relation to a veteran—has the meaning given by section 5QA; or
(b)	in relation to a person other than a veteran—has the meaning given by section 5QB.
Note:	The qualifying age for income support supplement is separately provided for (see section 5Q).
pension bonus means pension bonus under Part IIIAB (and does not include pension bonus bereavement payment under Division 11A of that Part).
pension bonus bereavement payment means a pension bonus bereavement payment under Division 11A of Part IIIAB.
pension payday means:
(a)	the Thursday falling on 11 July 1991; and
(b)	each succeeding alternate Thursday.
Note:	Part of an instalment of a pension may be paid on a different day if a determination is in force under subsection 58(3A) or 121(5A) (about weekly payments of pension instalments).
pension period means a period of 2 weeks that:
(a)	starts 2 days before the beginning of a pension payday; and
(b)	ends 2 days before the beginning of the next pension payday.
pension supplement amount, for a person:
(a)	whose rate of service pension is worked out under subpoint SCH6-A1(2) or (3) of Schedule 6 or whose rate of veteran payment is worked out under subpoint SCH6-A1(8) or (9) of Schedule 6; or
(b)	whose rate of service pension is worked out under subpoint SCH6-A1(4) of Schedule 6 and is the provisional rate worked out under that subpoint;
means the amount worked out and added under the pension supplement Module of the Rate Calculator.
pension supplement basic amount: see subsection 5GA(4).
pension year: see subsections 5L(9) and (9A).
periodic amount: see subsection 5H(13).
periodic payments period: see subsection 5NB(1).
period of hostilities: see subsection 5B(1).
permanent visa: see subsection 5G(1).
personally providing community-based care: see subsection 5NC(4).
person with medical needs has the meaning given by section 63A.
physically present in a remote area has the meaning given by subsection (2).
port includes airport.
potential compensation payer: see subsection 5NB(1).
primary FLA income stream: see section 5JC.
primary producer: see subsection 5L(1).
primary production: see subsection 5L(1).
principal beneficiary, of a special disability trust, has the meaning given by subsection 52ZZZWA(1).
principal home: see section 5LA.
prohibited relationship: see subsections 5E(6) and (7).
property owner: see subsection 5L(4).
psychiatric confinement: see subsections 55(5) and (6).
public unit trust: see subsection 5J(1).
purchase price in relation to an income stream: see subsection 5J(1).
qualifying age for a person means:
(a)	if the person is a veteran—the pension age for that person; or
(b)	if the person is not a veteran—the age that would be the pension age for that person if he or she were a veteran.
qualifying service: see section 7A.
quarterly energy supplement for service pension means the separate payment described in section 62E.
quarterly pension supplement means the separate payment described in subsection 60A(1).
Rate Calculator means the Rate Calculator in Part 2 of Schedule 6.
reasonable security of tenure: see subsection 5LA(10).
receives compensation: see subsection 5NB(10).
receiving community-based care: see subsection 5NC(3).
recoverable amount has the meaning given by subsection 205(8).
refugee: see subsection 5C(4).
refundable deposit: see subsection 5L(1).
refundable deposit balance: see subsection 5L(1).
regular care child: see subsection 5F(1).
reinstated pensioner: see section 11AA.
relates to service: see subsections (1B) and (1C).
relevant number in relation to an income stream: see subsection 5J(1).
remote area means:
(a)	those parts of Australia referred to in Part I of Schedule 2 to the Income Tax Assessment Act; and
(aa)	those parts of Australia referred to in Part II of that Schedule to that Act that are further than 250 kilometres by the shortest practicable surface route from the nearest urban centre with a census population (within the meaning of that Act) of 2,500 or more; and
(ab)	those places in Australia that, for the purposes of that Act, are treated as if they were in a part of Australia referred to in paragraph (a) or (aa).
remunerative work includes any remunerative activity.
rent: see section 5N.
Repatriation Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme: see subsection 91(3).
Repatriation Private Patient Principles: see subsection 90A(4).
residential care charge: see subsection 5N(1).
residual capital value in relation to an income stream: see subsections 5J(1) and (9).
respite care couple: see subsection 5R(6).
retirement age:
(a)	in relation to a person who is a war widow or a war widower but is not a veteran—means the age that would be the pension age for that person if he or she were a veteran; or
(b)	in relation to any other person—means the pension age for that person.
retirement savings account: see subsection 5J(1).
retirement village: see subsections 5M(3) and (4).
retirement village resident: see subsection 5M(5).
return:
(a)	in relation to an ATO small superannuation account—see subsection 5J(1); or
(c)	in relation to any other investment (including an investment in the nature of superannuation)—see subsection 5J(1).
sale leaseback agreement: see subsections 5MB(2) and (3).
sale leaseback home: see subsection 5MB(9).
sale leaseback resident: see subsections 5MB(10) and (11).
secondary FLA income stream: see subsection 5J(1).
Secretary means the Secretary of the Department.
self-employment program means:
(a)	the scheme known as the New Enterprise Incentive Scheme; or
(b)	the program known as:
(i)	the Self-Employment Assistance program; or
(ii)	if the Self-Employment Assistance program is known by another name—that other name.
Note:	For the purposes of subparagraph (b)(ii), if the name of the Self-Employment Assistance program changes, notice must be given of that change (see subsection 23(25) of the Social Security Act).
service pension means:
(a)	an age service pension; or
(b)	an invalidity service pension; or
(c)	a partner service pension.
service pensioner means a person who is receiving a service pension.
sibling, of a person, except for the purposes of sections 123 to 123E, includes a half-brother, half-sister, adoptive brother, adoptive sister, stepbrother or stepsister of the person, but does not include a foster-brother or foster-sister of the person.
Note:	For the meaning of sibling in sections 123 to 123E, see subsection 123(1).
Social Security Act means the Social Security Act 1991.
social security benefit has the same meaning as it has in the Social Security Act.
social security law has the same meaning as in the Social Security Act.
social security payment has the same meaning as in the Social Security Act.
social security pension has the same meaning as it has in the Social Security Act.
special category visa: see subsection 5G(1).
special disability trust has the meaning given by section 52ZZZW.
special mission: see subsection 5C(1).
special purpose visa: see subsection 5G(1).
special residence: see subsection 5MC(2).
special resident: see subsection 5MC(3).
step-child: see subsection 5F(1).
step-parent: see subsection 5F(1).
superannuation benefit: see subsection 5J(1).
superannuation contributions surcharge: see subsection 5J(1).
superannuation fund: see subsection 5J(1).
tax-exempt pension supplement: see subsections 5GA(5) and (6).
tax file number has the same meaning as in Part VA of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936.
tax year means:
(a)	a year of income (within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936); or
(b)	an income year.
temporarily, in relation to a departure or absence from Australia, has a meaning affected by subsection (3) or (4), as the case requires.
tobacco product means:
(a)	tobacco (in any form); or
(b)	any product that:
(i)	contains tobacco as its main or a substantial ingredient; and
(ii)	is not included in the Australian Register of Therapeutic Goods kept under the Therapeutic Goods Act 1989.
transferred VEA rehabilitation program: see subsection 115A(1).
Treatment Principles: see subsection 90(4).
unit of the Defence Force: see subsection 5C(1).
unlisted public security: see subsection 5J(1).
unrealisable asset: see subsections 5L(11) and (12).
use, in relation to a tobacco product, includes smoke, chew or inhale.
value of a charge or encumbrance on an asset: see subsection 5L(3).
value of a liability: see subsection 5L(3A).
value of a particular asset: see subsection 5L(2).
Vehicle Assistance Scheme: see subsection 105(9).
veteran: see subsection 5C(1).
veteran payment means a veteran payment made under an instrument made under section 45SB.
war-caused death: see sections 8 and 9A.
war-caused disease: see sections 9 and 9A.
war-caused injury: see sections 9 and 9A.
warlike service: see subsection 5C(1).
war to which this Act applies: see subsection 5B(1).
war widow: see subsection 5E(1).
war widower: see subsection 5E(1).
war widow/war widower—pensioner means:
(a)	a person who is receiving a pension under Part II or IV of this Act at a rate determined under or by reference to subsection 30(1); or
(b)	a person who is receiving the weekly amount mentioned in paragraph 234(1)(b) of the MRCA (including a reduced weekly amount because of a choice under section 236 of the MRCA) or who has received a lump sum mentioned in subsection 236(5) of the MRCA.
wholly dependent partner: see subsection 5E(1).
widow: see subsection 5E(1).
widower: see subsection 5E(1).
World War 1: see subsections 5B(1) and (3).
World War 2: see subsections 5B(1) and (3).
youth allowance has the meaning given by the Social Security Act 1991.
(1A)	In Part VIII unless the contrary intention appears:
British nuclear test defence service has the same meaning as in Part IV.
defence service has the same meaning as in Part IV.
hazardous service, in relation to a member of the Forces, has the same meaning as in section 120.
member of a Peacekeeping Force has the same meaning as in Part IV.
member of the Forces has the same meaning as in Part IV.
peacekeeping service has the same meaning as in Part IV.
Definition of relates to service for injuries, diseases and deaths
(1B)	For the purposes of this Act, an injury, disease or death relates to service rendered by a person if:
(a)	it resulted from an occurrence that happened while the person was rendering that service; or
(b)	it arose out of, or was attributable to, that service; or
(c)	it resulted from an accident that occurred while the person was travelling, while rendering that service but otherwise than in the course of duty, on a journey:
(i)	to a place for the purpose of performing duty; or
(ii)	away from a place of duty upon having ceased to perform duty; or
(d)	in the case of an injury—it resulted from an accident that would not have occurred:
(i)	but for the rendering of that service by the person; or
(ii)	but for changes in the person’s environment consequent upon his or her having rendered that service; or
(e)	in the case of a disease—it would not have occurred:
(i)	but for the rendering of that service by the person; or
(ii)	but for changes in the person’s environment consequent upon his or her having rendered that service; or
(f)	in the case of a death of a person—it was due to an accident that would not have occurred, or to a disease that would not have been contracted:
(i)	but for the rendering of that service by the person; or
(ii)	but for changes in the person’s environment consequent upon his or her having rendered that service.
Definition of relates to service for aggravations and material contributions
(1C)	For the purposes of this Act, an aggravation of, or a material contribution to, an injury or disease relates to service rendered by a person if:
(a)	it resulted from an occurrence that happened while the person was rendering that service; or
(b)	it arose out of, or was attributable to, that service; or
(c)	it resulted from an accident that occurred while the person was travelling, while rendering that service but otherwise than in the course of duty, on a journey:
(i)	to a place for the purpose of performing duty; or
(ii)	away from a place of duty upon having ceased to perform duty; or
(d)	in the case of an aggravation of, or a material contribution to, an injury—it resulted from an accident that would not have occurred:
(i)	but for the rendering of that service by the person; or
(ii)	but for changes in the person’s environment consequent upon his or her having rendered that service; or
(e)	in the case of an aggravation of, or a material contribution to, a disease—it would not have occurred:
(i)	but for the rendering of that service by the person; or
(ii)	but for changes in the person’s environment consequent upon his or her having rendered that service.
(2)	If:
(a)	a person’s usual place of residence is in the remote area; and
(b)	the person is absent from the remote area for a period;
the person is to be taken to be physically present in the remote area during:
(c)	if the period does not exceed 8 weeks—the whole of that period; or
(d)	if the period exceeds 8 weeks—the first 8 weeks of that period.
Note:	The rule set out in subsection (2) may be modified by a determination under subsection 5R(11) or 5R(12).
(3)	In determining whether a person has left Australia temporarily or otherwise, regard is to be had to the following:
(a)	the purpose for which the person left Australia;
(b)	the intended duration of the person’s absence from Australia;
(c)	the frequency of the occasions on which the person has left Australia.
(4)	In determining whether a person is absent from Australia temporarily or otherwise, regard is to be had to the following:
(a)	the purpose of the absence;
(b)	the intended duration of the absence;
(c)	the frequency of such absences.
(5)	For the purposes of this Act, if under a provision of this Act one person is the child of another person because the person is a child of the other person within the meaning of the Family Law Act 1975, relationships traced to or through the person are to be determined on the basis that the person is the child of the other person.
Note:	Paragraph 10(1)(b) and paragraph (b) of the definition of child in section 52ZO are examples of provisions under which one person may be the child of another person because the person is a child of the other person within the meaning of the Family Law Act 1975.
(6)	Subsection (5) does not apply for the purposes of determining when a person and his or her partner are within a prohibited relationship under subsection 5E(6). However, this does not prevent expressions used in subsection 5E(6) from having their ordinary meaning.
5QAA Equal amounts
(1)	Where:
(a)	a provision of this Act refers to:
(i)	the greater or greatest, or the higher or highest; or
(ii)	the lesser or least, or the lower or lowest;
of 2 or more amounts; and
(b)	the amounts are equal;
the provision is taken to refer to one only of the amounts.
(2)	Where:
(a)	a provision of this Act refers to the greatest or highest of 3 or more amounts; and
(b)	2 or more (but not all) of the amounts are equal and exceed the other amount or other amounts;
the provision is taken to refer to one only of those equal amounts.
(3)	Where:
(a)	a provision of this Act refers to the least or lowest of 3 or more amounts; and
(b)	2 or more (but not all) of the amounts are equal and are less than the other amount or other amounts;
the provision is taken to refer to one only of those equal amounts.
5QA Pension age for veterans
(1)	This section deals with the pension age for veterans.
Men
(2)	A man reaches pension age when he turns 60 years.
Women
(3)	A woman born before 1 July 1940 reaches pension age when she turns 55.
(4)	A woman born within the period specified in column 2 of an item in the following Table reaches pension age when she turns the age specified in column 3 of that item.
Table
Column 1
Item no.
Column 2
Period within which woman was born (both dates inclusive)
Column 3
Pension age
1.
From 1 July 1940 to 31 December 1941
55 years and 6 months
2.
From 1 January 1942 to 30 June 1943
56 years
3.
From 1 July 1943 to 31 December 1944
56 years and 6 months
4.
From 1 January 1945 to 30 June 1946
57 years
5.
From 1 July 1946 to 31 December 1947
57 years and 6 months
6.
From 1 January 1948 to 30 June 1949
58 years
7.
From 1 July 1949 to 31 December 1950
58 years and 6 months
8.
From 1 January 1951 to 30 June 1952
59 years
9.
From 1 July 1952 to 31 December 1953
59 years and 6 months
(5)	A woman born on or after 1 January 1954 reaches pension age when she turns 60.
5QB Pension age for persons other than veterans
(1)	This section deals with the pension age for persons other than veterans.
Men
(2)	A man born during the period specified in column 2 of an item in the following table reaches pension age when he turns the age specified in column 3 of that item.
Table—Pension age for men
Column 1
Item
Column 2
Period during which man was born
Column 3
Pension age
1
On or before 30 June 1952
65 years
2
1 July 1952 to 31 December 1953
65 years and 6 months
3
1 January 1954 to 30 June 1955
66 years
4
1 July 1955 to 31 December 1956
66 years and 6 months
5
On or after 1 January 1957
67 years
Women
(3)	A woman born before 1 July 1935 reaches pension age when she turns 60 years.
(4)	A woman born within the period specified in column 2 of an item in the following Table reaches pension age when she turns the age specified in column 3 of that item.
Table
Column 1
Item no.
Column 2
Period within which woman was born (both dates inclusive)
Column 3
Pension age
1.
From 1 July 1935 to 31 December 1936
60 years and 6 months
2.
From 1 January 1937 to 30 June 1938
61 years
3.
From 1 July 1938 to 31 December 1939
61 years and 6 months
4.
From 1 January 1940 to 30 June 1941
62 years
5.
From 1 July 1941 to 31 December 1942
62 years and 6 months
6.
From 1 January 1943 to 30 June 1944
63 years
7.
From 1 July 1944 to 31 December 1945
63 years and 6 months
8.
From 1 January 1946 to 30 June 1947
64 years
9.
From 1 July 1947 to 31 December 1948
64 years and 6 months
(5)	A woman born during the period specified in column 2 of an item in the following table reaches pension age when she turns the age specified in column 3 of that item.
Table—Pension age for women
Column 1
Item
Column 2
Period during which woman was born
Column 3
Pension age
1
1 January 1949 to 30 June 1952
65 years
2
1 July 1952 to 31 December 1953
65 years and 6 months
3
1 January 1954 to 30 June 1955
66 years
4
1 July 1955 to 31 December 1956
66 years and 6 months
5
On or after 1 January 1957
67 years
5R Determinations having interpretative effect
Continuous full-time service determination; member of unit of Defence Force determination
(1)	The Minister may, by notice in writing published in the Gazette, make, in respect of a person, or of persons included in a class of persons, specified in the notice, all or any of the following determinations:
(a)	a determination that this Act, or specified provisions of this Act, are to apply to and in relation to the person, or a person included in that class of persons, as if he or she was, while he or she was rendering service of a kind specified in the notice (in this subsection referred to as relevant service), a member of the Defence Force who was rendering continuous full-time service;
(b)	a determination that this Act, or specified provisions of this Act, are to apply to and in relation to the person (being a member of the Defence Force), or a person included in that class of persons (being members of the Defence Force), as if he or she was, while he or she was rendering relevant service, rendering continuous full-time service;
(c)	a determination that this Act, or specified provisions of this Act, are to apply to and in relation to the person, or a person included in that class of persons, as if he or she was, while he or she was rendering relevant service, a member of a specified unit of the Defence Force;
and, if the Minister does so, this Act applies, or the specified provisions of this Act apply, as the case may be, accordingly.
Note:	For continuous full-time service and member of a unit of the Defence Force see subsection 5C(1).
Allied veteran determination
(2)	If a person who is a claimant for an age service pension or an invalidity service pension satisfies the Commission:
(a)	that the person had been appointed or enlisted as a member of the forces or services of:
(i)	an allied country, being forces or services of a kind referred to in the definition of defence force established by an allied country; or
(ii)	the government-in-exile of an allied country, being forces or services of a kind referred to in subsection 5C(3); and
(b)	that those forces or services were raised and operated in such a manner that the members of those forces and services:
(i)	were formally appointed to, or enlisted in, those forces or services; and
(ii)	were subject to the rules and conventions of warfare; and
(c)	that the person was not required, as such a member, to wear a uniform or insignia distinguishing the person as a member of those forces or services or to carry arms at all or to carry arms openly; and
(d)	that it would have been unreasonable, having regard to the conditions existing, at the time the person served in those forces or services, in the parts of that country in which the person so could serve, for the person to have been required to wear a uniform or insignia or to carry arms or to carry arms openly;
the Commission must determine that the person is, for the purposes of the definition of allied veteran in subsection 5C(1) to be treated as a person who has been appointed or enlisted as a member of the defence force established by that allied country or that government-in-exile.
Person may be treated as not being a member of a couple
(3)	The Commission may determine, for any special reason, that a person who is a member of a couple is not to be treated as a member of a couple for the purposes of this Act.
Note:	For member of a couple see subsection 5E(2).
(4)	The determination must be in writing.
Illness separated couple determination
(5)	If the Commission is satisfied that:
(a)	2 people are members of a couple; and
(b)	they are unable to live together in their home as a result of the illness or infirmity of either or both of them; and
(c)	because of that inability to live together, their living expenses are, or are likely to be greater than they would otherwise be; and
(d)	that inability is likely to continue indefinitely;
the Commission may make a written determination that the 2 people are members of an illness separated couple for the purposes of this Act.
Respite care couple determination
(6)	If the Commission is satisfied that:
(a)	2 people are members of a couple; and
(b)	one of the members of the couple is in respite care; and
(c)	the member who is in respite care has remained, or is likely to remain, in that care for at least 14 consecutive days;
the Commission may make a written determination that the 2 people are members of a respite care couple for the purposes of this Act.
Note:	For in respite care, see subsection 5NC(8).
(7)	A determination under subsection (6) takes effect from the day specified by the Commission in the determination, being a day not earlier than 3 months before the Commission is notified that the person is in respite care.
Remote area determination—current or future absence from remote area
(11)	If the Commission is satisfied that:
(a)	a person’s age or invalidity service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment includes an amount of remote area allowance; and
(b)	the person’s remote area allowance includes an amount for an FTB child or a regular care child; and
(d)	the absence is, or is likely to be, longer than 8 weeks; and
(e)	the absence is due to special circumstances (for example, the person’s medical treatment or the person’s attendance at a rehabilitation or training course);
the Commission may make a written determination that, despite that absence, the person’s rate of pension, income support supplement or veteran payment continues to include remote area allowance for the period specified in the determination while the person has an FTB child, or a regular care child, (as the case requires).
Note 1:	For an FTB child and a regular care child see subsection 5F(1).
Note 2:	A person whose absence from a remote area is longer than 8 weeks would not normally continue to be entitled to remote area allowance (see subsection 5Q(2)).
Remote area determination—past absence from remote area
(12)	If the Commission is satisfied that, in relation to a period:
(a)	a person is receiving an age or invalidity service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment; and
(b)	the person’s usual place of residence is in a remote area; and
(c)	because the person is absent from the remote area for longer than 8 weeks, the person’s rate of service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment ceases to include an amount by way of remote area allowance; and
(d)	immediately before the person’s rate ceases to include remote area allowance, the remote area allowance includes an amount for an FTB child or a regular care child;
the Commission may make a written determination that, despite that absence, the person’s rate of pension, income support supplement or veteran payment continues to include remote area allowance for the period specified in the determination while the person has an FTB child, or a regular care child, (as the case requires).
Note 1:	For an FTB child and a regular care child see subsection 5F(1).
Note 2:	A person whose absence from a remote area is longer than 8 weeks would not normally continue to be entitled to remote area allowance (see subsection 5Q(2)).
(13)	The period specified by the Commission in a determination under subsection (12) must not commence earlier than 3 months before the Commission is notified that the person is absent from the remote area.
Sale leaseback agreement determination
(14)	The Commission may determine that an agreement is a sale leaseback agreement if the Commission is satisfied that the agreement is substantially similar in its effect to an agreement referred to in subsection 5MB(2).
(15)	The determination must be in writing.
5T Lodgment of claims, applications, requests and documents
(1)	This section regulates the lodgment of all claims, applications, requests or other documents under this Act.
(2)	For the purposes of this Act, a claim, application, request or other document, other than a claim, application, request or other document that is approved by the Commission for electronic lodgment and that is transmitted electronically:
(a)	is taken to have been lodged at an office of the Department in Australia only if the claim, application, request or other document is:
(i)	lodged at a place approved by the Commission for the purposes of this subsection; or
(ii)	delivered to a person approved by the Commission for the purposes of this subsection; and
(b)	is taken to have been so lodged on the day on which it is received at that place or delivered to that person.
(3)	For the purposes of this Act, a claim, application, request or other document that is approved by the Commission for electronic lodgment and that is transmitted electronically:
(a)	is taken to have been lodged at an office of the Department in Australia only if the claim, application, request or document is transmitted electronically:
(i)	in a manner approved by the Commission for the purposes of this subsection; and
(ii)	to an electronic address approved by the Commission for the purposes of this subsection;
in relation to claims, applications, requests or documents of that kind; and
(b)	is taken to have been so lodged on the day on which it is so received at that electronic address.
(4)	Claims, applications, requests and other documents transmitted electronically other than in a manner approved by the Commission or to an electronic address other than an electronic address approved by the Commission are not to be treated as having been validly lodged.
(5)	The Commission may approve a place within or outside Australia for the purposes of subparagraph (2)(a)(i).
(6)	For the purposes of this Act, a claim, application, request or other like document is taken to have been made on the day on which, under subsection (2) or (3), it is taken to have been lodged at an office of the Department in Australia.
(7)	For the purposes of this Act, a notice or like document is taken to have been given on the day on which, under subsection (2) or (3), it is taken to have been lodged at an office of the Department in Australia.
(8)	If any provision of this Act requires any material to be lodged in support of a claim, application, request or other document, that supporting material:
(a)	unless paragraph (b) applies—may be lodged in accordance with this section in the same manner as the claim, application, request or other document to which it relates; and
(b)	if the supporting material is not appropriate to be lodged in the same manner as the claim, application, request or other document to which it relates—may be lodged in such other manner contemplated by this section as the Commission approves.
5U Notes
For the purposes of this Act, a Note is taken to be part of:
(a)	if the Note immediately follows a section that does not contain subsections—the section; or
(b)	if the Note immediately follows a subsection—the subsection; or
(c)	if the Note immediately follows a point in a Rate Calculator—the point; or
(d)	if the Note immediately follows a Step in a Method statement and is aligned with the text of the Step—the Step; or
(e)	if the Note immediately follows a Table—the Table; or
(f)	if the Note immediately follows a paragraph and is aligned with the text of the paragraph—the paragraph.
6 Operational service—general outline
Sections 6A to 6F deal with operational service as set out in the following table:
Operational service
Item
Section number
Type of operational service
1
6A
Operational service—world wars
2
6B
Operational service—Australian mariners
3
6C
Operational service—post World War 2 service in operational areas
4
6D
Operational service—other post World War 2 service
4A
6DA
Operational service—minesweeping and bomb/mine clearance service
4B
6DB
Operational service—service on submarine special operations
5
6E
Operational service—Korean demilitarised zone and Vietnam
6
6F
Operational service—warlike and non-warlike service
6A Operational service—world wars
(1)	Subject to subsection (3), a person referred to in column 2 of an item in the following table is taken to have been rendering operational service during any period during which the person was rendering continuous full-time service of a kind referred to in column 3 of that item.
Operational service
Item
Person
Nature of service
1
A member of the Defence Force
(a) continuous full-time service outside Australia during a war to which this Act applies
(b) continuous full-time service for a period of at least 3 months in that part of the Northern Territory that is north of the parallel 14 degrees 30 minutes south latitude (including any of the islands adjoining the Northern Territory) between 19 February 1942 and 12 November 1943 (both dates inclusive)
(c) continuous full-time service during a war to which this Act applies rendered within Australia immediately before, or immediately after, a period of continuous full-time service of the kind referred to in paragraph (a) or (b)
(d) continuous full-time service rendered within Australia during World War 2 in such circumstances that the service should, in the opinion of the Commission, be treated as service in actual combat against the enemy
2
A member of the Defence Force who enlisted in the Defence Force while living on a Torres Strait Island
(a) continuous full-time service for a period of at least 3 months on that island between 14 March 1942 and 18 June 1943 (both dates inclusive)
(b) continuous full-time service during a war to which this Act applies rendered within Australia immediately before, or immediately after, a period of continuous full-time service of the kind referred to in paragraph (a)
3
A member of the naval, military or air forces of a Commonwealth country or of an allied country who was domiciled in Australia or an external Territory immediately before his or her appointment or enlistment in those forces
Continuous full-time service during a war to which this Act applies rendered:
(a) outside that country; or
(b) within that country but in such circumstances that the service should, in the opinion of the Commission, be treated as service in actual combat against the enemy
Note:	Section 11B may affect a person’s domicile immediately before appointment or enlistment.
(2)	A person referred to in column 2 of an item in the following table is taken to have been rendering operational service during the period, or at the time, specified in column 3 of that item.
Operational service
Item
Person
Relevant period or time
1
A person who was, during a war to which this Act applies, employed by the Commonwealth on a special mission outside Australia
The period during which the person was so employed by the Commonwealth
2
An eligible civilian who was killed, during the invasion of the Territory of Papua or the Territory of New Guinea during World War 2, as a result of action by the enemy
The time of the event as a result of which the person was killed
3
An eligible civilian who was detained by the enemy during World War 2
The period during which the person was so detained
4
A person who, while rendering continuous full-time service as a member of the Defence Force within Australia during World War 2, was injured, or contracted a disease, as a result of enemy action
The time of the event as a result of which the person was injured or contracted the disease
(3)	Any continuous full-time service that was rendered during World War 2 by a member of the Defence Force (other than a member of the Interim Forces) on or after the cut off date for the member is not taken to be operational service.
(4)	For the purposes of subsection (3), the cut off date for a member of the Defence Force is the date applicable to the member in accordance with the following table:
Cut off date
Item
Member
Date
1
A member who was appointed or enlisted for war service in any part of the Defence Force that was raised during World War 2 for war service, or solely for service during that war or during that war and a definite period immediately following that war
1 July 1951
2
A member who was appointed or enlisted in the Citizen Forces and was called up for continuous full-time service for the duration of, or directly in connection with, World War 2
1 July 1951
3
A member who served in the British Commonwealth Occupation Force in Japan
1 July 1951, or the day on which the member arrived back in Australia on the completion of his or her service in that Force, whichever is the earlier
4
Any other member
3 January 1949
6B Operational service—Australian mariners
(1)	A person is taken to have been rendering operational service during:
(a)	any period of employment outside Australia as an Australian mariner on a ship; or
(b)	any period of employment within Australia as an Australian mariner on a ship if that period of employment ended immediately before, or started immediately after, the period of employment referred to in paragraph (a).
(2)	A person who, while employed within Australia as an Australian mariner on a ship, was injured, or contracted a disease, as a result of enemy action is taken to have been rendering operational service at the time of the event as a result of which the person was injured or contracted the disease.
(3)	A person who was employed within Australia as an Australian mariner on a ship in such circumstances that the employment should, in the opinion of the Commission, be treated as employment in actual combat against the enemy is taken to have been rendering operational service while the person was so employed.
(4)	Without limiting subsection (1), a person is taken to have been employed outside Australia as an Australian mariner on a ship in each of the following circumstances:
(a)	at any time when the person was at a place outside Australia on leave from the ship while the ship was at a port outside Australia;
(b)	at any time when the person was outside Australia while on his or her way to take up employment as an Australian mariner on a ship;
(c)	while the person was awaiting return to Australia from employment as an Australian mariner on a ship;
(d)	while the person was returning to Australia from employment as an Australian mariner on a ship.
(5)	For the purposes of this section, if a person was employed as an Australian mariner on a ship undertaking a voyage for the purpose of going from a place within Australia to another place within Australia, the person is taken to have been employed within Australia during the whole of the voyage.
(6)	In this section:
Australia does not include an external territory.
6C Operational service—post World War 2 service in operational areas
(1)	Subject to this section, a member of the Defence Force who has rendered continuous full-time service in an operational area as:
(a)	a member who was allotted for duty in that area; or
(b)	a member of a unit of the Defence Force that was allotted for duty in that area;
is taken to have been rendering operational service in the operational area while the member was so rendering continuous full-time service.
(2)	A member of the naval, military or air forces of a Commonwealth country or of an allied country who:
(a)	was domiciled in Australia or an external Territory immediately before his or her appointment or enlistment in those forces; and
(b)	has rendered continuous full-time service in an operational area;
is taken to have been rendering operational service in the operational area while the member was so rendering continuous full-time service.
Note:	Section 11B may affect a person’s domicile immediately before appointment or enlistment.
(3)	For the purposes of subsection (1), a member of the Defence Force is, subject to subsection (4), taken to have rendered continuous full-time service in an operational area during the period commencing on:
(a)	if the member was in Australia on the day (relevant day) from which the member, or the unit of the member, was allotted for duty in that area—on the day on which the member left the last port of call in Australia for that service; or
(b)	if the member was outside Australia on the relevant day—on that day;
and ending at the end of:
(c)	if the member, or the unit of the member, ceased to be allotted for duty—the day from which the member, or the unit, ceased to be allotted for duty; or
(d)	if the member, or the unit of the member, was assigned for duty from the operational area to another area outside Australia (not being an operational area)—the day from which the member, or the unit, was assigned to that other area, or the day on which the member, or the unit, arrived at that other area, whichever is the later; or
(e)	in any other case—the day on which the member arrived at the first port of call in Australia on returning from operational service.
(4)	If, while rendering continuous full-time service in an operational area, a member of the Defence Force has:
(a)	returned to Australia in accordance with the Rest and Recuperation arrangements of the naval, military or air forces; or
(b)	returned to Australia on emergency or other leave granted on compassionate grounds; or
(c)	returned to Australia on duty; or
(d)	returned to Australia for the purpose of receiving medical or surgical treatment as directed by the medical authorities of the Defence Force;
only so much of the period of service of the member within Australia after his or her return and while the member:
(e)	continued to be allotted for duty in an operational area; or
(f)	continued to be a member of a unit of the Defence Force allotted for duty in an operational area;
as does not exceed 14 days is taken, for the purposes of subsection (1), to be a period when the member was rendering continuous full-time service in the operational area.
6D Operational service—other post World War 2 service
(1)	This section applies to a member of the Defence Force who, or a member of a unit of the Defence Force that:
(a)	was assigned for service:
(i)	in Singapore at any time during the period from and including 29 June 1950 to and including 31 August 1957; or
(ii)	in Japan at any time during the period from and including 28 April 1952 to and including 19 April 1956; or
(iii)	in North East Thailand (including Ubon) at any time during the period from and including 28 July 1962 to and including 24 June 1965; or
(iv)	in North East Thailand (not including Ubon) at any time during the period from and including 31 May 1962 to and including 27 July 1962; or
(b)	was, at any time during the period from and including 1 August 1960 and including 27 May 1963, in the area comprising the territory of Singapore and the country then known as the Federation of Malaya;
but so applies only if the member, or the unit of the member, is included in a written instrument issued by the Defence Force for use by the Commission in determining a person’s eligibility for entitlements under this Act.
Note:	Service in Ubon in Thailand between 31 May 1962 and 27 July 1962 is taken to be operational service because of section 6C and item 3A in Schedule 2.
(2)	A person to whom this section applies is taken to have been rendering operational service during any period during which he or she was rendering continuous full-time service as:
(a)	a member of the Defence Force; or
(b)	a member of a unit of the Defence Force;
while the person was in the area described in paragraph (1)(a) or attached to the Far East Strategic Reserve (as the case may be).
(3)	For the purposes of subsection (2), the operational service of a person to whom this section applies:
(a)	is taken to have started:
(i)	if the person was in Australia on the day (relevant day) from which his or her unit was assigned for service as described in paragraph (1)(a) or attached to the Far East Strategic Reserve (as the case may be)—on the day on which the member left the last port of call in Australia for that service; or
(ii)	if the person was outside Australia on the relevant day—on that day; and
(b)	is taken to have ended:
(i)	if the member was assigned for service in another country or area outside Australia (not being an operational area)—the day from which the member was assigned to that other country or area, or the day on which the member arrived at that other area, whichever is the later; or
(ii)	in any other case—the day on which the member arrived at the first port of call in Australia on returning from operational service.
6DA Operational service—minesweeping and bomb/mine clearance service
A member of the Defence Force is taken to have been rendering operational service during any period of service in respect of which the member has been awarded, or has become eligible to be awarded, the Naval General Service Medal or the General Service Medal (Army and Royal Air Force) with the Minesweeping 1945-51 Clasp, the Bomb-Mine Clearance 1945-53 Clasp, the Bomb and Mine Clearance 1945-49 Clasp or the Bomb and Mine Clearance 1945-56 Clasp.
6DB Operational service—service on submarine special operations
A member of the Defence Force for whom the following are satisfied:
(a)	the member has rendered continuous full-time service on a submarine for a period that started on or after 1 January 1978 and ended on or before the end of 12 May 1997;
(b)	the member has rendered continuous full-time service on submarine special operations (the special service) at any time in the period beginning on 1 January 1978 and ending at the end of 12 May 1997;
(c)	the member:
(i)	has been awarded the Australian Service Medal with Clasp “SPECIAL OPS” for the special service; or
(ii)	has become eligible for that award for the special service; or
(iii)	would have been eligible for that award for the special service if the member had not already been awarded it for other service;
is taken to have been rendering operational service during each period covered by paragraph (a).
6E Operational service—Korean demilitarised zone and Vietnam
A member of the Defence Force who was assigned for service:
(a)	in the demilitarised zone between North Korea and South Korea after 18 April 1956; or
(b)	on HMA Ship Vampire or Quickmatch in Vietnam during the period from and including 25 January 1962 to and including 29 January 1962;
is taken to have been rendering operational service while he or she was so rendering continuous full-time service in that zone or in Vietnam (as the case may be) during the period in which he or she was so assigned for service.
6F Operational service—warlike and non-warlike service
A member of the Defence Force is taken to have been rendering operational service during any period of warlike service or non-warlike service of the member.
7 Eligible war service
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), for the purposes of this Act:
(a)	a person who has rendered operational service shall be taken to have been rendering eligible war service while the person was rendering operational service; and
(b)	a person who has rendered continuous full-time service (not being operational service) as a member of the Defence Force during World War 1 shall be taken to have been rendering eligible war service while the person was so rendering continuous full-time service; and
(c)	a person who has rendered continuous full-time service (not being operational service) as a member of the Defence Force during World War 2, being service that commenced before 1 July 1947, shall be taken to have been rendering eligible war service while the person was so rendering continuous full-time service; and
(d)	a person who rendered continuous full-time service (not being operational service) as a member of the Interim Forces during World War 2 on or after 1 July 1947 shall be taken to have been rendering eligible war service while the person was so rendering continuous full-time service; and
(e)	a person who was employed on a ship as an Australian mariner is taken to have been rendering eligible war service:
(i)	if part of that employment was operational service—for the part of that employment that was not operational service; or
(ii)	in any other case—while the person was so employed.
Note 1:	For World War 1 and World War 2 see subsection 5B(1).
Note 2:	For operational service see sections 6 to 6F.
Note 3:	For Australian mariner, continuous full-time service, member of the Defence Force and member of the Interim Forces see subsection 5C(1).
Note 4:	Subsections (3) and (4) contain information that is relevant to paragraph (e).
(2)	A person who rendered continuous full-time service in the Defence Force during World War 2:
(a)	if the person was appointed or enlisted for war service in any part of the Defence Force that was raised during World War 2 for war service or solely for service in time of that war or during that time and a definite time thereafter—on or after 1 July 1951;
(b)	if the person was appointed or enlisted in the Citizen Forces and was called up for continuous full-time service for the duration of, or directly in connection with, World War 2—on or after 1 July 1951; or
(c)	if the person was not appointed or enlisted as set out in paragraph (a) or (b)—on or after 3 January 1949;
shall not be taken, by virtue of paragraph (1)(c), to have been rendering eligible war service while the person was so rendering continuous full-time service.
(3)	Without limiting paragraph (1)(e), a person is taken to be employed on a ship as an Australian mariner while the person was at a place (being a place that is in Australia but is not on land in Australia) in the course of proceeding to employment on a ship as an Australian mariner.
(4)	For the purposes of subsection (3), Australia does not include an external territory.
7A Qualifying service
(1)	For the purposes of Parts III and VA and sections 85 and 118V, a person has rendered qualifying service:
(a)	if the person has, as a member of the Defence Force:
(i)	rendered service, during a period of hostilities specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of the definition of period of hostilities in subsection 5B(1), at sea, in the field or in the air in naval, military or aerial operations against the enemy in an area, or on an aircraft or ship of war, at a time when the person incurred danger from hostile forces of the enemy in that area or on that aircraft or ship; or
(ii)	rendered service after 29 October 1945 in respect of which the person has been awarded, or has become eligible to be awarded, the Naval General Service Medal or the General Service Medal (Army and Royal Air Force) with the Minesweeping 1945-51 Clasp, the Bomb-Mine Clearance 1945-53 Clasp, the Bomb and Mine Clearance 1945-49 Clasp or the Bomb and Mine Clearance 1945-56 Clasp; or
(iii)	rendered service outside Australia in an area described in column 1 of Schedule 2 during the period specified in column 2 of that Schedule opposite to that description, as a member of a unit of the Defence Force that was allotted for duty, or as a person who was allotted for duty, in that area; or
(iv)	rendered warlike service; or
(v)	rendered continuous full-time service on submarine special operations, at some time in the period starting on 1 January 1978 and ending at the end of 12 May 1997, for which the person has been awarded, or has become eligible to be awarded, the Australian Service Medal with Clasp “SPECIAL OPS”; or
(vi)	rendered continuous full-time service on submarine special operations, at some time in the period starting on 1 January 1978 and ending at the end of 12 May 1997, for which the person would have been eligible to be awarded the Australian Service Medal with Clasp “SPECIAL OPS” if the person had not already been awarded it for other service; or
(b)	if, during a period of hostilities, the person has, as a member of the defence force established by a Commonwealth country, rendered, in connection with war or war-like operations in which the Naval, Military or Air Forces of Australia were engaged:
(i)	service, in an area outside that country, at a time when the person incurred danger from hostile forces of the enemy in that area; or
(ii)	service within that country, being service in respect of which the person has been awarded, or has become eligible to be awarded, a campaign medal; or
(c)	if the person is an allied veteran who, during a period of hostilities, has, as a member of the defence force established by an allied country, rendered, in connection with a war, or war-like operations, in which the Naval, Military or Air Forces of Australia were engaged, service in an area within or outside the country in which the person enlisted in those forces, being service in respect of which the person incurred danger from hostile forces of the enemy; or
(d)	if the person was, during a period of hostilities specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of the definition of period of hostilities in subsection 5B(1), employed by the Commonwealth on a special mission outside Australia, and, in the course of carrying out that mission, incurred danger from hostile forces of the enemy; or
(e)	if the person is an eligible civilian within the meaning of subsection 5C(1) who was, during a period of hostilities specified in paragraph (b) of the definition of period of hostilities in subsection 5B(1), detained by the enemy; or
(f)	if the person is a person in respect of whom a pension is payable in pursuance of subsection 13(6); or
(g)	if the person is an Australian mariner as defined by subsection 5C(1) who, in the course of:
(i)	any service rendered by the person in employment of a kind specified in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (e) or (g) of that definition; or
(ii)	any service rendered by the person as a pilot referred to in paragraph (d) of that definition; or
(iii)	any service rendered by the person as a member or employee of the Commonwealth Salvage Board;
was on a ship or in an area at a time when the person incurred danger from hostile forces of the enemy on the ship or in the area, as the case may be; or
(h)	if the person is an allied mariner who, in the course of any service rendered by the person in employment of a kind to which paragraphs (a) and (b) of the definition of allied mariner in subsection 5C(1) applies:
(i)	was detained by the enemy; or
(ii)	was in an area service in which would, if the person had been a member of the Defence Force, have entitled the person to the award of a campaign medal and incurred, while he or she was in that area, danger from hostile forces of the enemy.
Note 1:	For period of hostilities see subsection 5B(1) and for allotted for duty in an operational area see subsection 5B(2).
Note 2:	For allied mariner, allied veteran, Australian mariner, defence force established by a Commonwealth country, defence force established by an allied country, eligible civilian, enemy, member of a unit of the Defence Force, member of the Defence Force and special mission see subsection 5C(1).
(2)	In subparagraphs (1)(b)(ii) and (1)(h)(ii):
campaign medal, in relation to service during the period of World War 2 from its commencement to and including 29 October 1945, means:
(a)	any of the following medals:
(i)	1939-45 Star;
(ii)	Atlantic Star;
(iii)	Air Crew Europe Star;
(iv)	Africa Star;
(v)	Pacific Star;
(vi)	Burma Star;
(vii)	Italy Star;
(viii)	France and Germany Star; or
(b)	any other medal declared by the regulations to be a campaign medal in relation to service during that period.
8 War-caused death
(1)	Subject to this section and section 9A, for the purposes of this Act, the death of a veteran shall be taken to have been war-caused if:
(a)	the death of the veteran resulted from an occurrence that happened while the veteran was rendering operational service;
(b)	the death of the veteran arose out of, or was attributable to, any eligible war service rendered by the veteran;
(c)	the death of the veteran resulted from an accident that occurred while the veteran was travelling, while rendering eligible war service but otherwise than in the course of duty, on a journey to a place for the purpose of performing duty or away from a place of duty upon having ceased to perform duty;
(d)	in the opinion of the Commission, the death of the veteran was due to an accident that would not have occurred, or to a disease that would not have been contracted, but for his or her having rendered eligible war service or but for changes in the veteran’s environment consequent upon his or her having rendered eligible war service; or
(e)	the injury or disease from which the veteran died:
(i)	was suffered or contracted while the veteran was rendering eligible war service, but did not arise out of that service; or
(ii)	was suffered or contracted before the commencement of the period, or last period, of eligible war service rendered by the veteran, but not while the veteran was rendering eligible war service;
and, in the opinion of the Commission, the injury or disease was contributed to in a material degree by, or was aggravated by, any eligible war service rendered by the veteran, being service rendered after the veteran suffered that injury or contracted that disease; or
(f)	the injury or disease from which the veteran died is an injury or disease that has been determined in accordance with section 9 to have been a war-caused injury or a war-caused disease, as the case may be;
Note:	The effect of paragraph (f) is that, if the veteran has died from an injury or disease that has already been determined by the Commission to be war-caused, the death is to be taken to have been war-caused. Accordingly the Commission is not required to relate the death to eligible war service rendered by the veteran and sections 120A and 120B do not apply.
but not otherwise.
(2)	Paragraph (1)(a), (b), (c) or (d) does not apply to the death of a veteran if the death:
(a)	resulted from the veteran’s serious default or wilful act; or
(b)	arose from:
(i)	a serious breach of discipline committed by the veteran; or
(ii)	an occurrence that happened while the veteran was committing a serious breach of discipline.
(3)	Subsection (1) does not apply to the death of a veteran if the death of the veteran resulted from the serious default or wilful act of the veteran that happened after the veteran ceased, or last ceased, to render eligible war service.
(4)	Paragraph (1)(c) does not apply:
(a)	to an accident that occurred while the veteran was travelling on a journey from the veteran’s place of duty in a case where the veteran had delayed commencing the journey for a substantial time after he or she ceased to perform duty at that place (otherwise than for a reason connected with the performance of the veteran’s duties) unless, in the circumstances of the particular case, the nature of the risk of sustaining an injury, or contracting a disease, was not substantially changed, and the extent of that risk was not substantially increased, by that delay or by anything that happened during that delay;
(b)	to an accident that occurred while the veteran was travelling on a journey, or a part of a journey, by a route that was not reasonably direct having regard to the means of transport used unless:
(i)	the journey, or that part of the journey, was made by that route for a reason connected with the performance of the veteran’s duties; or
(ii)	in the circumstances of the particular case, the nature of the risk of sustaining an injury, or contracting a disease, was not substantially changed, and the extent of that risk was not substantially increased, by reason that the journey, or that part of the journey, was made by that route; or
(c)	to an accident that occurred while the veteran was travelling on a part of a journey made after a substantial interruption of the journey, being an interruption made for a reason unconnected with the performance of the veteran’s duties, unless, in the circumstances of the particular case, the nature of the risk referred to in subparagraph (b)(ii) was not substantially changed, and the extent of that risk was not substantially increased, by reason of that interruption.
(5)	Paragraph (1)(e) does not apply to the death of a veteran from an injury or disease, being injury or disease that has been contributed to in a material degree by, or aggravated by, eligible war service rendered by the veteran, unless the veteran has rendered operational service or the period of the eligible war service rendered by the veteran that so contributed to the injury or disease, or by which the injury or disease was aggravated, was 6 months or longer.
(6)	Despite subsection (1), the death of a veteran is taken not to have been war-caused if the veteran’s death is related to the veteran’s eligible war service only because:
(a)	in the case of a veteran who had not used tobacco products before 1 January 1998—the veteran used tobacco products after 31 December 1997; or
(b)	in the case of a veteran who had used tobacco products before 1 January 1998—the veteran increased his or her use of tobacco products after 31 December 1997.
9 War-caused injuries or diseases
(1)	Subject to this section and section 9A, for the purposes of this Act, an injury suffered by a veteran shall be taken to be a war-caused injury, or a disease contracted by a veteran shall be taken to be a war-caused disease, if:
(a)	the injury suffered, or disease contracted, by the veteran resulted from an occurrence that happened while the veteran was rendering operational service;
(b)	the injury suffered, or disease contracted, by the veteran arose out of, or was attributable to, any eligible war service rendered by the veteran;
(c)	the injury suffered, or disease contracted, by the veteran resulted from an accident that occurred while the veteran was travelling, while rendering eligible war service but otherwise than in the course of duty, on a journey to a place for the purpose of performing duty or away from a place of duty upon having ceased to perform duty;
(d)	the injury suffered, or disease contracted, by the veteran is to be deemed by subsection (2) to be a war-caused injury or a war-caused disease;
(e)	the injury suffered, or disease contracted, by the veteran:
(i)	was suffered or contracted while the veteran was rendering eligible war service, but did not arise out of that service; or
(ii)	was suffered or contracted before the commencement of the period, or last period, of eligible war service rendered by the veteran, but not while the veteran was rendering eligible war service;
and, in the opinion of the Commission, the injury or disease was contributed to in a material degree by, or was aggravated by, any eligible war service rendered by the veteran, being service rendered after the veteran suffered that injury or contracted that disease;
but not otherwise.
(2)	For the purposes of this Act, where any incapacity of a veteran was, in the opinion of the Commission, due to an accident that would not have occurred, or due to a disease that would not have been contracted, but for his or her having rendered eligible war service or but for changes in the veteran’s environment consequent upon his or her having rendered eligible war service:
(a)	if that incapacity was due to an accident—that incapacity shall be deemed to have arisen out of the injury suffered by the veteran as a result of the accident and the injury so suffered shall be deemed to be a war-caused injury suffered by the veteran; or
(b)	if the incapacity was due to a disease—the incapacity shall be deemed to have arisen out of that disease and that disease shall be deemed to be a war-caused disease contracted by the veteran.
(3)	Paragraph (1)(a), (b), (c) or (d) does not apply to an injury suffered, or disease contracted, by a veteran if the injury or disease:
(a)	resulted from the veteran’s serious default or wilful act; or
(b)	arose from:
(i)	a serious breach of discipline committed by the veteran; or
(ii)	an occurrence that happened while the veteran was committing a serious breach of discipline.
(4)	Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to an injury suffered, or disease contracted, by a veteran if the incapacity of the veteran from that injury or disease resulted from the serious default or wilful act of the veteran that happened after the veteran ceased, or last ceased, to render eligible war service.
(5)	Paragraph (1)(c) does not apply:
(a)	to an accident that occurred while the veteran was travelling on a journey from the veteran’s place of work in a case where the veteran had delayed commencing the journey for a substantial period after he or she ceased to perform duty at that place (otherwise than for a reason connected with the performance of the veteran’s duties) unless, in the circumstances of the particular case, the nature of the risk of sustaining an injury, or contracting a disease, was not substantially changed, and the extent of that risk was not substantially increased, by that delay or by anything that happened during that delay;
(b)	to an accident that occurred while the veteran was travelling on a journey, or a part of a journey, by a route that was not reasonably direct having regard to the means of transport used, unless:
(i)	the journey, or that part of the journey, was made by that route for a reason connected with the performance of the veteran’s duty; or
(ii)	in the circumstances of the particular case, the nature of the risk of sustaining an injury, or contracting a disease, was not substantially changed, and the extent of the risk was not substantially increased, by reason that the journey, or that part of the journey, was made by that route; or
(c)	to an accident that occurred while the veteran was travelling on a part of a journey made after a substantial interruption of the journey, being an interruption made for a reason unconnected with the performance of the veteran’s duties, unless, in the circumstances of the particular case, the nature of the risk referred to in subparagraph (b)(ii) was not substantially changed, and the extent of that risk was not substantially increased, by reason of that interruption.
(6)	Paragraph (1)(e) does not apply to an injury suffered, or disease contracted, by a veteran (being an injury or disease that has been contributed to in a material degree by, or aggravated by, eligible war service rendered by the veteran):
(a)	if the aggravation of the injury or disease:
(i)	resulted from the veteran’s serious default or wilful act;
(ii)	arose from a serious breach of discipline committed by the veteran; or
(b)	unless the veteran had rendered operational service or the period of eligible war service rendered by the veteran that so contributed to the injury or disease, or by which the injury or disease was aggravated, was 6 months or longer.
(7)	Despite subsection (1), the injury or disease of a veteran is taken not to have been war-caused if that injury or disease is related to the veteran’s eligible war service only because:
(a)	in the case of a veteran who had not used tobacco products before 1 January 1998—the veteran used tobacco products after 31 December 1997; or
(b)	in the case of a veteran who had used tobacco products before 1 January 1998—the veteran increased his or her use of tobacco products after 31 December 1997.
9A Most war-caused injuries, diseases and deaths no longer covered by this Act
(1)	A veteran’s injury, disease or death is taken not to be war-caused if:
(a)	the injury is sustained, the disease is contracted, or the death occurs, on or after the MRCA commencement date; and
(b)	the injury, disease or death either:
(i)	relates to service rendered by the person on or after that date; or
(ii)	relates to service rendered by the person before, and on or after, that date.
Note:	After the MRCA commencement date, compensation is provided under the MRCA (instead of this Act) for such injuries, diseases and deaths.
(3)	To avoid doubt, service is rendered before, and on or after, the MRCA commencement date whether the service spans the commencement date or is rendered during separate periods before and on or after that date.
10 Child of a veteran or other person
(1)	In this Act, a reference to a child of a veteran or of a deceased veteran is a reference to:
(a)	a child of the veteran or an adopted child of the veteran; or
(b)	a child who is a child of the veteran within the meaning of the Family Law Act 1975; or
(c)	any other child who is, or was immediately before the death of the veteran, wholly or substantially dependent on the veteran.
(3)	For the purposes of subsection (1), where a veteran is, under a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory, liable to maintain a child, the child shall be deemed to be wholly or substantially dependent on that veteran.
(4)	In this section, a reference to a veteran shall be read as including a reference to a person who is a member of the Forces, or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, as defined by subsection 68(1).
(5)	In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears, a reference to a child of a person (not being a person who is a veteran or a member referred to in subsection (4)) shall be read as a reference to a person who would, in accordance with subsection (1), be a child of that person if that person were a veteran.
10A Parent of a person
(1)	Without limiting who is a parent of anyone for the purposes of this Act, a person is the parent of another person (other than an adopted child) if the other person is a child of the person within the meaning of the Family Law Act 1975.
(2)	For the purposes of this Act, parent of a person who is an adopted child means an adoptive parent of the person.
11 Dependants
(1)	In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
dependant, in relation to a veteran (including a veteran who has died), means:
(a)	the partner; or
(b)	a non-illness separated spouse; or
(c)	a widow or widower (other than a widow or a widower who marries, re-marries or enters into a de facto relationship); or
(ca)	a reinstated pensioner; or
(d)	a child;
of the veteran.
Note 1:	A veteran may have more than one dependant of the kind referred to in paragraphs (a) to (d) at the same time.
Note 2:	For the meaning of reinstated pensioner see section 11AA.
Note 3:	Subsection (4) affects the meaning of widow in paragraph (c).
Note 4:	Section 11A affects formation of an opinion as to whether 2 people are living together in a de facto relationship.
(2)	Without limiting the generality of subsection (1) in its application to a veteran (including a veteran who has died) who is, or was:
(a)	a descendant of an indigenous inhabitant of the Torres Strait Islands; or
(b)	a male aboriginal native of Australia;
who served during World War 2 in the Defence Force at a rate of pay less than the minimum rate of pay that was prescribed as payable to a male member of the Australian Military Forces and whose services have been terminated by discharge or death, a person whom the Commission, by instrument in writing, determines to be, for the purposes of this section, a person who is dependent on the veteran is a dependant of the veteran.
(3)	In subsection (1), a reference to a veteran shall be read as including a reference to a person who is a member of the Forces, or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, as defined by subsection 68(1).
(4)	In paragraph (1)(c), widow does not include a reinstated pensioner.
Note:	For the meaning of reinstated pensioner see section 11AA.
11AA Reinstated pensioner
In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
reinstated pensioner means a person who the Commission has determined under section 13AG to be a reinstated pensioner.
11A De facto relationships
In forming an opinion for the purposes of this Act whether 2 people are living together in a de facto relationship, regard is to be had to all the circumstances of the relationship including, in particular, the following matters:
(a)	the financial aspects of the relationship, including:
(i)	any joint ownership of real estate or other major assets and any joint liabilities; and
(ii)	any significant pooling of financial resources especially in relation to major financial commitments; and
(iii)	any legal obligations owed by one person in respect of the other person; and
(iv)	the basis of any sharing of day-to-day household expenses;
(b)	the nature of the household, including:
(i)	any joint responsibility for providing care or support of children; and
(ii)	the living arrangements of the people; and
(iii)	the basis on which responsibility for housework is distributed;
(c)	the social aspects of the relationship, including:
(i)	whether the people hold themselves out as being in a de facto relationship with each other; and
(ii)	the assessment of friends and regular associates of the people about the nature of their relationship; and
(iii)	the basis on which the people make plans for, or engage in, joint social activities;
(d)	any sexual relationship between the people;
(e)	the nature of the people’s commitment to each other, including:
(i)	the length of the relationship; and
(ii)	the nature of any companionship and emotional support that the people provide to each other; and
(iii)	whether the people consider that the relationship is likely to continue indefinitely; and
(iv)	whether the people see their relationship as a de facto relationship.
11B Domicile
(1)	A person is taken for the purposes of this Act to have been capable of having an independent domicile at a time before 1 July 1982 if the person had turned 18 at or before that time.
Note:	Subsection 8(1) of the Domicile Act 1982 has a similar effect for a time occurring on or after 1 July 1982.
(2)	Subsection (1) has effect despite any rule of law to the contrary.
Part IA—Operation of this Act on and after date of commencement
12AA No new claims, applications etc. on or after date of commencement
Despite anything else in this Act:
(a)	a claim or application may not be made under any of the following on or after the date of commencement:
(i)	Part II (other than Division 2A);
(ii)	Part IV;
(iii)	section 111 (other than in respect of bereavement payment under section 98AA);
(iv)	a legislative instrument made under section 105 or 106; and
(b)	an instrument may not be made under section 115S (acute support package) on or after that date.
Note 1:	From the date of commencement:
(a)	certain claims and applications that could previously be made under this Act, or under legislative instruments made under this Act, will be able to be made under the MRCA; and
(b)	acute support packages that could previously be granted under this Act will be able to be granted under section 268B of the MRCA.
Note 2:	See also section 89 of the CTPA in relation to certain pending claims and applications.
Part II—Pensions by way of compensation to veterans and their dependants
	Division 1 — Interpretation
12 Interpretation
In this Part, unless the contrary intention appears:
guidance and appeals panel has the same meaning as in the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024.
guidance and appeals panel application has the same meaning as in the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024.
pension means a pension under this Part.
	Division 2 — Eligibility for pensions by way of compensation to veterans and their dependants
13 Eligibility for pensions by way of compensation to veterans and their dependants
(1)	Where:
(a)	the death of a veteran was war-caused; or
(b)	a veteran is incapacitated from a war-caused injury or a war-caused disease;
the Commonwealth is, subject to this Act, liable to pay:
(c)	in the case of the death of the veteran—pensions by way of compensation to the dependants of the veteran; or
(d)	in the case of the incapacity of the veteran—pension by way of compensation to the veteran;
in accordance with this Act.
(2)	Where:
(a)	a veteran has died;
(b)	the death of the veteran was not war-caused; and
(c)	the veteran was, immediately before the veteran’s death:
(i)	a veteran to whom subsection 22(4) or section 23, 24 or 25 applied; or
(ii)	a veteran to whom section 22 applied who was in receipt of a pension the rate of which had been increased by reason that the pension was in respect of an incapacity described in item 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 of the table in section 27;
the Commonwealth is, subject to this Act, liable to pay pensions by way of compensation to the dependants of the veteran in accordance with this Act.
(2A)	If:
(a)	a veteran has died; and
(b)	the veteran’s death was not war-caused; and
(c)	the veteran was a prisoner of war at a time before 1 July 2004 when the veteran was on operational service;
the Commonwealth is, subject to this Act, liable to pay pensions by way of compensation to the dependants of the veteran in accordance with this Act.
(2B)	The date of commencement of a pension payable under subsection (2A) is not to be earlier than 1 January 1993.
(3)	Where a pension in respect of the incapacity of a veteran from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, is granted, after the death of the veteran, as from a date before the death of the veteran, subsection (2) applies as if the veteran had been in receipt of that pension immediately before the veteran died.
(4)	Where:
(a)	a veteran who has rendered operational service has died;
(b)	the death of the veteran was not war-caused;
(c)	the veteran is survived by a child of the veteran; and
(d)	the Commission is satisfied that the child is not being maintained by a parent, adoptive parent or step-parent of the child;
the Commonwealth is, subject to subsection (7) of this section and to the other provisions of this Act, liable to pay pension to that child.
(5)	The Commonwealth is not liable to pay a pension under subsection (1) to a veteran who is a veteran by reason only that he or she has rendered operational service as described in item 3 of the table in subsection 6A(1) or as described in subsection 6C(2) unless the veteran is residing in, and is physically present in, Australia or an external Territory at the time when he or she makes a claim for the grant of the pension in accordance with section 14 or, if the veteran has made 2 or more such claims, at the time when he or she made the first of those claims.
(6)	Where the death of a person who is, or was, a member of the Defence Force, or the incapacity of such a person from injury or disease:
(a)	resulted from an occurrence that happened, or a disease that was contracted, on or after 31 July 1962:
(i)	as a result of action of hostile forces; or
(ii)	while the person was engaged in warlike operations against hostile forces;
being an occurrence that happened, or a disease that was contracted, outside Australia while the person was rendering continuous full-time service as a member of the Defence Force, but otherwise than during any operational service of the person in an operational area; or
(b)	has arisen out of or is attributable to:
(i)	action by hostile forces; or
(ii)	the engagement of the person in warlike operations against hostile forces;
on or after 31 July 1962 outside Australia while the person was rendering continuous full-time service as a member of the Defence Force, but otherwise than during any operational service of the person in an operational area;
the Commonwealth is, subject to subsection (7) of this section and to the other provisions of this Act, liable to pay:
(c)	in the case of the death of the person—pensions to the dependants of the person; or
(d)	in the case of the incapacity of the person—pension to the person;
in accordance with this Act, and this Act, other than subsections (1) to (5), inclusive, of this section, applies to and in relation to the person as if the person were a veteran and the death of the person were war-caused, the injury suffered by the person were a war-caused injury or the disease contracted by the person were a war-caused disease, as the case may be.
Subsection (6) ceases to apply
(6A)	The Commonwealth is not liable, under subsection (6), to pay a pension in respect of a person’s death, or the incapacity of a person, if:
(a)	either:
(i)	the occurrence resulting in the death or incapacity happened on or after the MRCA commencement date; or
(ii)	the disease was contracted on or after the MRCA commencement date; and
(b)	either:
(i)	the occurrence or disease relates to service rendered by the person on or after that date; or
(ii)	the occurrence or disease relates to service rendered by the person before, and on or after, that date (whether the service spans the commencement date or is rendered during separate periods before and on or after that date).
(7)	The Commonwealth is not liable to pay a pension:
(a)	to a dependant of a veteran, being a child of the veteran, under subsection (1), (2) or (2A);
(b)	to a child of a veteran under subsection (4); or
(c)	to a dependant of a person, being a child of the person, under subsection (6);
if the dependant has attained the age of 16 years and payments, by way of a living allowance, are being made in respect of the child:
(d)	by way of youth allowance; or
(e)	under the scheme known as the Assistance for Isolated Children Scheme; or
(f)	under the scheme known as the ABSTUDY scheme; or
(g)	under the scheme known as the Post-Graduate Awards Scheme; or
(h)	under the scheme determined under section 258 of the MRCA (education scheme for certain eligible young persons and other children).
(7A)	The Commonwealth is liable to pay a pension to a reinstated pensioner.
(8)	Where a dependant of a deceased veteran (not being a reinstated pensioner or a child of the veteran) re-marries, marries or enters into a de facto relationship after the death of the veteran and after the commencement of this Act:
(a)	the Commonwealth is not liable to pay a pension to the dependant under this section unless the decision by the Commission, the Board, the Administrative Review Tribunal or the former Administrative Appeals Tribunal, as the case may be, to grant the pension:
(i)	was made before the commencement of this Act; or
(ii)	was or is made after the commencement of this Act upon consideration or re-consideration of a claim for that pension that was duly made (whether before or after the commencement of this Act) before the re-marriage, marriage or entry into the de facto relationship occurred; and
(b)	a decision granting a pension to the dependant under this section made after the commencement of this Act by the Commission, the Board, the Administrative Review Tribunal or the former Administrative Appeals Tribunal after that re-marriage, marriage or entry into the de facto relationship occurred (including a decision granting such a pension as from a date before that re-marriage, marriage or entry into the de facto relationship occurred) is void and of no effect unless the decision was made upon consideration or re-consideration of a claim for that pension made as described in subparagraph (a)(ii).
Note:	For the meaning of reinstated pensioner see section 11AA.
(8A)	Where a dependant of a deceased veteran (not being a reinstated pensioner or a child of the veteran) has re-married or married after the death of the veteran but on or before 28 May 1984:
(a)	the Commonwealth is not liable to pay a pension to the dependant under this section unless the decision by the Commission, the Board or the former Administrative Appeals Tribunal, as the case may be, to grant the pension was made before the commencement of section 7 of the Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1988; and
(b)	a decision granting a pension to the dependant under this section made after the commencement referred to in paragraph (a) by the Commission, the Board or the former Administrative Appeals Tribunal (including a decision granting such a pension as from a date before that commencement) is void and of no effect.
Note:	For the meaning of reinstated pensioner see section 11AA.
(8B)	If:
(a)	a male dependant of a deceased veteran (not being a child of the veteran) has re-married or married after the death of the veteran; and
(b)	the re-marriage or marriage occurred before 22 January 1991;
the Commonwealth is not liable to pay a pension to that dependant under this section.
(9)	Where a person is in receipt of, or is eligible to receive, a pension under this Part as the widow or widower of a deceased veteran, the Commonwealth is not liable to pay another pension to the person under this Part as the widow or widower of another deceased veteran or under Part IV as the widow or widower of a member of the Forces, or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, as defined by subsection 68(1).
(10)	Where a person who is in receipt of, or is eligible to receive, a pension under this Part as the child of a deceased person, being a veteran, would, but for this subsection, become eligible to receive a pension under this Part or Part IV as the child of another deceased person, being a veteran, or a member of the Forces, or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, as defined by subsection 68(1), the Commonwealth is liable to pay a pension to the person under this Part or Part IV as the child of only one of those deceased persons, and, if the rate at which that pension would be payable as the child of one of those deceased persons (in this subsection referred to as the relevant deceased person) is higher than the rate at which that pension would be payable as the child of the other of those deceased persons, then:
(a)	if the relevant deceased person is a veteran—the Commonwealth is liable to pay a pension to the person under this Part as the child of the relevant deceased person; or
(b)	in any other case—the Commonwealth is not liable to pay a pension to the person under this Part.
(11)	In this section (other than in subsections (7A), (8), (8A), (8B), (9) and (10)), a reference to a veteran shall be read as a reference to a person (including a deceased person) who is, because of section 7, taken to have rendered eligible war service.
	Division 2A — Verification determinations for reinstated pensioners
13AA Application for verification determination
A person who wants to be determined by the Commission to be a reinstated pensioner (a verification determination) must make a proper application.
13AB Who may apply
(1)	An application for a verification determination may be made:
(a)	by the person (the applicant) who wants to be determined to be a reinstated pensioner; or
(b)	with the approval of the applicant, by another person on behalf of the applicant.
(2)	If the applicant is unable, by reason of physical or mental incapacity, to approve a person to make the application on his or her behalf, the Commission may approve another person to make the application.
13AC Application for verification determination
An application for a verification determination:
(a)	must be in writing and in accordance with a form approved by the Commission; and
(b)	must be accompanied by such evidence available to the applicant as the applicant considers may be relevant to the application; and
(c)	is to be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T and is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
13AE Investigation by the Secretary
(1)	If an application is made for a verification determination, the Secretary must investigate the matters to which the application relates.
(2)	When the investigation is completed, the Secretary must submit the application to the Commission for its consideration and determination.
(3)	When an application is submitted to the Commission it must be accompanied by:
(a)	any evidence supplied by the applicant in connection with the application; and
(b)	any documents or other evidence obtained by the Department in the course of the investigation that are relevant to the application; and
(c)	any other documents or other evidence under the control of the Department that are relevant to the application.
13AF Duties of Commission in relation to application for verification determination
(1)	If an application is submitted to the Commission in accordance with subsection 13AE(2), the Commission must:
(a)	consider all matters that, in the Commission’s opinion, are relevant to the application; and
(b)	determine all matters relevant to the determination of the application.
(2)	Without limiting paragraph (1)(a), the matters that the Commission must consider include:
(a)	the evidence and documents that were submitted with the application; and
(b)	any further evidence subsequently submitted to the Commission in relation to the application.
13AG Verification determination
(1)	The Commission must determine that a person is a reinstated pensioner if the Commission is satisfied that:
(a)	the person was eligible for and receiving a pension, on or before 28 May 1984, under one of the repealed Acts as a widow of a deceased member of the Forces or a widow of an Australian Mariner; and
(b)	the person remarried on or before that date; and
(c)	the pension was cancelled under the repealed Act only because the person married or remarried.
(2)	A determination under this section:
(a)	must be in writing; and
(b)	takes effect from the day, under section 13B, that pension becomes liable to be paid to the reinstated pensioner.
(3)	In subsection (1):
Australian Mariner has the meaning it had in the Seamen’s War Pensions and Allowances Act 1940.
pension means:
(a)	in relation to a repealed Act set out in paragraph (a) of the definition of repealed Act—pension (other than service pension) payable to a widow under that repealed Act in respect of the death of a member of the Forces; and
(b)	in relation to the Seamen’s War Pensions and Allowances Act 1940—pension payable to a widow under that Act in respect of the death of an Australian Mariner.
repealed Act means:
(a)	an Act specified in Part I, II, III, IV or V of Schedule 1; or
(b)	the Seamen’s War Pensions and Allowances Act 1940.
(4)	A reference in subsection (1) to a member of the Forces is a reference to:
(a)	a member of the Forces within the meaning of:
(i)	Divisions 1, 6 and 8 of Part III of the Repatriation Act 1920; or
(ii)	the Repatriation (Far East Strategic Reserve) Act 1956; or
(iii)	the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act 1962; and
(b)	a member of the Forces, or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, as defined by subsection 68(1) of this Act; and
(c)	a member of the Interim Forces within the meaning of the Interim Forces Benefits Act 1947; and
(d)	a person the incapacity or death of whom was taken, by section 7A of the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act 1962, to have resulted from an occurrence that happened during a period of special service of the person as a member of the Forces.
	Division 3 — Claims for pensions and applications for increases in pensions
13A Certain dependants to be automatically paid pension
(1)	If:
(a)	a veteran dies; and
(b)	the veteran is survived by a dependant of the deceased veteran; and
(c)	the veteran:
(i)	was, immediately before the veteran’s death, a veteran to whom subsection 22(4) or section 23, 24 or 25 applied; or
(ii)	was, immediately before the veteran’s death, a veteran to whom section 22 applied who was in receipt of a pension the rate of which had been increased under subsection 27(2) by an amount specified in any of items 1 to 8 of the Table in subsection 27(1); or
(iii)	is a veteran to whom subsection 13(3) applies;
the pension payable to the dependant in respect of the death of the veteran is payable:
(d)	without the dependant having to make a claim for the pension under section 14; and
(e)	without the Commission having to make a determination under section 19.
Note:	For the dependant’s eligibility for pension see subsection 13(2).
(1A)	If:
(a)	a veteran dies; and
(b)	the veteran is survived by a person who is a dependant of the veteran; and
(c)	the veteran was a prisoner of war at a time when the veteran was on operational service; and
(d)	at the time when the veteran dies, the Secretary:
(i)	is aware of the person’s existence; and
(ii)	is aware that the person is a dependant of the veteran; and
(iii)	has enough information about the veteran’s and the person’s circumstances to know that a pension is payable to the dependant under subsection 13(2A);
the pension payable to the dependant in respect of the death of the veteran is payable:
(e)	without the dependant having to make a claim for the pension under section 14; and
(f)	without the Commission having to make a determination under section 19.
Note:	For the dependant’s eligibility for pension see subsection 13(2A).
(2)	The pension is payable from and including the day after the veteran died.
Note:	For the rate at which the pension is payable to the dependant see section 30.
13B Reinstated pensioners to be automatically paid pension
(1)	If the Commission makes a determination under section 13AG that a person is a reinstated pensioner, the pension payable to the reinstated pensioner under subsection 30(1) is payable:
(a)	without the reinstated pensioner having to make a claim for the pension under section 14; and
(b)	without the Commission having to make a determination under section 19.
(2)	The Commonwealth is liable to pay the pension from the later of the following dates:
(a)	1 January 2002; or
(b)	the date that an application for the determination in respect of the reinstated pensioner was lodged under section 13AC.
14 Claim for pension
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), a veteran, or a dependant of a deceased veteran other than a reinstated pensioner, may make a claim for a pension in accordance with subsection (3).
Note:	A claim may not be made on or after the date of commencement (see section 12AA).
(2)	Where a determination under this Act is in force determining that any incapacity from which a veteran is suffering resulted from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, but a pension was not granted to the veteran on the ground that the extent of the incapacity was insufficient to justify the grant of a pension, subsection (1) does not apply to a claim for a pension in respect of that incapacity.
(3)	A claim for a pension:
(a)	shall be in writing and in accordance with a form approved by the Commission;
(b)	shall be accompanied by such evidence available to the claimant as the claimant considers may be relevant to the claim; and
(c)	is to be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T and is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
(4)	Subsection (3) shall not be taken to impose any onus of proof on a claimant or to prevent a claimant from submitting evidence in support of the claim subsequently to the making, but before the determination, of the claim.
(5)	Where:
(a)	a veteran has made a claim for a pension under this section in respect of incapacity from a particular injury or disease; and
(b)	the claim has not been finally determined;
the veteran is not empowered to make another claim for a pension under this section in respect of incapacity from that injury or disease.
(6)	Where:
(a)	a person has made a claim for a pension under this section in respect of the death of a veteran; and
(b)	the claim has not been finally determined;
the person is not empowered to make another claim for a pension under this section in respect of the death of that veteran.
(7)	For the purposes of this section, a claim is finally determined when either:
(a)	a decision that has been made in respect of the claim is not subject to any form of appeal or review; or
(b)	a decision that has been made in respect of the claim was subject to some form of appeal or review, but the period within which such an appeal or review could be instituted has ended without an appeal or review having been instituted.
15 Application for increase in pension
(1)	A veteran who is in receipt of a pension under this Part in respect of the incapacity of the veteran may apply, in accordance with subsection (3) of this section, for an increase in the rate of the pension on the ground that the incapacity of the veteran has increased since the rate of the pension was assessed or last assessed.
Note:	An application may not be made on or after the date of commencement (see section 12AA).
(2)	Where there is in force in respect of the incapacity of a veteran a determination of a kind referred to in subsection 14(2) but a pension has not been granted to the veteran on the ground that the extent of the incapacity is insufficient to justify the grant of a pension under this Part, the veteran may make application, in accordance with subsection (3) of this section, for a pension on the ground that the incapacity of the veteran has increased since the grant of a pension in respect of the incapacity was refused or last refused.
Note:	An application may not be made on or after the date of commencement (see section 12AA).
(3)	An application under subsection (1) or (2):
(a)	shall be in writing and in accordance with a form approved by the Commission;
(b)	shall be accompanied by such evidence available to the applicant as the applicant considers may be relevant to the application; and
(c)	is to be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T and is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
(4)	Subsection (3) shall not be taken to impose any onus of proof on an applicant or to prevent an applicant from submitting evidence in support of the application subsequently to the making, but before the determination, of the application.
(5)	Where:
(a)	a person has made an application under this section for a pension at an increased rate, or for a pension; and
(b)	the application has not been finally determined;
the person is not empowered to make another application under this section.
(6)	For the purpose of subsection (5), an application is finally determined when either:
(a)	a decision that has been made in respect of the application is not subject to any form of appeal or review; or
(b)	a decision that has been made in respect of the application was subject to some form of appeal or review, but the period within which such an appeal or review could be instituted has ended without an appeal or review having been instituted.
16 Who may make claim or application
A claim under subsection 14(1) for a pension for a veteran or for a dependant of a deceased veteran, an application under subsection 15(1) for an increase in the rate of pension payable to a veteran or an application under subsection 15(2) for a pension for a veteran may be made:
(a)	by the veteran or dependant, as the case may be;
(b)	with the approval of the veteran or dependant, as the case may be, by another person on behalf of the veteran or dependant;
(c)	in the case of a veteran or dependant, as the case may be, who is unable, by reason of physical or mental incapacity, to approve a person to make the claim or application on his or her behalf—by another person, being a person approved by the Commission, on behalf of the veteran or dependant; or
(d)	in the case of a dependant who is under the age of 18 years:
(i)	by a parent or guardian of the dependant;
(ii)	by another person approved by a parent or guardian of the dependant; or
(iii)	if there is not a parent or guardian of the dependant alive, or willing and able to make, or approve a person to make, such a claim or application on behalf of the dependant—by another person, being a person approved by the Commission;
on behalf of the dependant.
17 Investigation by the Secretary
(1)	Where a claim is made for a pension under subsection 14(1), or an application is made for an increased pension under subsection 15(1) or for a pension under subsection 15(2), the Secretary shall cause an investigation to be made into the matters to which the claim or application relates.
(2)	The Secretary shall, upon completion of the investigation in respect of a claim or application, cause the claim or application to be submitted to the Commission for its consideration and determination.
(3)	A claim or application submitted to the Commission under subsection (2) shall be accompanied by:
(a)	any evidence furnished by the claimant or applicant in connection with the claim or application; and
(b)	the documents relevant to the claim or application that are under the control of the Department, including any evidence or documents relevant to the claim or application obtained in the course of the investigation of the claim or application under subsection (1).
18 Duties of Commission in relation to pensions
(1)	It is the duty of the Commission in considering a claim or application submitted to it, to satisfy itself with respect to, or to determine, as the case requires, all matters relevant to the determination of the claim or application.
(2)	Where the Board, the Administrative Review Tribunal or a court makes a decision remitting to the Commission a matter, being:
(a)	the assessment of the rate, or increased rate, at which a pension is to be payable under this Part; or
(b)	the fixing of the date as from which a decision of the Board, the Administrative Review Tribunal or the court is to operate;
it is the duty of the Commission to determine that matter having regard to the provisions of this Act and the reasons of the Board, the Administrative Review Tribunal or the court, as the case may be, for that decision.
19 Determination of claims and applications
(1)	Where a claim or application is submitted to the Commission in accordance with subsection 17(2), the Commission shall:
(a)	consider all matters that, in the Commission’s opinion, are relevant to the claim or application; and
(b)	subject to this section, determine the claim as provided by subsection (3); and
(c)	subject to this section, determine an application under subsection 15(1) under subsection (5D); and
(d)	subject to this section, determine an application under subsection 15(2) as provided by subsection (5).
(2)	Without limiting the generality of paragraph (1)(a), the matters that the Commission may consider include:
(a)	the evidence and documents that were submitted with the claim or application in accordance with subsection 17(3);
(b)	any evidence subsequently submitted to the Commission in relation to the claim or application; and
(c)	any evidence, documents or other material furnished to the Commission under section 32.
(3)	The Commission shall determine a claim for a pension as follows:
(a)	first, the Commission shall determine whether the claimant is entitled to be granted a pension in respect of:
(i)	the incapacity of a veteran from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both; or
(ii)	the death of a veteran that was war-caused;
(b)	then, if the Commission determines that the claimant is so entitled, the Commission shall proceed as set out in subsections (5A), (5B), (5C) and (5D).
(4)	The Commission must determine an application under subsection 15(2) as provided by subsection (5).
(4A)	The Commission must deal with an application under subsection 15(1) in accordance with subsections (5A), (5B) and (5C) and determine the application under subsection (5D).
(5)	The Commission must determine an application under subsection 15(2) as follows:
(a)	first, the Commission must determine whether the claimant is entitled to be granted a pension in respect of the incapacity of the veteran;
(b)	then, if the Commission determines that the applicant is so entitled, the Commission must proceed as set out in subsections (5A), (5B), (5C) and (5D).
(5A)	If:
(a)	paragraph (3)(b) applies in respect of a claim; or
(b)	subsection (4A) applies in respect of an application under subsection 15(1); or
(c)	paragraph (5)(b) applies in respect of an application under subsection 15(2);
the Commission must assess the matters set out in subsection (5C).
(5B)	The Commission must assess the matters set out in subsection (5C) in accordance with whichever of sections 22, 23, 24, 25, 27 and 30 are applicable in the particular case.
(5C)	The matters that the Commission must assess are:
(a)	the rate or rates at which the pension would have been payable from time to time during the assessment period; and
(b)	subject to subsection (6), the rate at which the pension is payable.
(5D)	After making an assessment under subsection (5C), the Commission must determine that pension is payable at the rate assessed.
(5E)	Pension is payable from the date of effect of the determination made under:
(i)	in the case of a claim—subsection (3); or
(ii)	in the case of an application made under subsection 15(2)—paragraph (5)(a); or
(iii)	in the case of an application made under subsection 15(1)—subsection (5D).
(5F)	A determination under:
(a)	subsection (3), in respect of a claim; or
(b)	subsection (5), in respect of an application under subsection 15(2); or
(c)	subsection (5D), in respect of an application under subsection 15(1);
takes effect from the date on which the determination is made or on such later or earlier date as is specified in the determination.
(6)	Where the Commission has, pursuant to subsection (5C), assessed that the pension was payable at some time during the assessment period at the rate provided by section 23 or 24 then, subject to section 24A, the rate at which the pension is payable shall not be lower than the rate provided by whichever of those sections applied, or applied most recently, during the assessment period.
(7)	Where:
(a)	the Commission, upon considering a claim for a pension in respect of the incapacity of a veteran from injury or disease determines, or is satisfied, that the veteran suffered the injury or contracted the disease as claimed and that the injury is a war-caused injury or the disease is a war-caused disease, as the case may be; and
(b)	the Commission is also satisfied a determination under this Act is in force determining that the veteran has suffered an injury or contracted a disease (not being the injury or disease referred to in paragraph (a)) and that:
(i)	that injury is a war-caused injury, or is, in accordance with subsection 70(3), a defence-caused injury for the purposes of subsection 70(1); or
(ii)	that disease is a war-caused disease, or is, in accordance with subsection 70(3), a defence-caused disease for the purposes of subsection 70(1);
as the case may be, whether or not a pension under Part II or Part IV, as the case requires, has been granted in respect of that injury or disease;
the Commission shall not, in a case where the claimant is in receipt of a pension under Part II or Part IV in respect of incapacity resulting from the injury or disease referred to in paragraph (b), grant a separate and additional pension to the claimant in respect of incapacity resulting from the injury or disease referred to in paragraph (a), but the Commission shall, having regard to any incapacity resulting from the injury or disease referred to in paragraph (a) and any incapacity resulting from the injury or disease referred to in paragraph (b) and treating any such defence-caused injury as war-caused injury and any such defence-caused disease as war-caused disease:
(c)	if the claimant is not in receipt of a pension under Part II or Part IV—determine whether the claimant is entitled to be granted a pension under Part II and, if it determines that the claimant is entitled to be granted such a pension, assess the rate of the pension to be granted to the claimant in accordance with the preceding provisions of this section; or
(d)	if the claimant is in receipt of a pension under Part II or Part IV—re-assess the rate of that pension in accordance with the preceding provisions of this section.
(8)	Where the Commission grants the whole or a part of a claim or application, the Commission may pay to the claimant or applicant an amount, calculated in accordance with a scale approved by the Commission, in respect of the expenses (if any) incurred by the claimant or applicant in providing for the production of relevant documentary medical evidence.
(9)	In this section:
application means an application made in accordance with section 15.
application day, in relation to a person who has made a claim or application or on whose behalf a claim or application has been made, means:
(a)	the day on which the claim or application was received at an office of the Department in Australia; or
(b)	if subsection 20(2), 20(2B) or 21(2) applies to the person—the day on which the claim or application referred to in paragraph 20(2)(a), 20(2B)(a) or 21(2)(a) was so received.
assessment period, in relation to a claim or application relating to a pension, means the period starting on the application day and ending when the claim or application is determined.
claim means a claim made in accordance with section 14.
relevant documentary medical evidence, in relation to a claim or application referred to in subsection (8), means certificates, reports or other documents from a medical practitioner, or from a hospital or similar institution in which the veteran or deceased veteran in respect of whom the claim is made had received medical treatment, in support of the claim or application, being certificates, reports or documents reasonably used:
(a)	in support of the claim or application; or
(b)	if a part only of the claim or application was granted—in support of that part of the claim or application.
19A Refusal to undergo medical examination etc. may delay consideration of claim or application
(1)	Where:
(a)	a claimant, being a veteran, has refused or failed to undergo a medical examination for the purpose of the investigation of the claim or the consideration of the claim by the Commission; or
(b)	a claimant has refused or failed:
(i)	to consent to the release to the Secretary, or to the Commission, of information concerning a veteran for the purpose of the investigation or consideration of the claim; or
(ii)	to comply with a request under paragraph 32(1)(c) to furnish material to the Commission;
the Commission may, if it is of the opinion that that medical examination, information or material is likely to affect the decision it will make in respect of the claim, defer further consideration of the claim until the veteran has undergone the medical examination, or the claimant has consented to the release of the information or furnished the material, as the case may be, and, if it does so, the Commission shall serve on the claimant a notice, in writing, informing the claimant that the claim has been so deferred.
(2)	If, at the expiration of 6 months after a claimant has been informed under subsection (1) that a claim has been deferred by reason of the refusal or failure of a veteran to undergo a medical examination, the veteran has not undergone the medical examination, the claim shall, by force of this subsection, be deemed to have been refused.
(3)	If, at the expiration of 6 months after a claimant has been informed under subsection (1) that a claim has been deferred by reason that the claimant has refused or failed to consent to the release of information or to furnish material:
(a)	the claimant has not consented to the release of the information; or
(b)	the claimant has not furnished the material or satisfied the Commission that the material is not in the claimant’s possession or under the claimant’s control;
as the case may be, the claim shall, by force of this subsection, be deemed to have been refused.
(4)	In this section:
claimant means a person who has made a claim under section 14 or an application under section 15.
20 Dates of effect that may be specified in respect of grant of claim for pension
(1)	Where a claim in accordance with section 14 for a pension is granted (other than a claim to which subsection (2A) applies), the Commission may, subject to this Act, specify as a date that a determination under subsection 19(3) takes effect in respect of the claim, a date not earlier than 3 months before the date on which the claim for a pension, in accordance with a form approved for the purposes of paragraph 14(3)(a) was received at an office of the Department in Australia.
(2)	Where:
(a)	a person makes a claim for a pension in writing (other than a claim to which subsection (2B) applies), but otherwise than in accordance with a form approved for the purposes of paragraph 14(3)(a);
(b)	the person subsequently makes a claim for the pension in accordance with a form so approved:
(i)	at a time when the person had not been notified by the Department in writing that it would be necessary to make the claim in accordance with a form so approved; or
(ii)	within 3 months after the person had been so notified; and
(c)	a pension is granted to the person upon consideration of that claim in accordance with a form so approved;
the Commission may, subject to this Act, specify as a date that a determination under subsection 19(3) takes effect in respect of the claim, a date not earlier than 3 months before the date on which the claim referred to in paragraph (a) was received at an office of the Department in Australia.
(2A)	If:
(a)	a claim in accordance with section 14 for a pension for a dependant of a deceased veteran, being a dependant who is the widow or widower of the veteran, is granted; and
(b)	the claim for a pension, in accordance with a form approved for the purposes of paragraph 14(3)(a), was received at an office of the Department in Australia less than 6 months after the death of the veteran;
the Commission may, subject to this Act, specify as a date that a determination under subsection 19(3) takes effect in respect of the claim a date not earlier than 6 months before the date on which the claim for a pension was received.
(2B)	If:
(a)	a person makes a claim for a pension for a dependant of a deceased veteran, being a dependant who is the widow or widower of the veteran, that is in writing but not in accordance with a form approved for the purposes of paragraph 14(3)(a); and
(b)	that claim is made less than 6 months after the death of the veteran; and
(c)	the person subsequently makes a claim for the pension in accordance with an approved form:
(i)	at a time when the person had not been notified by the Department in writing that it would be necessary to make the claim in accordance with an approved form; or
(ii)	within 6 months after the person had been so notified; and
(d)	a pension for a dependant of a deceased veteran, being a dependant who is the widow or widower of the veteran, is granted to the person on consideration of the claim in accordance with an approved form;
the Commission may, subject to this Act, specify as a date that a determination under subsection 19(3) takes effect in respect of the claim a date not earlier than 6 months before the date on which the claim referred to in paragraph (a) was received at an office of the Department in Australia.
(3)	Nothing in this section empowers the Commission to specify as a date that a determination of a claim under subsection 19(3) takes effect in respect of a person who has made a claim for a pension under section 14, a date before the date that the person became eligible to be granted the pension.
21 Dates of effect that may be specified in respect of grant of applications under section 15
(1)	The Commission may, subject to this Act, specify as a date that a determination of an application made under section 15 takes effect in respect of a person, the date on which the application, in accordance with a form approved for the purposes of paragraph 15(3)(a) was received at an office of the Department in Australia.
Note:	A determination of an application under subsection 15(1) is made under subsection 19(5D). A determination of an application under subsection 15(2) is made under subsection 19(5).
(2)	Where:
(a)	a person makes an application in writing of a kind referred to in subsection 15(1) or (2), but otherwise than in accordance with a form approved for the purposes of paragraph 15(3)(a);
(b)	the person subsequently makes an application of a kind so referred to in accordance with a form so approved:
(i)	at a time when the person had not been notified by the Department, in writing, that it would be necessary to make the application in accordance with a form so approved; or
(ii)	within 3 months after the person had been so notified; and
(c)	an increased pension, or a pension, is granted to the person upon consideration of that application in accordance with a form so approved;
the Commission may, subject to this Act, specify as a date that a determination of an application made under section 15 takes effect, the date on which the application referred to in paragraph (a) was received at an office of the Department in Australia.
Note:	A determination of an application under subsection 15(1) is made under subsection 19(5D). A determination of an application under subsection 15(2) is made under subsection 19(5).
(3)	Nothing in this section empowers the Commission to specify as a date that a determination of an application made under section 15 takes effect in respect of a person, a date before the date that the person became eligible to be granted the increased pension, or pension, as the case may be.
Note:	A determination of an application under subsection 15(1) is made under subsection 19(5D). A determination of an application under subsection 15(2) is made under subsection 19(5).
	Division 4 — Rates of pensions payable to veterans
21A Determination of degree of incapacity
(1)	The Commission shall, subject to subsections (2) and (3), determine the degree of incapacity of a veteran from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, according to the provisions of the Approved Guide to the Assessment of Rates of Veterans’ Pensions.
(2)	Subject to subsection (3), the degree of incapacity shall be determined as 10% or a multiple of 10%, but not exceeding 100%.
(3)	The Commission may determine that the degree of incapacity of a veteran from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, is less than 10% (including 0%), and, where it does so, it shall not assess a rate of pension, but shall refuse to grant a pension to the veteran on the ground that the extent of the incapacity of the veteran from that war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, is insufficient to justify the grant of a pension.
22 General rate of pension and extreme disablement adjustment
(1)	This section applies to a veteran who is being paid, or is eligible to be paid, a pension under this Part, other than a veteran to whom section 23, 24 or 25 applies.
(2)	Subject to this Division, the rate at which pension is payable to a veteran to whom this section applies in respect of the incapacity of the veteran from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, is the rate per fortnight that constitutes the same percentage of the general rate as the percentage determined by the Commission in accordance with section 21A to be the degree of incapacity of the veteran from that war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, as the case may be.
(3)	For the purposes of this section, the maximum rate per fortnight is $338.94 per fortnight.
(4)	Where:
(a)	either:
(i)	the degree of incapacity of a veteran from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, is determined under section 21A to be 100% or has been so determined by a determination that is in force; or
(ii)	a veteran is, because he or she has suffered or is suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis, receiving or entitled to receive a pension at the maximum rate per fortnight specified in subsection (3);
(b)	the veteran has attained the age of 65;
(c)	the veteran has an impairment rating of at least 70 points and a lifestyle rating of at least 6 points, each determined in accordance with the Approved Guide to the Assessment of Rates of Veterans’ Pensions; and
(d)	the veteran is not receiving a pension at a rate provided for by section 23, 24 or 25;
the rate at which pension is payable to the veteran is $510.40 per fortnight.
(5)	For the purpose of subsection (4), a veteran who has been granted a pension at a rate specified in subsection (3) or provided for by section 23, 24 or 25 shall be taken to be receiving a pension at the rate specified in, or provided for by, the provision concerned even if:
(a)	the rate has been reduced, or the pension is not payable, because of section 26, 30C, 30D or 74;
(b)	amounts are being deducted from the pension under section 30P, 79 or 205; or
(c)	the pension has been suspended under section 31.
23 Intermediate rate of pension
(1)	This section applies to a veteran if:
(aa)	the veteran has made a claim under section 14 for a pension, or an application under section 15 for an increase in the rate of the pension that he or she is receiving; and
(aab)	the veteran had not yet turned 65 when the claim or application was made; and
(a)	either:
(i)	the degree of incapacity of the veteran from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, is determined under section 21A to be at least 70% or has been so determined by a determination that is in force; or
(ii)	the veteran is, because he or she has suffered or is suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis, receiving or entitled to receive a pension at the general rate; and
(b)	the veteran’s incapacity from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, is, of itself alone, of such a nature as to render the veteran incapable of undertaking remunerative work otherwise than on a part-time basis or intermittently; and
(c)	the veteran is, by reason of incapacity from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, alone, prevented from continuing to undertake remunerative work that the veteran was undertaking and is, by reason thereof, suffering a loss of salary or wages, or of earnings on his or her own account, that the veteran would not be suffering if the veteran were free from that incapacity; and
(d)	section 24 or 25 does not apply to the veteran.
(2)	Paragraph (1)(b) shall not be taken to be fulfilled in respect of a veteran who is undertaking, or is capable of undertaking, work of a particular kind:
(a)	if the veteran undertakes, or is capable of undertaking, that work for 50 per centum or more of the time (excluding overtime) ordinarily worked by persons engaged in work of that kind on a full-time basis; or
(b)	in a case where paragraph (a) is inapplicable to the work which the veteran is undertaking or capable of undertaking—if the veteran is undertaking, or is capable of undertaking, that work for 20 or more hours per week.
(3)	For the purpose of paragraph (1)(c):
(a)	a veteran who is incapacitated from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, to the extent set out in paragraph (1)(b) shall not be taken to be suffering a loss of salary or wages, or of earnings on his or her own account, by reason of that incapacity:
(i)	if the veteran has ceased to engage in remunerative work for reasons other than his or her incapacity from that war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both;
(ii)	if the veteran is incapacitated, or prevented, from engaging in remunerative work for some other reason; or
(iii)	if the veteran has been engaged in remunerative work on a part-time basis or intermittently for reasons other than his or her incapacity from that war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both; and
(b)	where a veteran, not being a veteran who has attained the age of 65 years, who has not been engaged in remunerative work satisfies the Commission that he or she has been genuinely seeking to engage in remunerative work, that he or she would, but for that incapacity, be continuing so to seek to engage in remunerative work and that that incapacity is the substantial cause of his or her inability to obtain remunerative work in which to engage, the veteran shall be treated as having been prevented, by reason of that incapacity, from continuing to undertake remunerative work that the veteran was undertaking.
(3A)	This section applies to a veteran if:
(a)	the veteran has made a claim under section 14 for a pension, or an application under section 15 for an increase in the rate of the pension that he or she is receiving; and
(b)	the veteran had turned 65 before the claim or application was made; and
(c)	paragraphs (1)(a) and (1)(b) (as affected by subsection (2)) apply to the veteran; and
(d)	the veteran is, because of incapacity from war-caused injury or war-caused disease or both, alone, prevented from continuing to undertake the remunerative work (last paid work) that the veteran was last undertaking before he or she made the claim or application; and
(e)	because the veteran is so prevented from undertaking his or her last paid work, the veteran is suffering a loss of salary or wages, or of earnings on his or her own account, that he or she would not be suffering if he or she were free from that incapacity; and
(f)	the veteran was undertaking his or her last paid work after the veteran had turned 65; and
(g)	when the veteran stopped undertaking his or her last paid work, the veteran had been undertaking remunerative work for a continuous period of at least 10 years that began before the veteran turned 65; and
(h)	section 24 or 25 does not apply to the veteran.
(3B)	For the purposes of paragraph (3A)(e), a veteran who is incapacitated from war-caused injury or war-caused disease or both, to the extent set out in paragraph (1)(b) is not taken to be suffering a loss of salary or wages, or of earnings on his or her own account, because of that incapacity if:
(a)	the veteran has ceased to engage in remunerative work for reasons other than his or her incapacity from that war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both; or
(b)	the veteran is incapacitated, or prevented from engaging in remunerative work for some other reason; or
(c)	the veteran has been engaged in remunerative work on a part-time basis or intermittently for reasons other than his or her incapacity from that war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both.
(4)	Subject to subsections (5) and (6), the rate at which pension is payable to a veteran to whom this section applies is $619.80 per fortnight.
(5)	Subject to subsection (6), the rate at which pension is payable to a veteran to whom section 115D applies (veterans working under rehabilitation scheme) is the reduced amount worked out using the following formula:
(6)	If section 25A applies to a veteran, the rate at which pension is payable to the veteran is the rate per fortnight specified in subsection (4) or (5) of this section, reduced in accordance with section 25A.
24 Special rate of pension
(1)	This section applies to a veteran if:
(aa)	the veteran has made a claim under section 14 for a pension, or an application under section 15 for an increase in the rate of the pension that he or she is receiving; and
(aab)	the veteran had not yet turned 65 when the claim or application was made; and
(a)	either:
(i)	the degree of incapacity of the veteran from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, is determined under section 21A to be at least 70% or has been so determined by a determination that is in force; or
(ii)	the veteran is, because he or she has suffered or is suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis, receiving or entitled to receive a pension at the general rate; and
(b)	the veteran is totally and permanently incapacitated, that is to say, the veteran’s incapacity from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, is of such a nature as, of itself alone, to render the veteran incapable of undertaking remunerative work for periods aggregating more than 8 hours per week; and
(c)	the veteran is, by reason of incapacity from that war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, alone, prevented from continuing to undertake remunerative work that the veteran was undertaking and is, by reason thereof, suffering a loss of salary or wages, or of earnings on his or her own account, that the veteran would not be suffering if the veteran were free of that incapacity; and
(d)	section 25 does not apply to the veteran.
(2)	For the purpose of paragraph (1)(c):
(a)	a veteran who is incapacitated from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, shall not be taken to be suffering a loss of salary or wages, or of earnings on his or her own account, by reason of that incapacity if:
(i)	the veteran has ceased to engage in remunerative work for reasons other than his or her incapacity from that war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both; or
(ii)	the veteran is incapacitated, or prevented, from engaging in remunerative work for some other reason; and
(b)	where a veteran, not being a veteran who has attained the age of 65 years, who has not been engaged in remunerative work satisfies the Commission that he or she has been genuinely seeking to engage in remunerative work, that he or she would, but for that incapacity, be continuing so to seek to engage in remunerative work and that that incapacity is the substantial cause of his or her inability to obtain remunerative work in which to engage, the veteran shall be treated as having been prevented by reason of that incapacity from continuing to undertake remunerative work that the veteran was undertaking.
(2A)	This section applies to a veteran if:
(a)	the veteran has made a claim under section 14 for a pension, or an application under section 15 for an increase in the rate of the pension that he or she is receiving; and
(b)	the veteran had turned 65 before the claim or application was made; and
(c)	paragraphs (1)(a) and (1)(b) apply to the veteran; and
(d)	the veteran is, because of incapacity from war-caused injury or war-caused disease or both, alone, prevented from continuing to undertake the remunerative work (last paid work) that the veteran was last undertaking before he or she made the claim or application; and
(e)	because the veteran is so prevented from undertaking his or her last paid work, the veteran is suffering a loss of salary or wages, or of earnings on his or her own account, that he or she would not be suffering if he or she were free from that incapacity; and
(f)	the veteran was undertaking his or her last paid work after the veteran had turned 65; and
(g)	when the veteran stopped undertaking his or her last paid work, the veteran had been undertaking remunerative work for a continuous period of at least 10 years that began before the veteran turned 65; and
(h)	section 25 does not apply to the veteran.
(2B)	For the purposes of paragraph (2A)(e), a veteran who is incapacitated from war-caused injury or war-caused disease or both, is not taken to be suffering a loss of salary or wages, or of earnings on his or her own account, because of that incapacity if:
(a)	the veteran has ceased to engage in remunerative work for reasons other than his or her incapacity from that war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both; or
(b)	the veteran is incapacitated, or prevented from engaging in remunerative work for some other reason.
(3)	This section also applies to a veteran who has been blinded in both eyes as a result of war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both.
(4)	Subject to subsections (5), (5A) and (6), the rate at which pension is payable to a veteran to whom this section applies is $1,595.66 per fortnight.
(5)	Subject to subsections (5A) and (6), the rate at which pension is payable to a veteran to whom section 115D applies (veterans working under rehabilitation scheme) is the reduced amount worked out using the following formula:
(5A)	If:
(a)	section 115D applies to a veteran because of subsection 115D(1A); and
(b)	the veteran is engaged in remunerative work of more than 8 hours, but less than 20 hours, per week as a result of undertaking a transferred VEA rehabilitation program;
then, subject to subsection (6) of this section, the rate at which pension is payable to the veteran is the higher of the following amounts:
(c)	the amount worked out under subsection (5) of this section;
(d)	the amount under subsection 23(4).
(6)	If section 25A applies to a veteran, the rate at which pension is payable to the veteran is the rate per fortnight specified in subsection (4), (5) or (5A) of this section, reduced in accordance with section 25A.
24A Continuation of rates of certain pensions
(1)	Subject to subsections (1A) and (2), if the Commonwealth is or becomes liable to pay a pension to a veteran at the rate applicable under section 23 or 24, that rate continues, while a pension continues to be payable to the veteran, to apply to the veteran unless:
(a)	the decision to apply that rate of pension to the veteran would not have been made but for a false statement or misrepresentation made by a person;
(b)	in the case of a veteran to whom section 23 applies:
(i)	the veteran is undertaking or is capable of undertaking remunerative work of a particular kind for 50% or more of the time (excluding overtime) ordinarily worked by persons engaged in work of that kind on a full time basis; or
(ii)	in a case where subparagraph (i) is inapplicable to the work which the veteran is undertaking or is capable of undertaking—the veteran is undertaking or is capable of undertaking that work for 20 or more hours per week; or
(c)	in the case of a veteran to whom section 24 applies—the veteran is undertaking or is capable of undertaking remunerative work for periods aggregating more than 8 hours per week.
(1A)	However, subsection (1) does not prevent a rate applicable under subsection 24(4), (5) or (5A) from being reduced to give effect to subsection 24(6).
(2)	Paragraphs (1)(b) and (c) do not apply to a veteran if the veteran is undertaking a transferred VEA rehabilitation program or section 115D applies to the veteran.
25 Temporary payment at special rate
(1)	Where the Commission is satisfied that:
(a)	a veteran is temporarily incapacitated from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both; and
(b)	if the veteran were so incapacitated permanently, the veteran would be a veteran to whom section 24 applies;
the Commission shall determine the period during which, in its opinion, that incapacity is likely to continue and this section applies to the veteran in respect of that period.
(2)	Where this section applies to a veteran in respect of a period, the rate at which pension is payable to the veteran in respect of that period is the rate that would have been applicable under subsection 24(4), (5), (5A) or (6) if section 24 applied to the veteran.
(3)	The Commission may, under this section:
(a)	determine a period that commenced before the date on which the determination is made; and
(b)	determine a period in respect of a veteran that commenced or commences upon the expiration of a period previously determined by the Commission under subsection (1) in respect of the veteran.
25A Offsetting certain payments made under the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988
(1)	This section applies to a veteran:
(a)	to whom section 23, 24 or 25 applies; or
(b)	who is granted a loss of earnings allowance under section 108;
in respect of the incapacity of the veteran from a war-caused injury or a war-caused disease if the veteran has received an amount of compensation, whether before or after the commencement of this section, under section 24, 25 or 27 of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988 for that injury or disease, or any other injury or disease, in relation to some other incapacity of the veteran.
(2)	That amount of compensation is to be converted to a fortnightly amount in accordance with advice from the Australian Government Actuary.
(3)	The rate at which:
(a)	a pension is payable to the person under section 23, 24 or 25; or
(b)	a loss of earnings allowance under section 108 is payable to the person;
apart from this section, is reduced, but not below zero, by the fortnightly amount worked out under subsection (2) of this section.
26 Reduction in rate of pension in certain cases
(1)	Where:
(a)	a veteran is entitled to receive, or is in receipt of, a pension in respect of incapacity from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both; and
(b)	the veteran is also entitled to receive, or is also in receipt of, periodical payments, or a lump-sum payment:
(i)	under the law of a foreign country; or
(ii)	under the law of a State;
in respect of incapacity resulting from his or her employment in connection with war-like operations in which the Crown was engaged, being incapacity only from injury or disease or both referred to in paragraph (a);
the rate of the pension referred to in paragraph (a) shall be assessed at the rate per year at which it would, but for this subsection, be assessed, reduced by the rate per year of the periodical payments referred to in paragraph (b) or an amount per year determined by the Commission to be the periodical payment equivalent of that lump-sum payment, as the case may be.
(2)	Where:
(a)	a veteran is entitled to receive, or is in receipt of, a pension in respect of incapacity from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both; and
(b)	the veteran is also entitled to receive, or is also in receipt of, periodical payments, or a lump-sum payment:
(i)	under the law of a foreign country; or
(ii)	under the law of a State;
in respect of incapacity resulting from his or her employment in connection with war-like operations in which the Crown was engaged, not being incapacity only from the injury or disease, or both, referred to in paragraph (a);
the rate of those periodical payments, or the amount of that lump-sum payment, as the case may be, shall be taken into account in assessing the rate of the pension referred to in paragraph (a) so that the total of the payments by way of that pension and of the payments or payment referred to in paragraph (b) do not exceed the total of the payments that the veteran would be entitled to receive by way of pension under this Part in respect of the incapacity referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b), assuming, for the purposes only of this subsection, that the incapacity referred to in paragraph (b) was wholly incapacity from war-caused injury for the purposes of this Part.
(3)	Where:
(a)	the rate per year by which the rate of a veteran’s pension is required by subsection (1) to be reduced exceeds the rate that, but for that subsection, would be the rate per year of that pension; or
(b)	the rate of the periodical payments or amount of the lump sum payment that is required by subsection (2) to be taken into account in assessing the rate of a veteran’s pension is such as to require the assessment of the rate of that pension at a rate that does not exceed nought per centum;
the veteran is not entitled to be paid pension.
27 Increased rates of pension in certain cases
(1)	This section applies to a veteran (other than a veteran to whom section 24 applies) who is being paid, or is eligible to be paid, a pension under this Part in respect of incapacity from a war-caused injury or a war-caused disease of a kind described in column 1 of the following table:
Column 1
Column 2
Kind of incapacity
Rate per fortnight $
1.
Two arms amputated
354.80
2.
Two legs and one arm amputated
354.80
3.
Two legs amputated above the knee
354.80
4.
Two legs amputated and blinded in one eye
354.80
5.
One arm and one leg amputated and blinded in one eye
354.80
6.
One leg and one arm amputated
354.80
7.
One leg amputated above, and one leg amputated below, the knee
112.50
8.
Two legs amputated below the knee
75.90
9.
One arm amputated and blinded in one eye
65.20
10.
One leg amputated and blinded in one eye
65.20
11.
One leg amputated above the knee
32.60
12.
One leg amputated below the knee
17.10
13.
One arm amputated above the elbow
32.60
14.
One arm amputated below the elbow
17.10
15.
Blinded in one eye
25.20
(2)	Subject to subsection (3), the rate at which pension is payable under section 22, 23 or 25 to a veteran to whom this section applies is a rate equal to the sum of:
(a)	the rate applicable to that pension under section 22, 23 or 25, as the case requires; and
(b)	the rate specified in column 2 of the table in subsection (1) of this section opposite to the description of the kind of incapacity described in column 1 from which the veteran is suffering.
(3)	If the rate calculated in accordance with subsection (2) in respect of the pension payable to a veteran exceeds:
(a)	if section 25A applies to the veteran—the rate specified in subsection 24(6); or
(b)	otherwise—the rate specified in subsection 24(4);
the rate must be reduced by the amount of the excess.
(4)	For the purpose of the application of a table in subsection (1) to and in relation to a veteran:
(a)	amputation of an arm of a veteran below the elbow shall, if the elbow action is lost as a result of the amputation, be treated as if an arm of the veteran had been amputated above the elbow;
(b)	amputation of a leg of a veteran below the knee shall, if the knee action is lost as a result of the amputation, be treated as if a leg of the veteran had been amputated above the knee;
(c)	amputation of a foot of a veteran shall be treated as amputation of a leg of the veteran below the knee;
(d)	amputation of a hand of a veteran shall be treated as amputation of an arm of the veteran below the elbow; and
(e)	a leg, foot, hand or arm that has been rendered permanently and wholly useless shall be treated as having been amputated.
27A Calculation of arrears of pension
(1)	This section applies if:
(a)	a pension becomes payable, or becomes payable at an increased rate, under this Part to a veteran from a date (the operative date) before the date on which a decision to grant the pension, or to increase the rate of the pension, (the decision) is made; and
(b)	the veteran is a member of a couple or was a member of a couple at any time during the period (the arrears period) between:
(i)	the operative date; and
(ii)	immediately before the first pension period during which an instalment of the pension, or an instalment of the pension at the increased rate, is paid to the person; and
(c)	the veteran’s partner was receiving:
(i)	a social security pension or benefit; or
(ia)	a service pension; or
(ii)	income support supplement; or
(iii)	a veteran payment;
at any time during the arrears period; and
(d)	the rate at which the social security pension or benefit, service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment is payable to the veteran’s partner is reduced as a result of the pension becoming payable to the veteran, or becoming payable to the veteran at an increased rate, as the case requires; and
(e)	an amount (the recovered amount), or no amount, in respect of that reduction has been deducted under section 205 or section 205AA.
Note:	The amount of arrears of pension payable to a veteran may also be affected by section 205 or 205AA.
(2)	The amount of the pension payable to the veteran in respect of the arrears period is reduced by an amount calculated as follows:
Method statement
Step 1.	Work out the total amount of the pension that would have been paid to the veteran during the arrears period if the decision had been made on the operative date.
Step 2.	Work out the total amount (if any) of the pension that was paid to the veteran during the arrears period.
Step 3.	Subtract the amount obtained in Step 2 from the amount obtained in Step 1. The result is called the provisional arrears.
Step 4.	Work out the total amount of social security pension or benefit, service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment that was paid to the veteran’s partner during the arrears period.
Step 5.	Work out the total amount (if any) of social security pension or benefit, service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment that would have been payable to the veteran’s partner during the arrears period if the decision had been made on the operative date.
Step 6.	Subtract the amount obtained in step 5 from the amount obtained in step 4. The result is called the notional excess payment.
Step 6A.	Subtract the recovered amount (if any) from the notional excess payment. The result is called the excess payment.
Step 7.	If the excess payment is equal to or more than the provisional arrears, the pension payable to the veteran in respect of the arrears period is reduced by the amount of the provisional arrears.
Step 8.	If the excess payment is less than the provisional arrears, the amount of the pension payable to the veteran in respect of the arrears period is reduced by the amount of the excess payment.
27B Certain decisions under section 27A reviewable under the Social Security Act
(1)	This section applies if:
(a)	a decision is made under section 27A in relation to the amount of arrears of pension to be paid to a veteran; and
(b)	subparagraph 27A(1)(c)(i) applies in relation to the veteran.
(2)	The calculations made under steps 4 to 6A of the Method statement in section 27A in relation to the payment and payability of a social security pension or benefit are, for the purposes of the Social Security Act, taken to be decisions made under that Act by an officer (other than the Secretary) of the Department administered by the Minister administering that Act.
28 Capacity to undertake remunerative work
In determining, for the purposes of paragraph 23(1)(b) or 24(1)(b), whether a veteran who is incapacitated from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, is incapable of undertaking remunerative work, and in determining for the purposes of section 24A whether a veteran who is so incapacitated is capable of undertaking remunerative work, the Commission shall have regard to the following matters only:
(a)	the vocational, trade and professional skills, qualifications and experience of the veteran;
(b)	the kinds of remunerative work which a person with the skills, qualifications and experience referred to in paragraph (a) might reasonably undertake; and
(c)	the degree to which the physical or mental impairment of the veteran as a result of the injury or disease, or both, has reduced his or her capacity to undertake the kinds of remunerative work referred to in paragraph (b).
29 Approved Guide to the Assessment of Rates of Veterans’ Pensions
(1)	The Commission may, in writing, determine a guide setting out:
(a)	criteria by reference to which the extent of the incapacity of a veteran resulting from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, shall be assessed; and
(b)	methods by which the extent of that incapacity, as assessed in accordance with those criteria, shall be expressed as a percentage of incapacity from that injury or disease, or both, being a percentage not exceeding 100 per centum.
Determination must be approved by the Minister
(2)	A determination under subsection (1) has no effect unless the Minister has approved it in writing.
(3)	A determination under subsection (1) approved by the Minister and as in force from time to time is the Approved Guide to the Assessment of Rates of Veterans’ Pensions.
Variation or revocation of Approved Guide to the Assessment of Rates of Veterans’ Pensions
(3A)	The Commission may, by written determination, vary or revoke the Approved Guide to the Assessment of Rates of Veterans’ Pensions.
(3B)	A determination under subsection (3A) has no effect unless the Minister has approved it in writing.
Guide is binding
(4)	Where the Commission, the Board or the Administrative Review Tribunal is required to assess or re-assess, or review the assessment or re-assessment of, the extent of the incapacity of a veteran resulting from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, the provisions of the Approved Guide to the Assessment of Rates of Veterans’ Pensions are binding on the Commission, the Board or the Administrative Review Tribunal, as the case may be, in, and in connection with, the carrying out by it of that assessment, re-assessment or review, and the assessment, re-assessment or review of the extent of that incapacity made by it shall be in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Approved Guide to the Assessment of Rates of Veterans’ Pensions.
Extent of incapacity
(5)	The percentage of incapacity of a veteran from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, ascertained in accordance with the methods referred to in paragraph (1)(b) may be nought per centum.
(6)	In preparing criteria by reference to which the extent of incapacity of a veteran from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, shall be assessed, or in varying those criteria, the Commission shall have regard to medical opinion concerning the nature and effect (including possible effect) of the injury or disease and the extent (if any) to which incapacity resulting from the injury or disease may reasonably be capable of being reduced or removed.
Legislative instruments
(10)	A determination under subsection (1) or (3A) made by the Commission and approved by the Minister is a legislative instrument made by the Minister on the day on which the determination is approved.
(11)	Subsection 12(2) (retrospective application of legislative instruments) of the Legislation Act 2003 does not apply in relation to the legislative instrument.
Incorporation of other instruments
(12)	Despite subsection 14(2) of the Legislation Act 2003:
(a)	a determination under subsection (1); or
(b)	a determination under subsection (3A) varying the Approved Guide to the Assessment of Rates of Veterans’ Pensions;
may make provision in relation to a matter by applying, adopting or incorporating, with or without modification, any matter contained in an instrument or other writing as in force or existing from time to time.
	Division 5 — Rates of pensions payable to dependants of deceased veteran
30 Rates at which pensions are payable to dependants
(1)	Subject to subsection (3), the rate at which pension is payable under this Part to a dependant of a deceased veteran, being a person who is the widow or widower of the veteran or a reinstated pensioner in relation to the veteran, is a rate per fortnight equal to the sum of the following amounts per fortnight:
(a)	1/26 of the amount specified in column 3 of item 1 of the table in point SCH6-B1 of Schedule 6;
(b)	$35;
(c)	$25.60.
Note:	Each of the amounts referred to in paragraphs (1)(a), (b) and (c) is subject to indexation (see Division 18 of Part IIIB for indexation of the amount referred to in paragraph (1)(a), and section 198 for indexation of the amounts in paragraphs (1)(b) and (c)).
(2)	Subject to subsection (3), the rate at which pension is payable under this Part to a dependant of a deceased veteran, being a person who is a child of the veteran, is:
(a)	if there is no widow or widower of the veteran—$88.80 per fortnight;
(b)	if there is a widow or widower of the veteran, but the child is not being maintained by a parent, adoptive parent or step-parent—$88.80 per fortnight; or
(c)	in any other case—$44.40 per fortnight.
(3)	Where, under the law:
(a)	of a foreign country; or
(b)	of a State;
a dependant of a deceased veteran is entitled to receive, or is in receipt of, periodical payments, or a lump-sum payment, in respect of the death of the veteran resulting from employment in connection with warlike operations in which the Crown has been engaged, the rate of those payments, or the amount of that payment, shall be taken into account in assessing the rate of pension payable under this Part so that the total payments to the dependant shall not exceed the total payments that the dependant would be entitled to receive under this Part if the dependant were not entitled to receive, or were not in receipt of, those periodical payments or that lump-sum payment.
	Division 5A — Effect of certain compensation payments on rates of pension
30A This Division does not apply to certain payments
This Division does not apply to:
(a)	a periodic payment or a lump sum payment referred to in paragraph 26(1)(b) or (2)(b) or subsection 30(3), whether the payment was made before or is made after the commencement of this section; or
(b)	an additional death benefit, or a severe injury adjustment, paid on or after 10 June 1997 in relation to a member of the Forces, or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, under a determination made under section 58B of the Defence Act 1903; or
(c)	an act of grace payment made on or after 10 June 1997 in respect of the death or injury of a member of the Forces, or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, where:
(i)	the death or injury occurred on or after 7 April 1994 and before 10 June 1997; and
(ii)	an additional death benefit, or a severe injury adjustment, would have been payable in relation to the member under a determination referred to in paragraph (b) if the death or injury had occurred on or after 10 June 1997.
30B Interpretation
(1)	In this Division, unless the contrary intention appears:
compensation includes:
(a)	any payment in the nature of compensation; and
(b)	any damages recoverable at law from the Commonwealth, a State, a Territory or any other person (whether within or outside Australia), in respect of injury to, or the death of, a person; and
(c)	any amount paid under a compromise or settlement of a claim for damages referred to in paragraph (b);
but does not include any amount that represents expenses incurred in medical or hospital treatment.
(2)	For the purposes of this Part, a payment of arrears of periodic compensation payments is not a lump sum compensation payment.
Note:	For lump sum payments of compensation see section 30C. For periodic payments of compensation see section 30D.
(3)	In sections 30G and 30H:
damages does not include an amount that has been paid under a notice under section 51 of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988.
(4)	In sections 30L and 30M:
international organisation means:
(a)	an organisation:
(i)	of which 2 or more countries, or the governments of 2 or more countries, are members; or
(ii)	that is constituted by persons representing 2 or more countries, or representing the governments of 2 or more countries; or
(b)	an organisation that is:
(i)	an organ of, or office within, an organisation described in paragraph (a); or
(ii)	a commission, council or other body established by an organisation so described or such an organ; or
(iii)	a committee, or subcommittee of a committee, of an organisation described in paragraph (a), or of such an organ, council or body.
30C Lump sum compensation payment
(1)	If:
(a)	a lump sum payment of compensation is made to a person who is a veteran or a dependant of the veteran; and
(b)	the compensation payment is paid in respect of the incapacity of the veteran from injury or disease or the death of the veteran; and
(c)	the person is receiving, or is subsequently granted, a pension under this Part in respect of the same incapacity of the veteran from that or any other injury or disease or in respect of that death;
the following provisions have effect:
(d)	the person is taken to have been, or to be, receiving payments of compensation at a rate per fortnight determined by, or under the instructions of, the Commonwealth Actuary;
(e)	the person is taken to have been, or to be, receiving those payments for the period of the person’s life determined by, or under the instructions of, the Commonwealth Actuary;
(f)	the period referred to in paragraph (e) begins:
(i)	on the day that lump sum payment is made to the person; or
(ii)	on the day the pension becomes payable to the person;
whichever is the earlier day.
Note 1:	Pensions under this Part are payable in respect of the incapacity of a veteran from a war-caused injury or disease or in respect of the death of the veteran (see section 13).
Note 2:	A payment of arrears of periodic compensation is not a lump sum compensation payment (see subsection 30B(2)).
Lump sum payment—Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988 (section 137)
(2)	If:
(a)	a lump sum payment is made under section 137 of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988 to a person who is a veteran or a dependant of the veteran; and
(b)	the payment is made in respect of the incapacity of the veteran from injury or disease or the death of the veteran; and
(c)	the person is receiving, or is subsequently granted, a pension under this Part in respect of the same incapacity of the veteran from that or any other injury or disease or in respect of that death;
the following provisions have effect:
(d)	the person is taken to have been, or to be, receiving payments of compensation at a rate per fortnight determined by, or under the instructions of, the Commonwealth Actuary;
(e)	the person is taken to have been, or to be, receiving those payments for the period of the person’s life determined by, or under the instructions of, the Commonwealth Actuary;
(f)	the period referred to in paragraph (e) begins:
(i)	on the day that lump sum compensation payment is made to that person; or
(ii)	on the day the pension becomes payable to the person;
whichever is the later day.
Note:	Pensions under this Part are payable in respect of the incapacity of a veteran from a war-caused injury or disease or in respect of the death of the veteran (see section 13).
Lump sum payment—Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988 (section 30)
(3)	If:
(a)	a lump sum payment is made under section 30 of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988 to a person who is a veteran or a dependant of the veteran; and
(b)	the payment is made in respect of the incapacity of the veteran from injury or disease or the death of the veteran; and
(c)	the person is receiving, or is subsequently granted, a pension under this Part in respect of the same incapacity of the veteran from that or any other injury or disease or in respect of that death;
the following provisions have effect:
(d)	the person is taken to have been, or to be, receiving payments of compensation at a rate per fortnight determined by, or under the instructions of, the Commonwealth Actuary;
(e)	the person is taken to have been, or to be, receiving those payments for the period until the person reaches 65;
(f)	the period referred to in paragraph (e) begins:
(i)	on the day that lump sum payment is made to the person; or
(ii)	on the day the pension becomes payable to the person;
whichever is the later day.
Note:	Pensions under this Part are payable in respect of the incapacity of a veteran from a war-caused injury or disease or in respect of the death of the veteran (see section 13).
Pension payable to one person
(4)	Subject to subsection (6), if:
(a)	a person is taken to be in receipt of payments of compensation at a particular rate per fortnight under subsection (1), (2) or (3); and
(b)	but for this subsection, pension referred to in paragraph (1)(c), (2)(c) or (3)(c) would be payable to the person at a particular rate per fortnight;
after the lump sum payment is made, the rate per fortnight of the pension is to be reduced by the rate per fortnight of compensation.
(5)	If, under subsection (4), the rate per fortnight of compensation is equal to or exceeds the rate per fortnight of pension, pension is not payable to the person.
Pension payable to 2 or more persons
(6)	If:
(a)	a lump sum payment is made to a person or persons in respect of the incapacity of a veteran from injury or disease or the death of the veteran; and
(b)	the person or persons are taken to be in receipt of compensation under subsection (1), (2) or (3); and
(c)	apart from this subsection, pensions under this Part in respect of the same incapacity of the veteran from that or any other injury or disease, or in respect of that death, would be payable to 2 or more persons at particular rates per fortnight;
after the lump sum payment is made, the sum of those rates per fortnight of pensions is to be reduced by the rate per fortnight of compensation that the person is, or the sum of the rates per fortnight of compensation that the persons are, taken to be in receipt of.
Note:	Subsections (8), (9) and (10) set out how the reduction is to be made.
(7)	If, under subsection (6), the rate or the sum of the rates per fortnight of compensation is equal to or exceeds the sum of the rates per fortnight of pensions, pensions are not payable to the persons.
How reduction is to be made
(8)	In giving effect to subsection (6), if:
(a)	pensions are payable to 2 or more persons; and
(b)	one pension is to be preferred to another under subsection (12);
the preferred pension is not to be reduced until the other pension ceases to be payable because its rate per fortnight is reduced to nil.
(9)	If:
(a)	the rate of a pension or the rates of 2 or more pensions are reduced to nil under subsection (8); and
(b)	there are 2 or more pensions that are not to be preferred to each other;
the reduction in the rate per fortnight for each of those pensions is to be worked out using the following formula:
where:
pension to be reduced is the rate per fortnight of the pension to be reduced.
pensions payable is the sum of the rates per fortnight of the pensions referred to in paragraph (b).
excess compensation payable is the rate per fortnight of compensation that is payable after the pension or pensions referred to in paragraph (a) are reduced to a nil rate.
(10)	If:
(a)	pensions are payable to 2 or more persons; and
(b)	subsections (8) and (9) do not apply;
the reduction in the rate per fortnight for each pension is to be worked out using the following formula:
where:
pension to be reduced is the rate per fortnight of the pension to be reduced.
total pensions payable is the sum of the rates per fortnight of pensions payable to the persons.
total compensation payable is the sum of the rates per fortnight of compensation that the persons are taken to be in receipt of.
(11)	If:
(a)	an amount of damages payable to a veteran, or to a dependant of a veteran, is paid to the Commonwealth under section 30G or 30H; or
(b)	the liability of the Commonwealth to pay damages to a veteran or to a dependant of a veteran, is, under section 30K, taken to have been discharged to the extent of a particular amount;
subsection (1) of this section applies to the veteran or the dependant as if pension commences to be payable, only after the veteran or dependant receives payments by way of instalments of pension equal to the amount referred to in paragraph (a) or (b).
Preferred pensions
(12)	For the purposes of this section:
(a)	a pension payable under this Part to the veteran is to be preferred to such a pension payable to a dependant of the veteran; and
(b)	a pension payable under this Part to a partner or non-illness separated spouse of a veteran is to be preferred to such a pension payable to a child of the veteran; and
(c)	a pension payable under this Part to the widow or widower of a deceased veteran is to be preferred to such a pension payable to a child of the veteran; and
(d)	a pension payable under this Part to an older child of a veteran is to be preferred to such a pension payable to a younger child of the veteran.
(13)	For the purposes of this section, a payment by way of compensation made on behalf of, or for the benefit of, a person is taken to have been made to the person.
30D Periodic payment of compensation
(1)	If:
(a)	periodic payments of compensation are made to a person who is a veteran or a dependant of the veteran; and
(b)	the compensation payments are made in respect of the incapacity of the veteran from injury or disease or the death of the veteran; and
(c)	the person receives, or is subsequently granted, a pension under this Part in respect of the same incapacity of the veteran from that or any other injury or disease or in respect of that death;
the rate per fortnight of the person’s pension that would, apart from this subsection, be payable to the person for the periodic payments period is to be reduced by the rate per fortnight of the periodic compensation.
Note 1:	For periodic payments period see subsection (10).
Note 2:	Pensions under this Part are payable in respect of the incapacity of a veteran from a war-caused injury or disease or in respect of the death of the veteran (see section 13).
(2)	If, under subsection (1), the rate per fortnight of the periodic compensation is equal to or exceeds the rate per fortnight of pension, pension is not payable to the person.
(2A)	However, if:
(a)	the person is a veteran who is receiving, or is granted, a pension under this Part at a rate provided for by subsection 22(4) or section 23, 24 or 25; and
(b)	the periodic payments of compensation are payments of compensation under Part 3 or 4 of Chapter 4 of the MRCA that are made on or after the date of commencement in respect of a period of incapacity that starts on or after that date;
the rate per fortnight of the person’s pension must not be reduced because of those payments below the rate per fortnight that would be payable to the person under subsection 22(2) if subsection 22(2) applied to the person.
Pension payable to 2 or more persons
(3)	If:
(a)	periodic payments of compensation are made to a person or persons in respect of the incapacity of a veteran from injury or disease or the death of the veteran; and
(b)	apart from this subsection, pensions under this Part in respect of the same incapacity of the veteran from that or any other injury or disease, or in respect of that death, would be payable to 2 or more persons for the periodic payments period at particular rates per fortnight;
the sum of those rates per fortnight of pensions for the periodic payments period is to be reduced by the rate per fortnight of the periodic compensation or the sum of the rates per fortnight of the periodic compensation.
Note:	Subsections (5), (6) and (7) set out how the reduction is to be made.
(4)	If, under subsection (3), the rate or the sum of the rates per fortnight of periodic compensation is equal to or exceeds the sum of the rates per fortnight of pensions, pensions are not payable to the persons.
How reduction is to be made
(5)	In giving effect to subsection (3), if:
(a)	pensions are payable to 2 or more persons; and
(b)	one pension is to be preferred to another under subsection (8);
the preferred pension is not to be reduced until the other pension ceases to be payable because its rate per fortnight is reduced to nil.
(6)	In giving effect to subsection (3), if:
(a)	the rate of a pension or the rates of 2 or more pensions are reduced to nil under subsection (5); and
(b)	there are 2 or more pensions that are not to be preferred to each other;
the reduction in the rate per fortnight for each of those pensions is to be worked out using the following formula:
where:
pension to be reduced is the rate per fortnight of the pension to be reduced.
pensions payable is the sum of the rates per fortnight of the pensions referred to in paragraph (b).
excess compensation payable is the rate per fortnight of periodic compensation that is payable after the pension or pensions referred to in paragraph (a) are reduced to a nil rate.
(7)	If:
(a)	pensions are payable to 2 or more persons; and
(b)	subsections (5) and (6) do not apply;
the reduction in the rate per fortnight for each pension is to be worked out using the following formula:
where:
pension to be reduced is the rate per fortnight of the pension to be reduced.
pensions payable is the sum of the rates per fortnight of pensions payable to the persons.
compensation payable is the sum of the rates per fortnight of periodic compensation that is payable to the persons.
Preferred pensions
(8)	For the purposes of this section:
(a)	a pension payable under this Part to the veteran is to be preferred to such a pension payable to a dependant of the veteran; and
(b)	a pension payable under this Part to a partner or non-illness separated spouse of a veteran is to be preferred to such a pension payable to a child of the veteran; and
(c)	a pension payable under this Part to the widow or widower of a veteran is to be preferred to such a pension payable to a child of the veteran; and
(d)	a pension payable under this Part to an older child of a veteran is to be preferred to such a pension payable to a younger child of the veteran.
(9)	For the purposes of this section, a payment by way of compensation made on behalf of, or for the benefit of, a person is taken to have been made to the person.
(10)	In this section:
periodic payments period means:
(a)	the period to which a periodic compensation payment, or a series of periodic compensation payments, relates; or
(b)	in the case of a payment of arrears of periodic compensation payments—the period to which those payments would have related if they had not been made by way of arrears payment.
30E Proceedings against third party
If:
(a)	a pension is payable or has been paid under this Part in respect of:
(i)	the incapacity of a veteran from a war-caused injury or disease; or
(ii)	the death of a veteran; and
(b)	a person other than the Commonwealth appears legally liable to pay damages in respect of the same incapacity of the veteran from that or any other injury or disease or in respect of that death; and
(c)	the veteran, a dependant of the veteran or a person on behalf of the dependant has:
(i)	not instituted proceedings against the person for the recovery of damages in respect of the same incapacity of the veteran or in respect of that death; or
(ii)	not properly prosecuted proceedings that have been instituted; or
(iii)	discontinued proceedings that have been instituted;
the Commission may, by written notice, request the veteran or dependant:
(d)	to institute proceedings or new proceedings against the person; or
(e)	properly to prosecute proceedings against the person.
30F Failure to comply with Commission’s request made under section 30E
(1)	If, within a reasonable time after a notice under section 30E is given to a veteran or a dependant of a veteran, the veteran or dependant:
(a)	refuses or fails to institute proceedings; or
(b)	discontinues proceedings that have been instituted;
the Commission may, on behalf of the veteran or dependant, institute proceedings or new proceedings against the person for recovery of damages in respect of the incapacity or death.
(2)	If, within a reasonable time after a notice is given, a veteran or a dependant of a veteran fails to prosecute properly proceedings that have been instituted, the Commission may take over the conduct of the proceedings.
(3)	If a veteran or a dependant of a veteran institutes proceedings under a notice but refuses or fails to prosecute the proceedings properly, the Commonwealth may take over the conduct of the proceedings.
Commonwealth liability to pay costs
(4)	The Commonwealth is liable to pay all the plaintiff’s costs of, or incidental to, the proceedings. The Commonwealth is not liable to pay costs that the plaintiff unreasonably incurs.
Commonwealth may settle etc. proceedings
(5)	If the Commonwealth:
(a)	institutes proceedings; or
(b)	takes over the conduct of the proceedings;
the Commonwealth may:
(c)	settle the proceedings, with or without obtaining judgment; and
(d)	if a favourable judgment is given in favour of the plaintiff—take such steps as are necessary to enforce that judgment.
Veteran or dependant of veteran must sign all documents relating to proceedings
(6)	The veteran, or a dependant of the veteran, must sign any document relevant to the proceedings, including settlement of the proceedings, that the Commonwealth requires the veteran or the dependant to sign.
(7)	If the veteran or the dependant fails to sign any such document, the court or tribunal in which the proceedings are being held may direct that the document be signed on his or her behalf by a person appointed by the court or tribunal for that purpose.
30G Payment of damages by third party to Commonwealth
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), if:
(a)	a pension is payable or has been paid under this Part in respect of:
(i)	the incapacity of a veteran from a war-caused injury or disease; or
(ii)	the death of the veteran; and
(b)	a person other than the Commonwealth appears to be legally liable to pay damages in respect of the same incapacity of the veteran from that or any other injury or disease or in respect of that death;
the Commission may, by written notice to the person, require the person to pay to the Commonwealth a specified amount of the damages.
Note:	Damages in this section do not include certain amounts paid under the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988 (see subsection 30B(3)).
(2)	The specified amount must not exceed the total amount of pension paid under this Part, up to the time the payment of damages is made to the Commonwealth, to the veteran or dependant in respect of the incapacity or death.
(3)	The person must comply with the notice if:
(a)	the person agrees to pay damages to a veteran or dependant in respect of the incapacity or the death; or
(b)	damages against the person are awarded to the veteran or dependant in proceedings instituted in respect of the incapacity or death.
30H Payment of damages by third party where agreement, or an award against the person, to pay damages has been made
(1)	Subject to subsection (4), if:
(a)	pension is payable or has been paid under this Part in respect of:
(i)	the incapacity of a veteran from a war-caused injury or disease; or
(ii)	the death of a veteran; and
(b)	an amount of damages is payable by a person other than the Commonwealth in respect of the same incapacity of the veteran from that or any other injury or disease or in respect of that death because:
(i)	the person agreed to pay such damages; or
(ii)	damages against the person were awarded to the veteran or dependant in proceedings instituted in respect of the same incapacity of the veteran or in respect of that death;
the Commission may, by written notice to the person, require the person to pay to the Commonwealth a specified amount of the damages.
Note:	Damages in this section do not include certain amounts paid under the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988 (see subsection 30B(3)).
(2)	The specified amount must not exceed the total amount of pension paid under this Part, up to the time the payment of damages is made to the Commonwealth, to the veteran or dependant in respect of the incapacity or death.
(3)	The person must comply with the notice.
Effect of notice where damages already paid
(4)	If, before a notice under subsection (1) was received by a person, the person had paid to, or in respect of, the veteran or dependant the whole or any part of the damages to which the notice relates, then:
(a)	if the whole of the damages had been paid—the notice has no force or effect; or
(b)	if part of the damages had been paid—the specified amount of damages is the amount of damages that has not been paid.
30I Debt due to the Commonwealth
If a person fails to pay an amount to the Commonwealth under a notice under section 30G or 30H, the Commonwealth may recover the amount from the person as a debt due to the Commonwealth by action in a court of competent jurisdiction.
30J Discharge of liability
The payment of an amount to the Commonwealth under a notice under section 30G or 30H is, to the extent of the amount paid, a discharge of the liability of that person to the veteran or the dependant.
30K Discharge of liability of Commonwealth to pay damages
If:
(a)	pension is payable, or has been paid, under this Part in respect of:
(i)	the incapacity of a veteran from a war-caused injury or disease; or
(ii)	the death of a veteran; and
(b)	damages have been awarded against the Commonwealth:
(i)	to a veteran in proceedings instituted to recover damages in respect of the same incapacity of the veteran from that or any other injury or disease; or
(ii)	to a dependant of a deceased veteran in proceedings instituted to recover damages in respect of the death of the veteran; and
the liability of the Commonwealth to pay those damages (excluding any part of them that represents expenses incurred in medical or hospital treatment) is taken to have been discharged to the extent of the total of the amounts of the pension that have been paid to the veteran or the dependant.
30L Other payments of compensation
If:
(a)	any pension has been paid under this Part in respect of:
(i)	the incapacity of the veteran from war-caused injury or disease; or
(ii)	the death of the veteran; and
(b)	any compensation is paid:
(i)	under the law of a country other than Australia; or
(ii)	by, or under a scheme arranged by, an international organisation;
to, or in respect of:
(iii)	a veteran in respect of the same incapacity of the veteran from that or any other injury or disease; or
(iv)	a dependant of a deceased veteran in respect of the death of the veteran;
the Commonwealth may recover from the veteran or dependant, by action in a court of competent jurisdiction, an amount equal to the amount of compensation paid that does not exceed the total of the pension paid under this Part to the veteran or dependant.
Note:	For international organisation see subsection 30B(4).
30M Commission may require a statutory declaration
The Commission may, by notice in writing to a claimant or recipient of a pension under this Part, require the person to give the Commission, within a reasonable period specified in the notice, a statutory declaration stating whether any compensation:
(a)	has been paid to, or in respect of, the person; or
(b)	has been claimed by, or in respect of, the person;
under a law of a country other than Australia, or under a scheme arranged by an international organisation in respect of the same incapacity or death for which the person claims or receives a pension under this Part.
Note:	For international organisation see subsection 30B(4).
30N Failure to comply with statutory declaration requirement
(1)	If a person refuses or fails to comply with a notice given under section 30M, the person’s right:
(a)	to pension under this Part in respect of the incapacity or death to which the notice relates; and
(b)	to institute or take any proceedings under this Act in relation to that pension or a claim for that pension;
is suspended until the statutory declaration has been given to the Commission.
(2)	If a person’s right to pension under this Part is suspended under subsection (1), the person is not entitled to be paid pension under this Part for the period of the suspension.
30P Overpayments of pension
(1)	If:
(a)	an amount of pension is payable or has been paid under this Part in respect of:
(i)	the incapacity of the veteran from a war-caused injury or disease; or
(ii)	the death of the veteran; and
(b)	because of section 25A, 30C or 30D, that amount of pension was not payable to the veteran or dependant;
an amount equal to the amount of pension paid is recoverable from the veteran or dependant.
(2)	The amount may be recovered, either in whole or in part, by deduction from any amount of pension payable under this Part to the veteran or dependant.
(3)	Subsection (2) does not prevent the recovery of the amount in a manner other than the one provided for in that subsection. An amount is not to be recovered as provided and also in a manner that is not provided for in subsection (2).
	Division 6 — Reconsideration of decisions by Commission
31 Commission may initiate reconsideration of decisions
(1)	This section applies in relation to any decision of the Commission in respect of the following claims or applications (including a decision under section 20 or 21 but not a decision under subsection 19A(1)):
(a)	a claim for a pension under section 14;
(b)	an application for a pension, or for an increased pension, under section 15;
(c)	an application for attendant allowance under section 98.
(2)	Section 347 of the MRCA applies in relation to the decision as if the decision were an original determination made by the Commission.
Note:	This means that the Commission may, on its own initiative, reconsider the decision.
(3)	If a determination (the reconsideration determination) is made under subsection 347(3) of the MRCA because of the operation of subsection (2) of this section, section 346 of the MRCA applies in relation to the reconsideration determination as if:
(a)	the reconsideration determination were an original determination made by the Commission; and
(b)	a person in respect of whom the reconsideration determination was made were the claimant.
Note:	This means that the Commission must give notice of the reconsideration determination.
	Division 7 — Procedural
32 Commission may take evidence
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), the Commission may, for the purposes of its consideration of a claim submitted to it in accordance with subsection 17(2) or of its reconsideration under section 31 of a decision in relation to a pension or attendant allowance:
(a)	summon a person to appear before the Commission to give evidence and produce such documents (if any) as are referred to in the summons;
(b)	take evidence on oath or affirmation;
(c)	request:
(i)	in the case of consideration of a claim—the claimant or the Secretary; or
(ii)	in the case of a reconsideration under section 31—a person likely to be affected by the reconsideration or the Secretary;
to furnish to the Commission material believed to be under his or her control and relevant to the determination of the claim, or the reconsideration of the decision; and
(d)	request:
(i)	in the case of consideration of a claim—the claimant; or
(ii)	in the case of a reconsideration under section 31—the person likely to be affected by the reconsideration;
to attend before the Commission for a discussion of the claim, or of the reconsideration, as the case may be, or to discuss the claim, or the reconsideration, as the case may be, with the Commission by telephone.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not authorize the Commission to summon:
(a)	for the purpose of its consideration of a claim—the claimant; or
(b)	for the purpose of a reconsideration under section 31—a person likely to be affected by the reconsideration;
to appear before the Commission to give evidence or to produce documents.
(3)	Where a claimant requests the Commission for an opportunity:
(a)	to attend before the Commission and discuss the claim with the Commission; or
(b)	to discuss the claim with the Commission by telephone;
the Commission shall, if it is of the opinion that the request is in all the circumstances reasonable, comply with the request.
(4)	The oath or affirmation to be taken or made by a person for the purposes of this section is an oath or affirmation that the evidence the person will give will be true.
(5)	The powers and duties of the Commission under this section may be exercised or performed on behalf of the Commission:
(a)	in relation to a claim—by a person to whom the Commission has delegated its powers under section 19; or
(b)	in relation to a reconsideration under section 31—by a person to whom the Commission has delegated its powers under that section;
and, for the purpose of the exercise of those powers or the performance of those duties, subsections (1), (2) and (3) and (6) to (10), inclusive, of this section have effect as if a reference to the Commission included a reference to that person.
(6)	A person who has been summoned to appear as a witness before the Commission shall not, after tender of reasonable expenses, fail to appear in answer to the summons.
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 6 months or 10 penalty units, or both.
(6A)	An offence under subsection (6) is an offence of strict liability.
Note:	For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code.
(7)	A person who appears before the Commission as a witness in answer to a summons shall not refuse to be sworn or make an affirmation.
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 6 months or 10 penalty units, or both.
(8)	Subject to subsection (9), a person who appears before the Commission as a witness, otherwise than in answer to a summons, may be requested by the Commission to give evidence on oath, and, if the person declines to be sworn or make an affirmation, the person’s evidence shall not be received.
(9)	Subsection (8) does not apply to a person who attends before the Commission for a discussion of a claim or reconsideration at the request of the Commission under subsection (1) or at his or her own request under subsection (3) or has a discussion with the Commission by telephone under subsection (3).
(10)	A person who has been sworn, or made an affirmation, as a witness before the Commission shall not refuse to produce documents or to answer a question that the person is required to answer by the Commission.
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 6 months or 10 penalty units, or both.
(11)	A person who has been sworn, or made an affirmation, as a witness before the Commission shall not give evidence that is false or misleading in a material particular.
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 12 months or 20 penalty units, or both.
(11A)	A person does not commit an offence under this section if the person has a reasonable excuse.
Note:	The defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (11A). See subsection 13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
(12)	In this section:
claim includes application.
claimant includes applicant.
33 Withdrawal of claim or application
(1)	A claimant or applicant may, at any time before the claim or application is determined by the Commission, by notice in writing lodged in accordance with section 5T, withdraw the claim or application.
(2)	The withdrawal of a claim or application does not prevent the claimant from subsequently making another claim under section 14, or the applicant from subsequently making another application under section 15.
34 Reasons for decisions to be given
(1)	Where the Commission makes a decision:
(a)	with respect to a claim for a pension in accordance with section 14, or an application for a pension or increased pension in accordance with section 15;
(b)	by way of assessing the rate of a pension or attendant allowance, or determining the date of commencement or cessation of a pension or attendant allowance;
the Commission shall make a written record of its decision together with a statement in writing setting out its findings on material questions of fact, referring to the evidence or other material on which those findings are based and giving its reasons for the decision.
(2)	As soon as practicable after the Commission makes a decision referred to in subsection (1), the Commission shall, subject to subsection (3), cause to be served:
(a)	in the case of a decision in respect of a claim or application—on the claimant or applicant; or
(b)	in the case of a decision of a kind referred to in paragraph (1)(b)—on the person affected by the decision;
a copy of its decision and of the statement relating to the decision made by it in accordance with subsection (1), together with particulars of the right of the person on whom it is served to have the decision reviewed by the Board.
(3)	Where the statement prepared by the Commission in pursuance of subsection (1) upon the making of a decision referred to in that subsection contains or refers to any information, opinion or other matter:
(a)	that, in the opinion of the Commission, is of a confidential nature; or
(b)	that, in the opinion of the Commission, it might be prejudicial to the physical or mental health or well-being of the person on whom a copy of the statement is required to be served to communicate to that person;
the document served on the person in pursuance of subsection (2) shall not contain or refer to that information, opinion or matter.
Part III—Service pensions
	Division 1 — General features
35 Order and structure of Divisions
(1)	In this Part:
(a)	Division 2 deals with establishing qualifying service; and
(b)	Divisions 3, 4 and 5 deal with the 3 kinds of service pension (age, invalidity and partner service pension respectively).
(2)	In Divisions 3, 4 and 5 (dealing with each kind of service pension) this is the order in which the provisions are presented:
(a)	eligibility provisions (who is entitled to the pension);
(b)	claim provisions (how a claim is made);
(c)	rates provisions (how much the payment will be).
(3)	Other relevant provisions are referred to in notes at the bottom of key provisions in the Division.
35A Eligibility for and payability of service pension
Before a person can be paid a service pension under this Part:
(a)	the person must be eligible for the pension; and
(b)	there must be nothing in this Act that makes the pension not payable to the person (for example, a dual pension provision): the pension must be payable to the person.
	Division 2 — Establishing qualifying service
Subdivision A—Pathways to establishing qualifying service
35B Pathways to establishing qualifying service
(1)	To establish that a veteran has rendered qualifying service:
(a)	a proper claim must be made for a determination that the veteran has rendered such service; or
(b)	there must be a determination in force under section 35BA in respect of the veteran.
Note 1:	A veteran must have rendered qualifying service to be eligible for age service pension or invalidity service pension: see subsections 36(1) and 37(1).
Note 2:	A claim is not required for a determination under section 35BA.
Note 3:	For qualifying service see section 7A.
(2)	To establish for the purposes of paragraph 38(1)(aa) or (e) that a person’s partner or deceased partner has rendered qualifying service:
(a)	a proper claim must be made for a determination that the person’s partner or deceased partner has rendered such service; or
(b)	there must be a determination in force under section 35BA in respect of the person’s partner or deceased partner.
Note 1:	For a person to be eligible for a partner service pension under paragraph 38(1)(aa) or (e), the person’s partner or deceased partner needs to be a veteran who rendered qualifying service.
Note 2:	A claim is not required for a determination under section 35BA.
Note 3:	For qualifying service see section 7A.
35BA Commission determination without the need for a claim
(1)	The Commission may make a written determination that a specified veteran has rendered qualifying service if the Commission is satisfied that the veteran has rendered such service.
Note 1:	A claim is not required for a determination under this section.
Note 2:	For qualifying service see section 7A.
(2)	The Commission must give a copy of the determination to:
(a)	the veteran; or
(b)	the person described in paragraph 38(1)(aa) or (e) in relation to the veteran.
(3)	A determination by the Commission under this section that a veteran has rendered qualifying service is proof, for all purposes of this Act, that the veteran has rendered qualifying service.
(4)	A determination under this section is not a legislative instrument.
35C Who can claim?
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), a claim for a qualifying service determination must be made by:
(a)	the veteran who wants to establish that he or she has rendered qualifying service; or
(b)	with the approval of the veteran—another person on the veteran’s behalf; or
(c)	a person who wants to establish for the purposes of paragraph 38(1)(aa) or (e) that his or her partner or deceased partner has rendered qualifying service; or
(d)	with the approval of the person referred to in paragraph (c) of this subsection—another person on the person’s behalf.
(2)	If the veteran is unable, because of physical or mental incapacity, to approve another person to make the claim on his or her behalf, the Commission may approve another person to make the claim.
35D Making a claim
(1)	To be a proper claim, the claim must be:
(a)	made in writing; and
(b)	in accordance with a form approved by the Commission; and
(c)	accompanied by any evidence available to the claimant that the claimant considers may be relevant to the claim; and
(d)	lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(2)	A claim lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
35F Claim may be withdrawn
(1)	A claimant for qualifying service or a person on behalf of a claimant may withdraw a claim that has not been determined.
(2)	A claim that is withdrawn is taken to have not been made.
(3)	A withdrawal may be made either orally or by document lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
35FB Oral withdrawal of a claim
An oral withdrawal of a claim must be made to a person in an office of the Department in Australia.
35FC Acknowledgment of oral withdrawal of a claim
As soon as practicable after receiving an oral withdrawal of a claim, the Secretary must give the claimant an acknowledgment notice in writing stating that:
(a)	an oral withdrawal of the claim was made; and
(b)	the claimant, or a person on behalf of the claimant, may, within 28 days from the day the acknowledgment notice is given, request the Secretary to treat the withdrawal as if it had not been made.
35FD Reactivating the withdrawn claim
If, within 28 days from the day on which the Secretary gave the acknowledgment notice, a claimant, or a person on behalf of a claimant, requests the Secretary to treat the oral withdrawal of the claim as if it had not been made, the oral withdrawal is taken not to have been made.
Note:	A request made under paragraph 35FC(b) has the effect of reactivating the claim. In particular, the commencement day of the claim stays the same.
Subdivision B—Investigation of claim
35G Secretary to investigate claim and submit it to Commission
(1)	If a veteran makes a proper claim for a determination that he or she has rendered qualifying service, the Secretary must cause an investigation to be made into the matters to which the claim relates.
(2)	When the investigation is completed, the Secretary must cause the claim to be submitted to the Commission for consideration and determination.
(3)	When the claim is submitted to the Commission it must be accompanied by:
(a)	any evidence supplied by the claimant in support of the claim; and
(b)	any documents or other evidence obtained by the Department in the course of the investigation that are relevant to the claim; and
(c)	any other documents or other evidence under the control of the Department that are relevant to the claim.
Subdivision C—Consideration and determination of claim
35H Duties of Commission in relation to claim
Determination of claim
(1)	When the claim is submitted to the Commission, the Commission must consider all matters that are, in the Commission’s opinion, relevant to the claim and must then determine the claim.
(2)	In considering the claim, the Commission must:
(a)	satisfy itself with respect to; or
(b)	determine;
(as the case requires) all matters relevant to the determination of the claim.
(3)	Without limiting subsection (1), the Commission, in considering the claim, must consider:
(a)	the evidence submitted with the claim under section 35G; and
(b)	any further evidence subsequently submitted to the Commission in relation to the claim.
Record of determination and reasons
(4)	When the Commission determines the claim it must make a written record of its determination.
(5)	The Commission must also make a statement in writing about the determination that:
(a)	sets out the Commission’s findings on material questions of fact; and
(b)	refers to the evidence or other material on which those findings are based; and
(c)	provides reasons for the Commission’s determination.
Notification of determination
(6)	As soon as practicable after the Commission determines a claim under subsection (1), the Commission must give the person who made the claim:
(a)	a copy of the record of the Commission’s determination; and
(b)	subject to subsection (7), a copy of the statement about the determination referred to in subsection (5); and
(c)	particulars of the right of the person who made the claim to have the determination reviewed by the Commission.
(7)	If the statement referred to in paragraph (6)(b) contains any matter that, in the opinion of the Commission:
(a)	is of a confidential nature; or
(b)	might, if communicated to the person who made the claim, be prejudicial to his or her physical or mental health or well-being;
the copy given to the person is not to contain that matter.
Note:	A claimant may apply to the Commission for review of a determination made under this section (see Division 16 of Part IIIB).
35J Determination of qualifying service to be proof of qualifying service
A determination by the Commission under section 35H that a veteran has rendered qualifying service is proof, for all purposes of this Act, that the veteran has rendered qualifying service.
Note:	This provision also applies to a decision of the Administrative Review Tribunal that a person has rendered qualifying service. This is because subsection 108(2) of the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024 provides that the Tribunal’s decision is taken to be the decision of the original decision-maker (in this case, the Commission).
	Division 3 — Age service pension
Subdivision A—Eligibility for and payability of age service pension
36 Eligibility for age service pension
(1)	Subject to subsection (4), a person is eligible for an age service pension if the person:
(a)	is a veteran; and
(b)	has rendered qualifying service; and
(c)	has reached pension age.
Note 1A:	For veteran see subsection 5C(1).
Note 1:	For qualifying service see section 7A.
Note 2:	For pension age see section 5QA.
Additional eligibility criterion for Commonwealth veterans, allied veterans and allied mariners
(2)	Subject to subsection (2A), a person who is a veteran by reason only of being a Commonwealth veteran, an allied veteran or an allied mariner must, in addition to meeting the requirements of subsection (1), have been an Australian resident for a continuous period of at least 10 years.
(2A)	Subsection (2) does not apply to:
(a)	a refugee; or
(b)	a former refugee.
(3)	Where:
(a)	a veteran has been an Australian resident during more than one period; and
(b)	the longer or longest of those periods is less than 10 years but is not less than 5 years; and
(c)	the aggregate of those periods is more than 10 years;
in the application of subsection (2) to the veteran, the period of 10 years specified in that subsection is to be reduced by a period equal to the period by which the aggregate is more than 10 years.
(4)	If:
(a)	a veteran lodges a proper claim for an age service pension before meeting the eligibility requirements referred to in subsection (1); and
(b)	the veteran ceases to be an Australian resident after lodging the claim and before the claim is determined;
the veteran is not eligible for age service pension unless:
(c)	the day on which the veteran met all the eligibility requirements; and
(d)	the day from which age service pension would, if the claim were granted, be payable;
are earlier than the day on which the veteran ceased to be an Australian resident.
36A Age service pension may not be payable in some circumstances
(1)	Even though a veteran is eligible for an age service pension, the pension may not be payable to the veteran because:
(a)	the pension has not commenced to be payable (see section 36B); or
(b)	the veteran is in gaol or in psychiatric confinement (see sections 55 and 55A); or
(c)	the veteran is receiving another pension (see section 36C); or
(d)	the pension is cancelled or suspended:
(i)	under this Act (see sections 56E, 56EA, 56J and 56K); or
(ii)	under Part 3C (schooling requirements) of the Social Security (Administration) Act 1999; or
Note:	See section 124E of the Social Security (Administration) Act 1999.
(e)	the person has not provided a tax file number for the person or the person’s partner (see section 128A).
(2)	Subject to subsections (3) and (4), an age service pension is not payable to a veteran if the veteran’s age service pension rate would be nil.
Note:	A veteran whose rate might otherwise be nil under the Rate Calculator may not have a nil rate after the application of the financial hardship provisions (sections 52Y and 52Z).
(3)	Subsection (2) does not apply to a veteran if the veteran’s rate would be nil merely because:
(a)	an election by the veteran under subsection 60A(1) is in force; or
(b)	the veteran has been paid an advance pharmaceutical allowance under Part 2.23 of the Social Security Act.
(4)	Subsection (2) does not apply to a veteran if the veteran’s rate is nil merely because of the operation of Part IVA.
36B Age service pension generally not payable before claim
Provisional commencement day
(1)	An age service pension is not payable to a veteran before the veteran’s provisional commencement day.
(1A)	Subject to subsection (2), a veteran’s provisional commencement day is the day on which the veteran claims the age service pension.
Initial incorrect claim followed by proper claim
(2)	If:
(a)	a veteran makes a claim (in this subsection called the initial claim) for age service pension; and
(b)	the claim is not a proper claim; and
(c)	on the day on which the veteran makes the initial claim, the veteran is eligible for age service pension; and
(d)	the veteran subsequently makes a proper claim:
(i)	within 3 months after being notified that the initial claim was not a proper claim; or
(ii)	if the veteran was not so notified—at any time;
then the veteran’s provisional commencement day is the day on which the initial claim was lodged.
36C Restrictions on dual pensions
An age service pension is not payable to a veteran if the veteran is receiving:
(a)	another service pension; or
(aa)	a veteran payment; or
(b)	a social security pension; or
(c)	a social security benefit.
Note:	Social security benefit includes jobseeker payment.
36CA Exclusion of certain participants in ABSTUDY Scheme
If:
(a)	a payment is made in respect of a person under the ABSTUDY Scheme; and
(b)	the payment is made on the basis that the person is a full-time student; and
(c)	in the calculation of the payment, an amount identified as living allowance is included; and
(d)	the payment relates to a period;
age service pension is not payable to the person in respect of any part of the period.
Subdivision B—Claim for age service pension
36D Need for a claim
A veteran who wants to be granted an age service pension must make a proper claim for that pension.
36E Who can claim?
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), the claim must be made by:
(a)	the veteran who wants to be granted the age service pension; or
(b)	with the approval of the veteran—another person on the veteran’s behalf.
(2)	If the veteran is unable, because of physical or mental incapacity, to approve another person to make the claim on his or her behalf, the Commission may approve another person to make the claim.
36F Making a claim
(1)	To be a proper claim, the claim must be:
(a)	made in writing; and
(b)	in accordance with a form approved by the Commission; and
(c)	accompanied by any evidence available to the claimant that the claimant considers may be relevant to the claim; and
(d)	lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(2)	The approved form may require the claimant to disclose whether the claimant is registered as a member of:
(a)	the pension bonus scheme (see Part IIIAB); or
(b)	the corresponding scheme under Part 2.2A of the Social Security Act.
(3)	A claim lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
36H Claimant must be Australian resident and in Australia
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), a claim is not a proper claim unless the veteran making the claim, or on whose behalf the claim is being made, is:
(a)	an Australian resident; and
(b)	in Australia;
on the day on which the claim is lodged.
Note:	For Australian resident see section 5G.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not apply to a veteran’s claim if:
(a)	the veteran is outside Australia and is receiving:
(i)	invalidity service pension; or
(ii)	partner service pension; or
(iii)	income support supplement; or
(iiia)	veteran payment; or
(iv)	a social security pension; and
(b)	the veteran would, if that pension, supplement or payment were cancelled, be eligible for age service pension.
Note 1:	If the veteran ceases to be an Australian resident after having made a proper claim and after having met all the eligibility requirements (section 36), the veteran’s eligibility is not affected.
Note 2:	For social security pension see subsection 5Q(1).
36J Claim may be withdrawn
(1)	A claimant for age service pension or a person on behalf of a claimant may withdraw a claim that has not been determined.
(2)	A claim that is withdrawn is taken to have not been made.
(3)	A withdrawal may be made either orally or by document lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
36JB Oral withdrawal of a claim
An oral withdrawal of a claim must be made to a person in an office of the Department in Australia.
36JC Acknowledgment of oral withdrawal of a claim
As soon as practicable after receiving an oral withdrawal of a claim, the Secretary must give the claimant an acknowledgment notice in writing stating that:
(a)	an oral withdrawal of the claim was made; and
(b)	the claimant, or a person on behalf of the claimant, may, within 28 days from the day the acknowledgment notice is given, request the Secretary to treat the withdrawal as if it had not been made.
36JD Reactivating the withdrawn claim
If, within 28 days from the day on which the Secretary gave the acknowledgment notice, a claimant, or a person on behalf of a claimant, requests the Secretary to treat the oral withdrawal of the claim as if it had not been made, the oral withdrawal is taken not to have been made.
Note:	A request made under paragraph 36JC(b) has the effect of reactivating the claim. In particular, the commencement day of the claim stays the same.
36JE Secretary may require claimant or claimant’s partner to take action to obtain a comparable foreign pension
(1)	If:
(a)	a person has claimed an age service pension; and
(b)	the Secretary is satisfied that the claimant may be entitled to a comparable foreign pension if the claimant applied for that pension;
the Secretary may give the claimant a notice that requires the claimant to take reasonable action to obtain the comparable foreign pension.
(1A)	If:
(a)	a person has claimed an age service pension; and
(b)	the Secretary is satisfied that the claimant’s partner (if any) may be entitled to a comparable foreign pension if the partner applied for that pension;
the Secretary may give the claimant a notice that requires the partner to take reasonable action to obtain the comparable foreign pension.
(2)	A notice under subsection (1) or (1A):
(a)	must be in writing; and
(b)	must be given personally or by post; and
(c)	must specify the period within which the reasonable action is to be taken.
(3)	The period specified under paragraph (2)(c) must end at least 14 days after the day on which the notice is given.
(4)	The Commission may reject a claim if:
(a)	the claimant is given a notice under subsection (1) or (1A); and
(b)	the Commission is satisfied that the claimant, or the claimant’s partner, has not taken reasonable action to obtain the comparable foreign pension within the period specified in the notice.
(5)	For the purposes of this section, a person takes reasonable action to obtain a comparable foreign pension only if the person takes reasonable action to obtain the pension at the highest rate applicable to the person.
Subdivision C—Investigation of claim
36K Secretary to investigate claim and submit it to Commission
(1)	If a person makes a proper claim for age service pension, the Secretary must cause an investigation to be made into the matters to which the claim relates.
(2)	When the investigation is completed, the Secretary must cause the claim to be submitted to the Commission for consideration and determination.
(3)	When the claim is submitted to the Commission it must be accompanied by:
(a)	any evidence supplied by the claimant in support of the claim; and
(b)	any documents or other evidence obtained by the Department in the course of the investigation that are relevant to the claim; and
(c)	any other documents or other evidence under the control of the Department that are relevant to the claim.
Subdivision D—Consideration and determination of claim
36L Duties of Commission in relation to claim
Determination of claim
(1)	When the claim is submitted to the Commission, the Commission must:
(a)	consider the claim; and
(b)	satisfy itself with respect to all matters relevant to the determination of the claim; and
(c)	determine all matters requiring determination before the claim can be determined; and
(d)	determine the claim as provided by subsection (4).
(3)	Without limiting subsection (1), the Commission, in considering the claim, must consider:
(a)	the evidence submitted with the claim under section 36K; and
(b)	any further evidence subsequently submitted to the Commission in relation to the claim.
(4)	The Commission must determine the claim as follows:
(a)	first, the Commission must determine whether the pension is to be granted to the person; and
(b)	if the Commission determines that the pension is to be granted to the person, the Commission then must:
(i)	work out the person’s age service pension rate under section 36N; and
(ii)	determine that the pension is payable to the person at that rate.
Record of determination and reasons
(5)	When the Commission determines the claim it must make a written record of its determination.
(6)	The Commission must also make a statement in writing about the determination that:
(a)	sets out the Commission’s findings on material questions of fact; and
(b)	refers to the evidence or other material on which those findings are based; and
(c)	provides reasons for the Commission’s determination.
Notification of determination
(7)	As soon as practicable after the Commission determines a claim under subsection (1), the Commission must give the person who made the claim:
(a)	a copy of the record of the Commission’s determination; and
(b)	subject to subsection (8), a copy of the statement about the determination referred to in subsection (6); and
(c)	particulars of the right of the person who made the claim to have the determination reviewed by the Commission.
(8)	If the statement referred to in paragraph (7)(b) contains any matter that, in the opinion of the Commission:
(a)	is of a confidential nature; or
(b)	might, if communicated to the person who made the claim, be prejudicial to his or her physical or mental health or well-being;
the copy given to the person is not to contain that matter.
Note:	A claimant may apply to the Commission for review of a determination made under this section (see Division 16 of Part IIIB).
36M Date of effect of determination
If the Commission determines under section 36L that age service pension is payable to the person:
(a)	the determination takes effect on the day on which the determination is made or on such later or earlier day as is specified in the determination; and
(b)	subject to this Act, age service pension is payable to the person at the rate specified in the determination.
Note:	Age service pension is not payable to a person who is receiving another service pension or a social security pension or benefit (see section 36C).
Subdivision E—Rate of age service pension
36N How to work out the rate of a veteran’s age service pension
A veteran’s age service pension rate is worked out in accordance with the Rate Calculator.
Note 1:	Module A of the Rate Calculator establishes the overall rate calculation process and the remaining Modules provide for the calculation of the component amounts used in the overall rate calculation process.
Note 2:	The rate obtained by applying the Rate Calculator may be reduced because of the receipt of payments under a self-employment program (see Division 9 of Part IIIB).
	Division 4 — Invalidity service pension
Subdivision A—Eligibility for and payability of invalidity service pension
37 Eligibility for invalidity service pension
(1)	Subject to subsection (6), a person is eligible for an invalidity service pension if the person:
(a)	is a veteran; and
(b)	has rendered qualifying service; and
(c)	is permanently incapacitated for work in accordance with a determination under section 37AA.
Note 1:	For veteran see subsection 5C(1).
Note 2:	For qualifying service see section 7A.
Additional eligibility criterion for Commonwealth veterans, allied veterans and allied mariners
(3)	Subject to subsection (3A), a person who is a veteran by reason only of being a Commonwealth veteran, an allied veteran or an allied mariner must, in addition to meeting the requirements of subsection (1), have been an Australian resident for a continuous period of at least 10 years.
(3A)	Subsection (3) does not apply to:
(a)	a refugee; or
(b)	a former refugee.
(4)	For the purpose of applying subsection (3), where:
(a)	a veteran has been an Australian resident during more than one period; and
(b)	the longer or longest of those periods is less than 10 years but is not less than 5 years; and
(c)	the aggregate of those periods is more than 10 years;
in the application of subsection (3) to the veteran, the period of 10 years specified in that subsection is to be reduced by a period equal to the period by which the aggregate is more than 10 years.
(5)	Subsection (3) does not apply to a veteran if:
(a)	the veteran became permanently incapacitated for work while the veteran was an Australian resident; and
(b)	the veteran’s permanent incapacity for work was not brought about with a view to obtaining a service pension or a social security pension; and
(c)	the veteran does not have an enforceable claim against any person, under any law or contract, for adequate compensation in respect of the permanent incapacity.
(6)	If:
(a)	a veteran lodges a proper claim for an invalidity service pension before meeting the eligibility requirements referred to in subsection (1); and
(b)	the veteran ceases to be an Australian resident after lodging the claim and before the claim is determined;
the veteran is not eligible for invalidity service pension unless:
(c)	the day on which the veteran met all the eligibility requirements; and
(d)	the day from which invalidity service pension would, if the claim were granted, be payable;
are earlier than the day on which the veteran ceased to be an Australian resident.
37AA Commission must determine circumstances in which persons are permanently incapacitated for work
(1)	The Commission must, by written determination, specify the circumstances in which persons are permanently incapacitated for work for the purposes of paragraph 37(1)(c).
Variation or revocation
(2)	The Commission may, by written determination, vary or revoke a determination under subsection (1).
Legislative instrument
(3)	A determination under this section is a legislative instrument.
37AAA Continued eligibility for invalidity service pension if person undertaking a rehabilitation program etc.
If:
(a)	a person is receiving an invalidity service pension; and
(b)	the person ceases to be permanently incapacitated for work while, or as a result of, undertaking a transferred VEA rehabilitation program;
the person does not cease to be eligible for the invalidity service pension from the time at which the person ceases to be permanently incapacitated for work until the end of the period of 5 years mentioned in subsection 115G(2) (as affected by subsection 115G(2A)).
37A Invalidity service pension may not be payable in some circumstances
(1)	Even though a veteran is eligible for an invalidity service pension, the pension may not be payable to the veteran because:
(a)	the pension has not commenced to be payable (see section 37B); or
(b)	the veteran is in gaol or in psychiatric confinement (see sections 55 and 55A); or
(c)	the veteran is receiving another pension (see section 37C); or
(d)	the pension is cancelled or suspended:
(i)	under this Act (see sections 56E, 56EA, 56J and 56K); or
(ii)	under Part 3C (schooling requirements) of the Social Security (Administration) Act 1999; or
Note:	See section 124E of the Social Security (Administration) Act 1999.
(e)	the person has not provided a tax file number for the person or the person’s partner (see section 128A); or
(f)	the person or the person’s partner is entitled to receive compensation (see Division 3 of Part IIIC).
(2)	Subject to subsections (3) and (4), an invalidity service pension is not payable to a veteran if the veteran’s invalidity service pension rate would be nil.
Note:	A veteran whose rate might otherwise be nil under the Rate Calculator may not have a nil rate after the application of the financial hardship provisions (sections 52Y and 52Z).
(3)	Subsection (2) does not apply to a veteran if the veteran’s rate would be nil merely because:
(a)	an election by the veteran under subsection 60A(1) is in force; or
(b)	the veteran has been paid an advance pharmaceutical allowance under Part 2.23 of the Social Security Act.
(4)	Subsection (2) does not apply to a veteran if the veteran’s rate is nil merely because of the operation of Part IVA.
37B Invalidity service pension generally not payable before claim
Provisional commencement day
(1)	An invalidity service pension is not payable to a veteran before the veteran’s provisional commencement day.
(1A)	Subject to subsection (2), a veteran’s provisional commencement day is the day on which the veteran claims the invalidity service pension.
Initial incorrect claim followed by proper claim
(2)	If:
(a)	a veteran makes a claim (in this subsection called the initial claim) for invalidity service pension; and
(b)	the claim is not a proper claim; and
(c)	on the day on which the veteran makes the initial claim, the veteran is eligible for invalidity service pension; and
(d)	the veteran subsequently makes a proper claim:
(i)	within 3 months after being notified that the initial claim was not a proper claim; or
(ii)	if the veteran was not so notified—at any time;
then the veteran’s provisional commencement day is the day on which the initial claim was lodged.
37C Restrictions on dual pensions
An invalidity service pension is not payable to a veteran if the veteran is receiving:
(a)	another service pension; or
(aa)	a veteran payment; or
(b)	a social security pension; or
(c)	a social security benefit.
Note:	Social security benefit includes jobseeker payment.
37CA Exclusion of certain participants in ABSTUDY Scheme
If:
(a)	a payment is made in respect of a person under the ABSTUDY Scheme; and
(b)	the payment is made on the basis that the person is a full-time student; and
(c)	in the calculation of the payment, an amount identified as living allowance is included; and
(d)	the payment relates to a period;
invalidity service pension is not payable to the person in respect of any part of the period.
Subdivision B—Claim for invalidity service pension
37D Need for a claim
A veteran who wants to be granted an invalidity service pension must make a proper claim for that pension.
37E Who can claim?
(1)	A veteran may not claim an invalidity service pension if he or she has reached pension age (within the meaning of subsections 5QB(2), (3), (4) and (5)).
(2)	Subject to subsection (3), a claim for invalidity service pension must be made by:
(a)	the veteran who wants to be granted the invalidity service pension; or
(b)	with the approval of the veteran—another person on the veteran’s behalf.
(3)	If the veteran is unable, because of physical or mental incapacity, to approve another person to make the claim on his or her behalf, the Commission may approve another person to make the claim.
37F Making a claim
(1)	To be a proper claim, the claim must be:
(a)	made in writing; and
(b)	in accordance with a form approved by the Commission; and
(c)	accompanied by any evidence available to the claimant that the claimant considers may be relevant to the claim; and
(d)	lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(2)	A claim lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
37H Claimant must be Australian resident and in Australia
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), a claim is not a proper claim unless the veteran making the claim, or on whose behalf the claim is being made, is:
(a)	an Australian resident; and
(b)	in Australia;
on the day on which the claim is lodged.
Note:	For Australian resident see section 5G.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not apply to a veteran’s claim if:
(a)	the veteran is outside Australia and is receiving:
(i)	age service pension; or
(ii)	partner service pension; or
(iii)	income support supplement; or
(iiia)	veteran payment; or
(iv)	a social security pension; and
(b)	the veteran would, if that pension, supplement or payment were cancelled, be eligible for invalidity service pension.
Note 1:	If the veteran ceases to be an Australian resident after having made a proper claim and after having met all the eligibility requirements (section 37), the veteran’s eligibility is not affected.
Note 2:	For social security pension see subsection 5Q(1).
37J Claim may be withdrawn
(1)	A claimant for invalidity service pension or a person on behalf of a claimant may withdraw a claim that has not been determined.
(2)	A claim that is withdrawn is taken to have not been made.
(3)	A withdrawal may be made either orally or by document lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
37JB Oral withdrawal of a claim
An oral withdrawal of a claim must be made to a person in an office of the Department in Australia.
37JC Acknowledgment of oral withdrawal of a claim
As soon as practicable after receiving an oral withdrawal of a claim, the Secretary must give the claimant an acknowledgment notice in writing stating that:
(a)	an oral withdrawal of the claim was made; and
(b)	the claimant, or a person on behalf of the claimant, may, within 28 days from the day the acknowledgment notice is given, request the Secretary to treat the withdrawal as if it had not been made.
37JD Reactivating the withdrawn claim
If, within 28 days from the day on which the Secretary gave the acknowledgment notice, a claimant, or a person on behalf of a claimant, requests the Secretary to treat the oral withdrawal of the claim as if it had not been made, the oral withdrawal is taken not to have been made.
Note:	A request made under paragraph 37JC(b) has the effect of reactivating the claim. In particular, the commencement day of the claim stays the same.
37JE Secretary may require claimant or claimant’s partner to take action to obtain a comparable foreign pension
(1)	If:
(a)	a person has claimed an invalidity service pension; and
(b)	the Secretary is satisfied that the claimant may be entitled to a comparable foreign pension if the claimant applied for that pension;
the Secretary may give the claimant a notice that requires the claimant to take reasonable action to obtain the comparable foreign pension.
(1A)	If:
(a)	a person has claimed an invalidity service pension; and
(b)	the Secretary is satisfied that the claimant’s partner (if any) may be entitled to a comparable foreign pension if the partner applied for that pension;
the Secretary may give the claimant a notice that requires the partner to take reasonable action to obtain the comparable foreign pension.
(2)	A notice under subsection (1) or (1A):
(a)	must be in writing; and
(b)	must be given personally or by post; and
(c)	must specify the period within which the reasonable action is to be taken.
(3)	The period specified under paragraph (2)(c) must end at least 14 days after the day on which the notice is given.
(4)	The Commission may reject a claim if:
(a)	the claimant is given a notice under subsection (1) or (1A); and
(b)	the Commission is satisfied that the claimant, or the claimant’s partner, has not taken reasonable action to obtain the comparable foreign pension within the period specified in the notice.
(5)	For the purposes of this section, a person takes reasonable action to obtain a comparable foreign pension only if the person takes reasonable action to obtain the pension at the highest rate applicable to the person.
Subdivision C—Investigation of claim
37K Secretary to investigate claim and submit it to Commission
(1)	If a veteran makes a proper claim for an invalidity service pension, the Secretary must cause an investigation to be made into the matters to which the claim relates.
(2)	When the investigation is completed, the Secretary must cause the claim to be submitted to the Commission for consideration and determination.
(3)	When the claim is submitted to the Commission it must be accompanied by:
(a)	any evidence supplied by the claimant in support of the claim; and
(b)	any documents or other evidence obtained by the Department in the course of the investigation that are relevant to the claim; and
(c)	any other documents or other evidence under the control of the Department that are relevant to the claim.
Subdivision D—Consideration and determination of claim
37L Duties of Commission in relation to claim
Determination of claim
(1)	When the claim is submitted to the Commission, the Commission must:
(a)	consider the claim; and
(b)	satisfy itself with respect to all matters relevant to the determination of the claim; and
(c)	determine all matters requiring determination before the claim can be determined; and
(d)	determine the claim as provided by subsection (4).
(3)	Without limiting subsection (1), the Commission, in considering the claim, must consider:
(a)	the evidence submitted with the claim under section 37K; and
(b)	any further evidence subsequently submitted to the Commission in relation to the claim.
(4)	The Commission must determine the claim as follows:
(a)	first, the Commission must determine whether the pension is to be granted to the person; and
(b)	if the Commission determines that the pension is to be granted to the person, the Commission then must:
(i)	work out the person’s invalidity service pension rate under section 37N; and
(ii)	determine that the pension is payable to the person at that rate.
Record of determination and reasons
(5)	When the Commission determines the claim it must make a written record of its determination.
(6)	The Commission must also make a statement in writing about the determination that:
(a)	sets out the Commission’s findings on material questions of fact; and
(b)	refers to the evidence or other material on which those findings are based; and
(c)	provides reasons for the Commission’s determination.
Notification of determination
(7)	As soon as practicable after the Commission determines a claim under subsection (1), the Commission must give the person who made the claim:
(a)	a copy of the record of the Commission’s determination; and
(b)	subject to subsection (8), a copy of the statement about the determination referred to in subsection (6); and
(c)	particulars of the right of the person who made the claim to have the determination reviewed by the Commission.
(8)	If the statement referred to in paragraph (7)(b) contains any matter that, in the opinion of the Commission:
(a)	is of a confidential nature; or
(b)	might, if communicated to the person who made the claim, be prejudicial to his or her physical or mental health or well-being;
the copy given to the person is not to contain that matter.
Note:	A claimant may apply to the Commission for review of a determination made under this section (see Division 16 of Part IIIB).
37M Date of effect of determination
If the Commission determines under section 37L that invalidity service pension is payable to the person:
(a)	the determination takes effect on the day on which the determination is made or on such later or earlier day as is specified in the determination; and
(b)	subject to this Act, invalidity service pension is payable to the person at the rate specified in the determination.
Note:	Invalidity service pension is not payable to a person who is receiving another service pension or a social security pension or benefit (see section 37C).
Subdivision E—Rate of invalidity service pension
37N How to work out the rate of a veteran’s invalidity service pension
A veteran’s invalidity service pension rate is worked out in accordance with the Rate Calculator.
Note 1:	Module A of the Rate Calculator establishes the overall rate calculation process and the remaining Modules provide for the calculation of the component amounts used in the overall rate calculation process.
Note 2:	The rate obtained by applying the Rate Calculator may be reduced because of the receipt of payments under a self-employment program (see Division 9 of Part IIIB).
	Division 5 — Partner service pension
Subdivision A—Eligibility for and payability of partner service pension
38 Eligibility for partner service pension
(1)	Subject to this section, a person is eligible for a partner service pension if the person:
(a)	is a person:
(i)	who is a member of a couple; and
(ii)	whose partner is a veteran who is receiving an age service pension or invalidity service pension, or who would be receiving such a pension if not for the operation of one or more disqualifying provisions; or
(aa)	is a person:
(i)	who is a member of a couple; and
(ii)	whose partner is a veteran who has rendered qualifying service; and
(iii)	who is qualified for an age pension under the Social Security Act; or
(b)	is a person in relation to whom the following apply:
(i)	subsection (1AA) applies to the person;
(ii)	the veteran is receiving an age service pension or an invalidity service pension, or would be receiving such a pension if not for the operation of one or more disqualifying provisions; or
(c)	is a person in relation to whom the following apply:
(i)	the person is an eligible person in relation to a veteran who has died (see subsection (1AB));
(ia)	the veteran, immediately before his or her death, was receiving an age service pension or an invalidity service pension, or would have been receiving such a pension if not for the operation of one or more disqualifying provisions;
(ii)	the person was receiving a partner service pension or a social security pension immediately before the veteran’s death; or
(d)	is a person in relation to whom the following apply:
(i)	the person is an eligible person in relation to a veteran who has died (see subsection (1AB));
(ii)	the person had, before the veteran’s death, made a claim for a partner service pension which had not been determined at the date of the death;
(iii)	the veteran:
(A)	was, immediately before his or her death, receiving an age service pension or invalidity service pension; or
(B)	had, before his or her death, made a claim for an age service pension or invalidity service pension which had not been determined at the date of the death but which the Commission determines would have been granted if the veteran had not died; or
(e)	is a person in relation to whom the following apply:
(i)	the person is an eligible person in relation to a veteran who has died (see subsection (1AB)) and who has rendered qualifying service;
(ii)	the person is qualified for an age pension under the Social Security Act; or
(f)	is a person:
(i)	who is a member of a couple; and
(ii)	whose partner is a veteran who is registered as a member of the pension bonus scheme (see Part IIIAB); or
(g)	is a person in relation to whom the following apply:
(i)	subsection (1AA) applies to the person;
(ii)	the veteran is registered as a member of the pension bonus scheme (see Part IIIAB); or
(h)	is a person in relation to whom the following apply:
(i)	the person is an eligible person in relation to a veteran who has died (see subsection (1AB));
(ii)	the veteran, immediately before his or her death, was registered as a member of the pension bonus scheme (see Part IIIAB), was receiving an age service pension or an invalidity service pension, or would have been receiving such a pension if not for the operation of one or more disqualifying provisions;
(iii)	the person, immediately before the veteran’s death, was registered as a member of the pension bonus scheme (see Part IIIAB) or of the corresponding scheme under Part 2.2A of the Social Security Act or was receiving a partner service pension or a social security pension; or
(i)	is a person in relation to whom the following apply:
(i)	the person is an eligible person in relation to a veteran who has died (see subsection (1AB));
(ii)	the person had, before the veteran’s death, made a claim for a partner service pension which had not been determined at the date of the death;
(iii)	the veteran was, immediately before his or her death, registered as a member of the pension bonus scheme (see Part IIIAB).
(1AA)	This subsection applies to a person if:
(a)	the person is the non-illness separated spouse of a veteran; or
(b)	the following apply:
(i)	a relationship between the person and a veteran (whether of the same sex or a different sex) is registered under a law of a State or Territory prescribed for the purposes of section 2E of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 as a kind of relationship prescribed for the purposes of that section;
(ii)	the person and the veteran have separated and the person is living separately and apart from the veteran on a permanent basis;
(iii)	the separation has not resulted in a determination under subsection 5R(5); or
(c)	the following apply:
(i)	the person and a veteran were, in the Commission’s opinion (formed as mentioned in section 11A), in a de facto relationship;
(ii)	the person and the veteran have separated and the person is living separately and apart from the veteran on a permanent basis;
(iii)	the separation has not resulted in a determination under subsection 5R(5);
(iv)	the person and the veteran are not within a prohibited relationship; or
(d)	the following apply:
(i)	the person becomes divorced from a veteran;
(ii)	immediately before the divorce, paragraph (a) applied in relation to the person and the veteran; or
(e)	the following apply:
(i)	a relationship, described in subparagraph (b)(i), between the person and a veteran ceases to be registered under a law of the State or Territory concerned;
(ii)	immediately before the cessation, paragraph (b) applied in relation to the person and the veteran.
(1AB)	For the purposes of this section, a person is an eligible person in relation to a veteran who has died if:
(a)	the person is the widow or widower of the veteran; or
(b)	the following apply:
(i)	immediately before the veteran died, a relationship between the person and the veteran (whether of the same sex or a different sex) was registered under a law of a State or Territory prescribed for the purposes of section 2E of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 as a kind of relationship prescribed for the purposes of that section;
(ii)	immediately before the veteran died, the person was living separately and apart from the veteran on a permanent basis;
(iii)	the person has not been a member of a couple at any time on or after the first day on which the person was living separately and apart from the veteran on a permanent basis and before the veteran’s death; or
(c)	the following apply:
(i)	at any time before the veteran’s death, the person and the veteran were, in the Commission’s opinion (formed as mentioned in section 11A), in a de facto relationship;
(ii)	immediately before the veteran died, the person was living separately and apart from the veteran on a permanent basis;
(iii)	immediately before the veteran died, the person and the veteran were not within a prohibited relationship;
(iv)	the person has not been a member of a couple at any time on or after the first day on which the person was living separately and apart from the veteran on a permanent basis and before the veteran’s death; or
(d)	the following apply:
(i)	at any time before the veteran’s death, the person became divorced from the veteran;
(ii)	immediately before the divorce, paragraph (1AA)(a) applied in relation to the person and the veteran;
(iii)	the person has not been a member of a couple at any time on or after the first day on which the person was living separately and apart from the veteran on a permanent basis and before the veteran’s death; or
(e)	the following apply:
(i)	at any time before the veteran’s death, a relationship, described in subparagraph (b)(i), between the person and the veteran ceased to be registered under a law of the State or Territory concerned;
(ii)	immediately before the cessation, paragraph (1AA)(b) applied in relation to the person and the veteran;
(iii)	the person has not been a member of a couple at any time on or after the first day on which the person was living separately and apart from the veteran on a permanent basis and before the veteran’s death.
(1A)	For the purposes of subsection (1), a disqualifying provision is a section of this Part or of Part IIIB or IIIC that has the effect that an age service pension or an invalidity service pension that would otherwise be payable to a person is not, or ceases to be, payable.
(1B)	Subject to subsections (1C) and (1D), a person is not eligible for a partner service pension under subsection (1) unless the person:
(a)	has a dependent child when he or she makes a claim for the pension; or
(b)	if subsection (1BA) applies in relation to the person—has reached 50 years of age; or
(c)	has reached qualifying age.
Note:	For qualifying age see section 5Q.
(1BA)	This subsection applies in relation to a person if:
(a)	paragraph (1)(a) or (f) applies in relation to the person; and
(b)	one of the following applies:
(i)	the veteran concerned is a veteran to whom subsection 22(4) or section 23 or 25 applies;
(ii)	the veteran concerned is a veteran to whom section 22 applies who is in receipt of a pension the rate of which has been increased because the pension is in respect of an incapacity described in item 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 of the table in subsection 27(1);
(iii)	the veteran concerned suffers an impairment (within the meaning of the MRCA) and the Commission has determined under Part 2 of Chapter 4 of the MRCA that the impairment constitutes at least 80 impairment points (within the meaning of the MRCA);
(iv)	the veteran concerned satisfies the eligibility criteria in section 220A (Additional Disablement Amount) of the MRCA, or has satisfied those criteria during some period of the veteran’s life.
(1C)	Subsection (1B) does not apply to a person:
(a)	whose claim for a partner service pension had not been determined before 1 October 1995 but who was eligible, at the date of the claim, for the pension; or
(b)	who was determined by the Commission, before 1 October 1995, to be eligible for a partner service pension;
unless the person’s pension is or has been cancelled for any reason.
(1D)	Subsection (1B) does not apply to a person whose partner:
(a)	is a veteran to whom section 24 applies; or
(b)	is receiving, or eligible to receive, a Special Rate Disability Pension under Part 6 of Chapter 4 of the MRCA.
Note:	A person is still eligible to receive a Special Rate Disability Pension even if the amount of the pension is totally offset under section 204 of the MRCA.
(2)	If a veteran:
(a)	makes a claim for age service pension or invalidity service pension at a time when the veteran is receiving age pension or disability support pension under the Social Security Act; and
(b)	the veteran dies before the claim is determined;
the Commission is, for the purpose of the determination under sub-subparagraph (1)(d)(iii)(B), to disregard the fact that the veteran was receiving social security pension at the time of the claim.
(2A)	A person’s eligibility under paragraph (1)(b), (c), (d), (e), (g), (h) or (i) ceases if the person becomes a member of a couple.
Note:	The person may become eligible for partner service pension under paragraph (1)(a), (aa) or (f).
(2AB)	A person’s eligibility under paragraph (1)(b) or (g) ceases at the end of the period of 12 months beginning on the first day on which the person was living separately and apart from the veteran concerned on a permanent basis.
(2AC)	A person’s eligibility under paragraph (1)(b) or (g) does not cease under subsection (2AB) if:
(a)	the person has reached pension age; or
(b)	the circumstances specified under subsection (2AD) exist in relation to the person.
Note:	For pension age see section 5Q.
(2AD)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, specify circumstances for the purposes of paragraph (2AC)(b).
(4)	If:
(a)	a person lodges a proper claim for a partner service pension before meeting the eligibility requirements referred to in subsection (1); and
(b)	the person ceases to be an Australian resident after lodging the claim and before the claim is determined;
the person is not eligible for partner service pension unless:
(c)	the day on which the person met all the eligibility requirements; and
(d)	the day from which partner service pension would, if the claim were granted, be payable;
are earlier than the day on which the person ceased to be an Australian resident.
38AA Disclosure or use of personal information relevant to partner service pension eligibility
(1)	An APP entity that holds a record that contains personal information relating to a veteran may:
(a)	disclose to the veteran’s partner personal information to the effect that, with effect from a specified date, the veteran has become a veteran to whom section 24 applies so as to facilitate the making of a claim, or of a further claim, by the veteran’s partner for partner service pension; or
(b)	otherwise use that information for the purpose of dealing with a claim, or a further claim, by the veteran’s partner for such a pension.
(2)	To avoid doubt, if information is disclosed or used in accordance with subsection (1), the disclosure or use is taken, for the purposes of the Australian Privacy Principles, to be authorised by this Act.
(3)	Unless the contrary intention appears, an expression used in this section has the same meaning as in the Privacy Act 1988.
38A Partner service pension may not be payable in some circumstances
(1)	Even though a person is eligible for a partner service pension, the pension may not be payable to the person because:
(a)	the pension has not commenced to be payable (see section 38B); or
(b)	the person is in gaol or in psychiatric confinement (see sections 55 and 55A); or
(c)	the person is receiving another pension (see section 38C); or
(d)	the pension is cancelled or suspended:
(i)	under this Act (see sections 56E, 56EA, 56J and 56K); or
(ii)	under Part 3C (schooling requirements) of the Social Security (Administration) Act 1999; or
Note:	See section 124E of the Social Security (Administration) Act 1999.
(e)	the person has not provided a tax file number for the person or the person’s partner (see section 128A); or
(f)	the person or the person’s partner is entitled to receive compensation (see Division 3 of Part IIIC).
(2)	Subject to subsections (3) and (4), a partner service pension is not payable to a person if his or her partner service pension rate would be nil.
Note:	A person whose rate might otherwise be nil under the Rate Calculator may not have a nil rate after the application of the financial hardship provisions (sections 52Y and 52Z).
(3)	Subsection (2) does not apply to a person if the person’s rate would be nil merely because:
(a)	an election by the person under subsection 60A(1) is in force; or
(b)	the person has been paid an advance pharmaceutical allowance under Part 2.23 of the Social Security Act.
(4)	Subsection (2) does not apply to a person if the person’s rate is nil merely because of the operation of Part IVA.
38B Partner service pension generally not payable before claim
Provisional commencement day
(1)	A partner service pension is not payable to a person before the person’s provisional commencement day.
(1A)	Subject to subsections (2) and (3), a person’s provisional commencement day is the day on which the person claims the partner service pension.
Initial incorrect claim followed by proper claim
(2)	If:
(a)	a person makes a claim (in this subsection called the initial claim) for partner service pension; and
(b)	the claim is not a proper claim; and
(c)	on the day on which the person makes the initial claim, the person is eligible for partner service pension; and
(d)	the person subsequently makes a proper claim:
(i)	within 3 months after being notified that the initial claim was not a proper claim; or
(ii)	if the person was not so notified—at any time;
then the person’s provisional commencement day is the day on which the initial claim was lodged.
After a person makes a claim, the person’s partner becomes a special rate disability pensioner
(3)	If:
(a)	a person makes a claim for partner service pension; and
(b)	that claim is refused; and
(c)	that claim would not have been refused if, on the day on which the claim was made, the person’s partner was a veteran to whom section 24 applied; and
(d)	after that claim is refused, the Secretary notifies the person’s partner that he or she is a veteran to whom section 24 applies; and
(e)	within 3 months after that notification, the person makes another claim for partner service pension;
then the person’s provisional commencement day is the later of:
(f)	the day the person made the claim referred to in paragraph (a); and
(g)	the day the person’s partner became a veteran to whom section 24 applies.
38C Restrictions on dual pensions
(1)	A partner service pension is not payable to a person if the person is receiving:
(a)	another service pension; or
(aa)	a veteran payment; or
(b)	a social security pension; or
(c)	a social security benefit.
Note:	Social security benefit includes jobseeker payment.
(2)	A partner service pension is not payable to a war widow or a war widower.
Note:	For war widow and war widower see subsection 5E(1).
38CA Exclusion of certain participants in ABSTUDY Scheme
If:
(a)	a payment is made in respect of a person under the ABSTUDY Scheme; and
(b)	the payment is made on the basis that the person is a full-time student; and
(c)	in the calculation of the payment, an amount identified as living allowance is included; and
(d)	the payment relates to a period;
partner service pension is not payable to the person in respect of any part of the period.
Subdivision B—Claim for partner service pension
38D Need for a claim
A person who wants to be granted a partner service pension must make a proper claim for that pension.
38E Who can claim?
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), the claim must be made by:
(a)	the person who wants to be granted the partner service pension; or
(b)	with the approval of the person—another person on his or her behalf.
(2)	If the person is unable, because of physical or mental incapacity, to approve another person to make the claim on his or her behalf, the Commission may approve another person to make the claim.
38F Making a claim
(1)	To be a proper claim, the claim must be:
(a)	made in writing; and
(b)	in accordance with a form approved by the Commission; and
(c)	accompanied by any evidence available to the claimant that the claimant considers may be relevant to the claim; and
(d)	lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(1A)	A claim lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
(2)	The approved form may require the claimant to disclose whether the claimant is registered as a member of:
(a)	the pension bonus scheme (see Part IIIAB); or
(b)	the corresponding scheme under Part 2.2A of the Social Security Act.
38H Claimant must be Australian resident and in Australia
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), a claim is not a proper claim unless the person making the claim, or on whose behalf the claim is being made, is:
(a)	an Australian resident; and
(b)	in Australia;
on the day on which the claim is lodged.
Note:	For Australian resident see section 5G.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not apply to a person’s claim if:
(a)	the person is outside Australia and is receiving:
(i)	age service pension; or
(ii)	invalidity service pension; or
(iia)	veteran payment; or
(iii)	a social security pension; and
(b)	the person would, if that pension or payment were cancelled, be eligible for partner service pension.
Note 1:	If the person ceases to be an Australian resident after having made a proper claim and after having met all the eligibility requirements (section 38), the person’s eligibility for partner service pension is not affected.
Note 2:	For social security pension see subsection 5Q(1).
38J Claim may be withdrawn
(1)	A claimant for partner service pension or a person on behalf of a claimant may withdraw a claim that has not been determined.
(2)	A claim that is withdrawn is taken to have not been made.
(3)	A withdrawal may be made either orally or by document lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
38JB Oral withdrawal of a claim
An oral withdrawal of a claim must be made to a person in an office of the Department in Australia.
38JC Acknowledgment of oral withdrawal of a claim
As soon as practicable after receiving an oral withdrawal of a claim, the Secretary must give the claimant an acknowledgment notice in writing stating that:
(a)	an oral withdrawal of the claim was made; and
(b)	the claimant, or a person on behalf of the claimant, may, within 28 days from the day the acknowledgment notice is given, request the Secretary to treat the withdrawal as if it had not been made.
38JD Reactivating the withdrawn claim
If, within 28 days from the day on which the Secretary gave the acknowledgment notice, a claimant, or a person on behalf of a claimant, requests the Secretary to treat the oral withdrawal of the claim as if it had not been made, the oral withdrawal is taken not to have been made.
Note:	A request made under paragraph 38JC(b) has the effect of reactivating the claim. In particular, the commencement day of the claim stays the same.
38JE Secretary may require claimant or claimant’s partner to take action to obtain a comparable foreign pension
(1)	If:
(a)	a person has claimed a partner service pension; and
(b)	the Secretary is satisfied that the claimant may be entitled to a comparable foreign pension if the claimant applied for that pension;
the Secretary may give the claimant a notice that requires the claimant to take reasonable action to obtain the comparable foreign pension.
(1A)	If:
(a)	a person has claimed a partner service pension; and
(b)	the Secretary is satisfied that the claimant’s partner (if any) may be entitled to a comparable foreign pension if the partner applied for that pension;
the Secretary may give the claimant a notice that requires the partner to take reasonable action to obtain the comparable foreign pension.
(2)	A notice under subsection (1) or (1A):
(a)	must be in writing; and
(b)	must be given personally or by post; and
(c)	must specify the period within which the reasonable action is to be taken.
(3)	The period specified under paragraph (2)(c) must end at least 14 days after the day on which the notice is given.
(4)	The Commission may reject a claim if:
(a)	the claimant is given a notice under subsection (1) or (1A); and
(b)	the Commission is satisfied that the claimant, or the claimant’s partner, has not taken reasonable action to obtain the comparable foreign pension within the period specified in the notice.
(5)	For the purposes of this section, a person takes reasonable action to obtain a comparable foreign pension only if the person takes reasonable action to obtain the pension at the highest rate applicable to the person.
Subdivision C—Investigation of claim
38K Secretary to investigate claim and submit it to Commission
(1)	If a person makes a proper claim for a partner service pension, the Secretary must cause an investigation to be made into the matters to which the claim relates.
(2)	When the investigation is completed, the Secretary must cause the claim to be submitted to the Commission for consideration and determination.
(3)	When the claim is submitted to the Commission it must be accompanied by:
(a)	any evidence supplied by the claimant in support of the claim; and
(b)	any documents or other evidence obtained by the Department in the course of the investigation that are relevant to the claim; and
(c)	any other documents or other evidence under the control of the Department that are relevant to the claim.
Subdivision D—Consideration and determination of claim
38L Duties of Commission in relation to claim
Determination of claim
(1)	When the claim is submitted to the Commission, the Commission must:
(a)	consider the claim; and
(b)	satisfy itself with respect to all matters relevant to the determination of the claim; and
(c)	determine all matters requiring determination before the claim can be determined; and
(d)	determine the claim as provided by subsection (4).
(3)	Without limiting subsection (1), the Commission, in considering the claim, must consider:
(a)	the evidence submitted with the claim under section 38K; and
(b)	any further evidence subsequently submitted to the Commission in relation to the claim.
(4)	The Commission must determine the claim as follows:
(a)	first, the Commission must determine whether the pension is to be granted to the person; and
(b)	if the Commission determines that the pension is to be granted to the person, the Commission then must:
(i)	work out the person’s partner service pension rate under section 38N; and
(ii)	determine that the pension is payable to the person at that rate.
Record of determination and reasons
(5)	When the Commission determines the claim it must make a written record of its determination.
(6)	The Commission must also make a statement in writing about the determination that:
(a)	sets out the Commission’s findings on material questions of fact; and
(b)	refers to the evidence or other material on which those findings are based; and
(c)	provides reasons for the Commission’s determination.
Notification of determination
(7)	As soon as practicable after the Commission determines a claim under subsection (1), the Commission must give the person who made the claim:
(a)	a copy of the record of the Commission’s determination; and
(b)	subject to subsection (8), a copy of the statement about the determination referred to in subsection (6); and
(c)	particulars of the right of the person who made the claim to have the determination reviewed by the Commission.
(8)	If the statement referred to in paragraph (7)(b) contains any matter that, in the opinion of the Commission:
(a)	is of a confidential nature; or
(b)	might, if communicated to the person who made the claim, be prejudicial to his or her physical or mental health or well-being;
the copy given to the person is not to contain that matter.
Note:	A claimant may apply to the Commission for review of a determination made under this section (see Division 16 of Part IIIB).
38M Date of effect of determination
If the Commission determines under section 38L that partner service pension is payable to the person:
(a)	the determination takes effect on the day on which the determination is made or on such later or earlier day as is specified in the determination; and
(b)	subject to this Act, partner service pension is payable to the person at the rate specified in the determination.
Note:	Partner service pension is not payable to a person who is receiving another service pension or a social security pension or benefit (see section 38C).
Subdivision E—Rate of partner service pension
38N How to work out the rate of a person’s partner service pension
A person’s partner service pension rate is worked out in accordance with the Rate Calculator.
Note 1:	Module A of the Rate Calculator establishes the overall rate calculation process and the remaining Modules provide for the calculation of the component amounts used in the overall rate calculation process.
Note 2:	The rate obtained by applying the Rate Calculator may be reduced because of the receipt of payments under a self-employment program (see Division 9 of Part IIIB).
Part IIIA—Income support supplement
	Division 1 — Eligibility for and payability of income support supplement
45A Eligibility for income support supplement
A person is eligible for income support supplement if the person is a war widow or war widower.
45B Income support supplement may not be payable in some circumstances
(1)	Even though a person is eligible for income support supplement, income support supplement may not be payable to the person because:
(a)	the pension has not commenced to be payable (see section 45C); or
(b)	the person is in gaol or in psychiatric confinement (see sections 55 and 55A); or
(c)	a person is receiving an age service pension, an invalidity service pension, a veteran payment, a social security pension, a social security benefit or another income support supplement (see section 45D); or
(d)	the pension is cancelled or suspended:
(i)	under this Act (see sections 56E, 56EA, 56J and 56K); or
(ii)	under Part 3C (schooling requirements) of the Social Security (Administration) Act 1999; or
Note:	See section 124E of the Social Security (Administration) Act 1999.
(e)	the person has not provided a tax file number for the person or the person’s partner (see section 128A); or
(f)	the person or the person’s partner is entitled to receive compensation (see Division 3 of Part IIIC).
(2)	Subject to subsection (3), income support supplement is not payable to a person if the person’s income support supplement rate would be nil.
Note:	A person whose rate might otherwise be nil under the Rate Calculator may not have a nil rate after the application of the financial hardship provisions (sections 52Y and 52Z).
(3)	Subsection (2) does not apply to a person if the person’s income support supplement rate is nil merely because of the operation of Part IVA.
45C Income support supplement generally not payable before claim
(1)	Income support supplement is not payable to a person before the day on which the person claimed, or is taken to have claimed, income support supplement.
Initial incorrect claim followed by proper claim
(2)	If:
(a)	a person has made a claim (initial claim) for income support supplement; and
(b)	the claim is not a proper claim; and
(c)	on the day on which the person made the initial claim, the person was eligible for income support supplement; and
(d)	the person subsequently makes a proper claim:
(i)	within 3 months after being notified that the initial claim was not a proper claim; or
(ii)	if the person was not so notified—at any time;
then:
(e)	subsection (1) does not apply to the person; and
(f)	income support supplement is not payable to the person before the day on which the initial claim was lodged.
(3)	Subsections (1) and (2) have effect subject to subsection 45R(2).
45D Restrictions on dual pensions
(1)	Income support supplement is not payable to a person if the person is receiving:
(a)	an age service pension; or
(b)	an invalidity service pension; or
(ba)	a veteran payment; or
(c)	a social security benefit.
(1A)	Income support supplement is not payable to a person if the person is already receiving an income support supplement.
(2)	Income support supplement is not payable to a person if:
(a)	the person:
(i)	elected under subsection 45E(2); or
(ii)	is taken under subsection 45E(3) to have elected;
to continue to receive a social security pension; and
(b)	that pension has not ceased to be payable to the person under the Social Security Act.
(3)	Income support supplement is not payable to a person if:
(a)	the person:
(i)	elected under subsection 45F(2) or 45G(2); or
(ii)	is taken under subsection 45F(3) or 45G(3) to have elected;
to receive a social security pension in the event that it was granted to him or her; and
(b)	that pension:
(i)	was granted to the person; and
(ii)	has not ceased to be payable to the person under the Social Security Act.
45DA Exclusion of certain participants in ABSTUDY Scheme
If:
(a)	a payment is made in respect of a person under the ABSTUDY Scheme; and
(b)	the payment is made on the basis that the person is a full-time student; and
(c)	in the calculation of the payment, an amount identified as living allowance is included; and
(d)	the payment relates to a period;
income support supplement is not payable to the person in respect of any part of the period.
45E Election to continue to receive social security pension
(1)	This section applies to a war widower or war widow who immediately before the day (commencing day) on which this Part commences was receiving a social security pension.
(2)	A person to whom this section applies may, on the commencing day, by notice in writing given to the Secretary, elect to continue to receive, on and after that day, the social security pension that he or she was receiving immediately before that day.
Note:	As a result of that election, the person is precluded from receiving income support supplement under this Part (see section 45D) for as long as the social security pension continues to be payable to the person.
(3)	If:
(a)	a person to whom this section applies has failed to make an election under subsection (2); and
(b)	the Commission is satisfied that the person was unable to make the election because of circumstances beyond his or her control (for example, because of the person’s incapacity or absence from Australia);
the Commission may determine that the person is to be taken for the purposes of this Act to have elected to continue to receive the social security pension.
45F Claim for social security pension by war widower or war widow pending at commencement of Part
(1)	This section applies to a war widower or war widow if:
(a)	before the day (commencing day) on which this Part commences, he or she had made a claim for a social security pension under the Social Security Act; and
(b)	on the commencement of this Part, the claim has not been determined.
(2)	A person to whom this section applies may, on the commencing day, elect to receive the social security pension in the event that it is granted to him or her.
Note:	If the social security pension is granted, the person is, as a result of that election, precluded from receiving income support supplement under this Part (see section 45D) for as long as the social security pension continues to be payable to the person.
(3)	If:
(a)	a person to whom this section applies has failed to make an election under subsection (2); and
(b)	the Commission is satisfied that the person was unable to make the election because of circumstances beyond his or her control (for example, because of a person’s incapacity or absence from Australia);
the Commission may determine that the person is to be taken for the purposes of this Act to have elected to receive the social security pension in the event that it is granted to him or her.
45G Review of decision rejecting a claim by war widower or war widow for social security pension pending at commencement of Part
(1)	This section applies to a war widower or war widow if:
(a)	before the day (commencing day) on which this Part commences, he or she had made a claim for a social security pension, and the claim had been rejected, under the Social Security Act; and
(b)	on the commencement of this Part:
(i)	the decision to reject the claim (or a decision confirming the decision) is still subject to review following an application for review under Chapter 6 of the Social Security Act; or
(ii)	an application for review of the decision to reject the claim (or of a decision confirming the decision) may still be made under Chapter 6 of that Act, as a result of which a favourable determination may be made under that Act that will take effect (if made) as provided under whichever backdating provision is applicable to the determination.
(2)	A person to whom this section applies may, on the commencing day, elect to receive the social security pension in the event that it is granted to him or her at the end of the review process.
Note:	If the social security pension is granted, the person is, as a result of that election, precluded from receiving income support supplement under this Part (see section 45D) for as long as the social security pension continues to be payable to the person.
(3)	If:
(a)	a person to whom this section applies has failed to make an election under subsection (2); and
(b)	the Commission is satisfied that the person was unable to make the election because of circumstances beyond his or her control (for example, because of a person’s incapacity or absence from Australia);
the Commission may determine that the person is to be taken for the purposes of this Act to have elected to receive the social security pension in the event that it is granted to him or her.
(4)	In this section:
backdating provision, in relation to a determination under the Social Security Act relating to a social security pension, means:
(a)	in the case of an age pension—subsection 80(2) or (4) of the Social Security Act; or
(b)	in the case of a disability support pension—subsection 115(2) or (4) of the Social Security Act; or
(c)	in the case of a wife pension—subsection 184(2) or (4) of the Social Security Act; or
(d)	in the case of a carer payment—subsection 209(2) or (4) of the Social Security Act; or
(e)	in the case of disability wage supplement—subsection 431(2) or (4) of the Social Security Act.
45H Review of decision concerning rate of social security pension paid to war widower or war widow pending at commencement of Part
(1)	This section applies if:
(a)	immediately before the day (commencing day) on which this Part commences, a social security pension was payable to a war widower or war widow; and
(b)	on the commencing day:
(i)	a decision (adverse decision) under the Social Security Act affecting the rate at which the pension should be paid to the war widower or war widow (or a decision confirming the adverse decision) is still subject to review following an application for review under Chapter 6 of the Social Security Act; or
(ii)	an application for review of an adverse decision (or of a decision confirming the adverse decision) may still be made under Chapter 6 of that Act, as a result of which a favourable determination may be made under that Act that will take effect (if made) as provided under whichever backdating provision is applicable to the determination; and
(c)	the war widower or war widow does not make an election under subsection 45E(2).
(2)	Chapter 6 of the Social Security Act continues to apply until no further application for review of the adverse decision can be made under that Chapter.
(3)	This Act has effect as if on the commencing day:
(a)	the war widower or war widow had made a claim for income support supplement under section 45I; and
(b)	the Commission had determined under section 45Q that:
(i)	the claim was to be granted; and
(ii)	income support supplement was payable to the war widower or war widow at a rate equal to the rate (operative rate) at which the social security pension was payable to him or her immediately before the commencing day; and
(c)	in the event that the operative rate of the social security pension is varied as a result of the review—the war widower or war widow had made, as provided in subsection (4), an application for review of the decision of the Commission concerning the rate of which income support supplement was to be paid to him or her.
(4)	For the purposes of paragraph (3)(c), an application for review by the war widower or war widow is taken to have been made:
(a)	if immediately before the commencing day the adverse decision under the Social Security Act was being reviewed by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal—to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal under section 175 of this Act; and
(b)	in any other case—to the Commission under section 57A of this Act.
(5)	In this section:
backdating provision, in relation to a determination under the Social Security Act relating to a social security pension, means:
(a)	in the case of an age pension—subsection 80(2) or (4) of the Social Security Act; or
(b)	in the case of a disability support pension—subsection 115(2) or (4) of the Social Security Act; or
(c)	in the case of a wife pension—subsection 184(2) or (4) of the Social Security Act; or
(d)	in the case of a carer payment—subsection 209(2) or (4) of the Social Security Act; or
(e)	in the case of disability wage supplement—subsection 431(2) or (4) of the Social Security Act.
	Division 2 — Claim for income support supplement
45I Need for a proper claim
Subject to section 45N, a person is not entitled to be granted income support supplement unless the person has made a proper claim for that supplement.
45J Who can claim?
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), the claim must be made by:
(a)	the person (claimant) who wants to be granted income support supplement; or
(b)	with the approval of the claimant—another person on the claimant’s behalf.
(2)	If the claimant is unable, because of physical or mental incapacity, to approve another person to make the claim on his or her behalf, the Commission may approve another person to make the claim.
45K Making a claim
(1)	To be a proper claim, the claim must be:
(a)	made in writing; and
(b)	in accordance with a form approved by the Commission; and
(c)	accompanied by any evidence that the person making the claim considers may be relevant to the claim; and
(d)	lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(1A)	A claim lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
(2)	The approved form may require the claimant to disclose whether the claimant is registered as a member of:
(a)	the pension bonus scheme (see Part IIIAB); or
(b)	the corresponding scheme under Part 2.2A of the Social Security Act.
45M Claimant must be Australian resident and in Australia
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), a claim is not a proper claim unless the person making the claim, or on whose behalf the claim is being made, is:
(a)	an Australian resident; and
(b)	in Australia;
on the day on which the claim is lodged.
Note:	For Australian resident see section 5G.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim if the person making the claim, or on whose behalf the claim is being made:
(a)	is outside Australia; and
(b)	is receiving a service pension, a veteran payment or a social security pension; and
(c)	would, if that pension or payment were cancelled, be eligible for income support supplement.
Note:	If the person ceases to be an Australian resident after having made a proper claim and after having met all the eligibility requirements (see section 36), the person’s eligibility is not affected.
45N Not necessary to make a claim in certain circumstances
(1)	This section applies to:
(a)	a war widower or war widow:
(i)	to whom section 45E applies; and
(ii)	who has not made, or is not taken to have made, an election under subsection 45E(2); and
(b)	a war widower or war widow:
(i)	to whom section 45F or 45G applies; and
(ii)	who has not made, or is not taken to have made, an election under subsection 45F(2) or 45G(2) (as the case may be); and
(iii)	to whom a social security pension is granted; and
(ba)	a war widower or war widow who:
(i)	is granted a pension under Part II or Part IV, at a rate determined under or by reference to subsection 30(1), on or after the commencement of Part 3 of Schedule 1 to the Veterans’ Entitlements Amendment (Direct Deductions and Other Measures) Act 2004; and
(ii)	immediately before being granted the pension was receiving an age pension under Part 2.2 of the Social Security Act from the Department, acting on behalf of the Commonwealth, under an arrangement with the Department administered by the Minister administering that Part; and
(c)	a war widower or war widow who, immediately before being granted a pension under Part II or Part IV at a rate determined under or by reference to subsection 30(1), was receiving a partner service pension or a veteran payment; and
(d)	a war widower or war widow who, immediately before receiving the weekly amount mentioned in paragraph 234(1)(b) of the MRCA (including a reduced weekly amount because of a choice under section 236 of the MRCA), or a lump sum mentioned in subsection 236(5) of the MRCA, was receiving a partner service pension or a veteran payment.
(2)	A person to whom this section applies does not have to make a proper claim under section 45I to be entitled to income support supplement unless the Commission asks him or her to do so.
(3)	If this section applies to the person other than because of paragraph (1)(ba) and the person is not required by the Commission to make a claim for income support supplement, this Act applies to the person as if:
(a)	the person had made a claim for income support supplement under section 45I on the day on which this Part commenced; and
(b)	the Commission had, on that day, determined under section 45Q that the claim was to be granted.
(4)	If this section applies to the person because of paragraph (1)(ba), and the person is not required by the Commission to make a claim for income support supplement, this Act applies to the person as if:
(a)	the person had made a claim for income support supplement under section 45I on the day on which the person was granted the pension under Part II or Part IV; and
(b)	the Commission had, on that day, determined under section 45Q that the claim was to be granted.
45NA Claim may be withdrawn
(1)	A claimant for income support supplement or a person on behalf of a claimant may withdraw a claim that has not been determined.
(2)	A claim that is withdrawn is taken to have not been made.
(3)	A withdrawal may be made either orally or by document lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
45NC Oral withdrawal of a claim
An oral withdrawal of a claim must be made to a person in an office of the Department in Australia.
45ND Acknowledgment of oral withdrawal of a claim
As soon as practicable after receiving an oral withdrawal of a claim, the Secretary must give the claimant an acknowledgment notice in writing stating that:
(a)	an oral withdrawal of a claim has been made; and
(b)	the claimant, or a person on behalf of the claimant, may, within 28 days from the day on which the acknowledgment notice is given, request the Secretary to treat the withdrawal as if it had not been made.
45NE Reactivating the withdrawn claim
If, within 28 days from the day on which the Secretary gave the acknowledgment notice, the claimant, or a person on behalf of the claimant, requests the Secretary to treat the oral withdrawal of the claim as if it had not been made, the oral withdrawal is taken not to have been made.
Note:	A request made under section 45NE has the effect of reactivating the claim. In particular the commencement day of the claim stays the same.
45NF Secretary may require claimant or claimant’s partner to take action to obtain a comparable foreign pension
(1)	If:
(a)	a person has claimed income support supplement; and
(b)	the Secretary is satisfied that the claimant may be entitled to a comparable foreign pension if the claimant applied for that pension;
the Secretary may give the claimant a notice that requires the claimant to take reasonable action to obtain the comparable foreign pension.
(1A)	If:
(a)	a person has claimed income support supplement; and
(b)	the Secretary is satisfied that the claimant’s partner (if any) may be entitled to a comparable foreign pension if the partner applied for that pension;
the Secretary may give the claimant a notice that requires the partner to take reasonable action to obtain the comparable foreign pension.
(2)	A notice under subsection (1) or (1A):
(a)	must be in writing; and
(b)	must be given personally or by post; and
(c)	must state the period within which reasonable action must be taken.
(3)	The period stated under paragraph (2)(c) must end at least 14 days after the day on which the notice is given.
(4)	The Commission may reject a claim if:
(a)	the claimant is given a notice under subsection (1) or (1A); and
(b)	the Commission is satisfied that the claimant, or the claimant’s partner, has not taken reasonable action to obtain the comparable foreign pension within the period stated in the notice.
(5)	For the purposes of this section, a person takes reasonable action to obtain a comparable foreign pension only if the person takes reasonable action to obtain the pension at the highest rate applicable to the person.
	Division 3 — Investigation of claim
45P Secretary to investigate claim and submit it to Commission
(1)	If a person makes a proper claim for income support supplement, the Secretary must cause an investigation to be made into the matters to which the claim relates.
(2)	When the investigation is completed, the Secretary must cause the claim to be submitted to the Commission for consideration and determination.
(3)	When the claim is submitted to the Commission it must be accompanied by:
(a)	any evidence supplied by the claimant in support of the claim; and
(b)	any documents or other evidence obtained by the Department in the course of the investigation that are relevant to the claim; and
(c)	any other documents or other evidence under the control of the Department that are relevant to the claim.
	Division 4 — Consideration and determination of claim
45Q Duties of Commission in relation to claim
Determination of claim
(1)	When the claim is submitted to the Commission, the Commission must:
(a)	consider the claim; and
(b)	satisfy itself with respect to all matters relevant to the determination of the claim; and
(c)	determine all matters requiring determination before the claim can be determined; and
(d)	determine the claim as provided by subsection (4).
(3)	Without limiting subsection (1), the Commission, in considering the claim, must consider:
(a)	the evidence submitted with the claim under section 45P; and
(b)	any further evidence subsequently submitted to the Commission in relation to the claim.
(4)	The Commission must determine the claim as follows:
(a)	first, the Commission must determine whether income support supplement is to be granted to the person; and
(b)	if the Commission determines that income support supplement is to be granted to the person, the Commission then must:
(i)	work out the person’s income support supplement rate under section 45S; and
(ii)	determine that income support supplement is payable to the person at that rate; and
(c)	if:
(i)	the person’s claim states the person is permanently incapacitated for work; and
(ii)	at the time the Commission determines that income support supplement is to be granted to the person, the Commission is satisfied that the person is permanently incapacitated for work in accordance with a determination under section 45QA;
the Commission must determine that income support supplement is payable to the person on the grounds of permanent incapacity.
Note:	Section 52-65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 provides for payments of income support supplement to be exempt from income tax in certain situations if the supplement is received on the grounds of permanent incapacity.
Record of determination and reasons
(5)	When the Commission determines the claim it must make a written record of its determination.
(6)	The Commission must also make a statement in writing about the determination that:
(a)	sets out the Commission’s findings on material questions of fact; and
(b)	refers to the evidence or other material on which those findings are based; and
(c)	provides reasons for the Commission’s determination.
Notification of determination
(7)	As soon as practicable after the Commission determines a claim under subsection (1), the Commission must give the person who made the claim:
(a)	a copy of the record of the Commission’s determination; and
(b)	subject to subsection (8), a copy of the statement about the determination referred to in subsection (6); and
(c)	particulars of the right of the person who made the claim to have the determination reviewed by the Commission.
(8)	If the statement referred to in paragraph (7)(b) contains any matter that, in the opinion of the Commission:
(a)	is of a confidential nature; or
(b)	might, if communicated to the person who made the claim, be prejudicial to his or her physical or mental health or well-being;
the copy given to the person is not to contain that matter.
Note:	A claimant may apply to the Commission for review of a determination made under this section (see Division 16 of Part IIIB).
45QA Commission must determine circumstances in which persons are permanently incapacitated for work
(1)	The Commission must, by legislative instrument, determine the circumstances in which persons are permanently incapacitated for work for the purposes of subparagraph 45Q(4)(c)(ii).
(2)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, vary or revoke a determination under subsection (1).
45R Date of effect of determination
(1)	If the Commission determines under section 45Q that income support supplement is payable to the person:
(a)	the determination takes effect on the day on which the determination is made or on such later or earlier day as is specified in the determination; and
(b)	subject to this Act, income support supplement is payable to the person at the rate specified in the determination.
Note:	Income support supplement is not payable to a person who is receiving a service pension, a veteran payment or a social security pension or benefit (see section 45D).
(2)	Despite paragraph (1)(a), if:
(a)	any of the following applies:
(i)	a pension is payable to a person under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to subsection 30(1) from a particular day (the benefit day); or
(ii)	a lump sum mentioned in subsection 236(5) of the MRCA is payable to a person, in respect of the death of a deceased member on a particular day (the benefit day); or
(iii)	the weekly amount mentioned in paragraph 234(1)(b) of the MRCA (including a reduced weekly amount because of a choice under section 236 of the MRCA) is payable to a person from a particular day (the benefit day); and
(b)	as a result, a social security pension or a social security benefit that was payable to the person immediately before the benefit day is no longer payable; and
(c)	the person makes a claim for income support supplement on a day (the ISS claim day) after the benefit day; and
(d)	had the person made a claim for income support supplement on the benefit day, he or she would have been eligible for income support supplement throughout the period beginning on the benefit day and ending on the ISS claim day;
the determination takes effect on, and income support supplement is payable to the person on and from, the benefit day.
	Division 5 — Rate of income support supplement
45S How to work out the rate of income support supplement
(1)	The rate of income support supplement is to be calculated in accordance with the Rate Calculator.
Part IIIAA—Veteran payment
45SA Simplified outline
The Commission may make a legislative instrument providing for a payment to a person who has made a claim for certain mental injuries or mental diseases.
The payment is made before the claim is determined.
Payments may also be made under the instrument to the partner of such a person.
45SB Veteran payment
(1)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, make provision for and in relation to the making of a payment (a veteran payment) to a person (the primary person) for whom the following criteria are met:
(a)	the primary person has made:
(i)	a claim under section 319 of the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 2004 of a kind covered by paragraph 319(1)(a) of that Act; or
(ii)	a claim under section 54 of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988;
(b)	for a claim under section 319 of the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 2004—the claim is for:
(i)	an injury (within the meaning of that Act) sustained by the primary person that is a mental injury, including the recurrence of a mental injury; or
(ii)	a disease (within the meaning of that Act) contracted by the primary person that is a mental ailment, disorder, defect or morbid condition (whether of sudden onset or gradual development), including the recurrence of such an ailment, disorder, defect or morbid condition;
(c)	for a claim under section 54 of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988—the claim is for:
(i)	an injury (within the meaning of that Act) suffered by the primary person that is a mental injury, including an aggravation of a mental injury; or
(ii)	an injury (within the meaning of that Act) that is a disease (within the meaning of that Act) suffered by the primary person that is a mental ailment, disorder, defect or morbid condition (whether of sudden onset or gradual development), including an aggravation of such a mental ailment, disorder, defect or morbid condition;
(d)	the primary person is incapable of undertaking remunerative work for periods aggregating more than 8 hours per week;
(e)	the primary person is an Australian resident, and is in Australia, on the day the claim referred to in paragraph (a) is made;
(f)	the primary person has not reached pension age (within the meaning of subsections 5QB(2), (3), (4) and (5)) on the day the claim referred to in paragraph (a) is made;
(g)	the Commission has not determined the claim.
Payment to partner
(2)	An instrument under subsection (1) must also make provision for and in relation to the making of a payment (also a veteran payment) to the primary person’s partner (if any) in the following circumstances:
(a)	the primary person is receiving a veteran payment referred to in subsection (1);
(b)	the primary person’s partner is an Australian resident, and is in Australia, on the day the claim referred to in paragraph (1)(a) is made.
(3)	An instrument under subsection (1) may also make provision for the making of a payment (also a veteran payment) to the primary person’s partner in the following circumstances:
(a)	the primary person dies;
(b)	the primary person is receiving a veteran payment referred to in subsection (1) immediately before his or her death;
(c)	the primary person’s partner is receiving a veteran payment referred to in subsection (2) immediately before that death.
Matters instrument may deal with
(4)	Without limiting subsection (1), an instrument under subsection (1) may make provision for and in relation to the following:
(a)	further eligibility criteria for a veteran payment;
(b)	what a person has to do to get a veteran payment;
(c)	the duration of a veteran payment (which may include a period before or after the claim referred to in paragraph (1)(a) is determined);
(d)	the conditions that apply to a person receiving a veteran payment;
(e)	the suspension or cancellation of a veteran payment;
(f)	the effect of the death of the primary person before the Commission has decided whether the primary person is eligible for a veteran payment;
(g)	administrative matters, such as determination of entitlement to a veteran payment and how and when payments of a veteran payment will be made.
(5)	Without limiting paragraph (4)(a), the criteria may depend on the Commission being satisfied of one or more specified matters.
Rate
(6)	The rate of a veteran payment referred to in subsection (1), (2) or (3) is worked out in accordance with the Rate Calculator.
Note:	Module A of the Rate Calculator establishes the overall rate calculation process and the remaining Modules provide for the calculation of the component amounts used in the overall rate calculation process.
Restriction on dual payments
(7)	A veteran payment referred to in subsection (1), (2) or (3) is not payable to a person if the person:
(a)	is receiving a service pension; or
(b)	is receiving a pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to subsection 30(1); or
(c)	is receiving compensation under Part 3 or 4 of Chapter 4 of the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 2004 or receiving Special Rate Disability Pension under Part 6 of that chapter; or
(d)	is receiving compensation under section 19, 20, 21, 21A or 22 of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988.
(8)	A veteran payment referred to in subsection (2) or (3) is not payable to a person if the person is a wholly dependent partner (within the meaning of the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 2004) of a deceased member (within the meaning of that Act).
(9)	If:
(a)	a payment is made in respect of a person under the ABSTUDY Scheme; and
(b)	the payment is made on the basis that the person is a full-time student; and
(c)	in the calculation of the payment, an amount identified as living allowance is included; and
(d)	the payment relates to a period;
a veteran payment referred to in subsection (1), (2) or (3) is not payable to the person in respect of any part of the period.
Incorporation of other instruments
(10)	Despite subsection 14(2) of the Legislation Act 2003, an instrument under subsection (1) of this section may make provision in relation to a matter by applying, adopting or incorporating, with or without modification, any matter contained in an instrument or other writing as in force or existing from time to time.
Part IIIAB—Pension bonus
	Division 1 — Introduction
45T Simplified outline
The following is a simplified outline of this Part:
•	A person may be able to get a single lump-sum pension bonus if:
(a)	the person becomes eligible for an age service pension, but defers claiming it; or
(b)	the person is eligible for a partner service pension after reaching pension age, but defers claiming it; or
(c)	the person is eligible for income support supplement after reaching qualifying age, but defers claiming it.
•	A person who wants to get a pension bonus must register as a member of the pension bonus scheme. An application for registration cannot be made on or after 1 July 2014.
•	To get a pension bonus, a person must accrue between 1 and 5 bonus periods while deferring age service pension, partner service pension or income support supplement.
•	Generally, a bonus period runs for 1 year.
•	To accrue a bonus period, the person must pass the work test for that period.
•	To pass the work test for a year, either the person, or the person’s partner, must gainfully work for at least 960 hours during that year.
•	The amount of a person’s pension bonus depends on the number of accrued bonus periods and the person’s annual rate of age service pension, partner service pension or income support supplement. A person may get a bigger bonus by accruing more bonus periods.
•	Division 12 modifies the other provisions of the Part to deal with the case where a person was, before becoming a war widow/war widower—pensioner, either registered, or eligible to be registered, as a member of the pension bonus scheme under Part 2.2A of the Social Security Act 1991.
45TA Definitions
In this Part:
accruing member of the pension bonus scheme has the meaning given by section 45TM.
bonus period has the meaning given by section 45TR.
carer payment means carer payment under the Social Security Act.
carer preclusion period has the meaning given by section 45UU.
designated pension means:
(a)	age service pension; or
(b)	partner service pension; or
(c)	income support supplement.
disposal preclusion period has the meaning given by section 45UT or 45UTA.
full-year period means a continuous period of 365 days.
gainful work has the meaning given by sections 45TV to 45TZ (inclusive).
non-accruing member of the pension bonus scheme has the meaning given by sections 45TN and 45TO.
part-year period means a continuous period of less than 365 days.
passing the work test has the meaning given by sections 45TS and 45TT.
PBBP employment income (short for pension bonus bereavement payment employment income) has the meaning given by section 45UUC.
post-70/75 member of the pension bonus scheme has the meaning given by section 45TQ.
registration as a member of the pension bonus scheme means registration under section 45TI.
special date of eligibility, in relation to a designated pension, has the meaning given by section 45TB.
45TB Special date of eligibility for a designated pension
Age service pension
(1)	For the purposes of this Part, a person’s special date of eligibility for an age service pension is the first day on which the person becomes eligible for an age service pension.
Partner service pension
(2)	For the purposes of this Part, a person’s special date of eligibility for a partner service pension is worked out as follows:
(a)	identify the day (the pension age day) on which the person reached pension age;
(b)	the special date of eligibility is the first day occurring on or after the pension age day on which the person is eligible for a partner service pension.
Income support supplement
(3)	For the purposes of this Part, a person’s special date of eligibility for income support supplement is worked out as follows:
(a)	identify the threshold day as whichever of the following days is applicable:
(i)	the day the person reached qualifying age;
(ii)	if the person was granted a pension under Part II or IV after the person reached qualifying age because the person is a war widow or war widower—the day the pension commenced;
(iii)	if, after reaching the qualifying age, the person became entitled to be paid the weekly amount mentioned in paragraph 234(1)(b) of the MRCA (including a reduced weekly amount because of a choice under section 236 of the MRCA) or a lump sum mentioned in subsection 236(5) of the MRCA—the date of the death of the member in respect of whom the weekly amount or lump sum was payable;
(b)	the special date of eligibility is the first day occurring on or after the threshold day on which the person is eligible for income support supplement (other than income support supplement that is payable as a result of the operation of subclause 8(3) of Schedule 5).
Note:	For qualifying age see section 5Q.
Residency assumption
(4)	For the purposes of this Part, a person’s special date of eligibility for a designated pension is to be worked out on the assumption that:
(a)	being an Australian resident; and
(b)	being in Australia;
were additional requirements for the designated pension.
2 or more special dates of eligibility
(5)	For the purposes of this section, if a person would otherwise have 2 or more special dates of eligibility for a designated pension, only the first date is to be counted.
	Division 2 — Qualification for pension bonus
45TC Qualification for pension bonus
Deferral of age service pension
(1)	A person is qualified for a pension bonus if:
(a)	the person starts to receive an age service pension at or after the time when the person makes a claim for the pension bonus; and
(b)	the person has not received an age service pension at any time before making a claim for the pension bonus; and
(c)	the person is registered as a member of the pension bonus scheme; and
(d)	the person has accrued at least one full-year bonus period while registered as a member of the pension bonus scheme; and
(e)	the person has not received:
(i)	a social security pension (other than a carer payment); or
(ii)	a social security benefit; or
(iii)	a service pension (other than an age service pension or a carer service pension); or
(iv)	income support supplement (other than income support supplement that is payable as a result of the operation of subclause 8(3) of Schedule 5);
at any time after the person’s special date of eligibility for an age service pension; and
(f)	the person has not already received:
(i)	another pension bonus; or
(ii)	a pension bonus within the meaning of the Social Security Act.
Deferral of partner service pension
(2)	A person is qualified for a pension bonus if:
(a)	the person starts to receive a partner service pension at or after the time when the person makes a claim for the pension bonus; and
(b)	the person has not received a partner service pension at any time during the period:
(i)	beginning on the person’s special date of eligibility for a partner service pension; and
(ii)	ending immediately before the time when the person makes a claim for the pension bonus; and
(c)	the person is registered as a member of the pension bonus scheme; and
(d)	the person has accrued at least one full-year bonus period while registered as a member of the pension bonus scheme; and
(e)	the person has not received:
(i)	a social security pension (other than a carer payment); or
(ii)	a social security benefit; or
(iii)	a service pension (other than a partner service pension or a carer service pension);
at any time after the person’s special date of eligibility for a partner service pension; and
(f)	the person has not already received:
(i)	another pension bonus; or
(ii)	a pension bonus within the meaning of the Social Security Act.
Deferral of income support supplement
(3)	A person is qualified for a pension bonus if:
(a)	the person starts to receive income support supplement (other than income support supplement that is payable as a result of the operation of subclause 8(3) of Schedule 5) at or after the time when the person makes a claim for the pension bonus; and
(b)	the person has not received income support supplement (other than income support supplement that is payable as a result of the operation of subclause 8(3) of Schedule 5) at any time during the period:
(i)	beginning on the person’s special date of eligibility for income support supplement; and
(ii)	ending immediately before the time when the person makes a claim for the pension bonus; and
(c)	the person is registered as a member of the pension bonus scheme; and
(d)	the person has accrued at least one full-year bonus period while registered as a member of the pension bonus scheme; and
(e)	the person has not received:
(i)	a social security pension (other than a carer payment); or
(ii)	a social security benefit; or
(iii)	a service pension (other than a carer service pension);
at any time after the person’s special date of eligibility for income support supplement; and
(f)	the person has not already received:
(i)	another pension bonus; or
(ii)	a pension bonus within the meaning of the Social Security Act.
	Division 3 — Registration as a member of the pension bonus scheme
Subdivision A—Membership of the pension bonus scheme
45TD Application for registration
(1)	A person may apply for registration as a member of the pension bonus scheme.
(2)	However, a person cannot make an application on or after 1 July 2014.
45TE Making an application
(1)	An application:
(a)	must be in writing; and
(b)	must be in accordance with a form approved by the Commission; and
(c)	must be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(2)	An application lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
45TF Relevant information
(1)	An approved form may require the applicant to provide relevant information (see subsection (4)).
(2)	The Secretary may, by written notice given to the applicant, require the applicant to give the Secretary, within a specified period, further relevant information. The Commission may refuse to register the applicant until the applicant gives the Secretary the information.
(3)	A period specified for the purposes of subsection (2) must run for at least 14 days after the notice was given.
(4)	For the purposes of this section, relevant information includes (but is not limited to):
(a)	information that would be likely to assist the Secretary in advising the applicant about the operation of this Part; and
(b)	information that is relevant to determining whether a disposal preclusion period or carer preclusion period has arisen, or is likely to arise, in relation to the applicant; and
(c)	a statement of the applicant’s present expectations in relation to any or all of the following matters:
(i)	the number of bonus periods that the person is likely to accrue while registered as a member of the pension bonus scheme;
(ii)	the likely nature and extent of the person’s participation in the workforce during those periods;
(iii)	if the person has a partner—the likely nature and extent of the partner’s participation in the workforce during those periods.
45TH Timing of application and registration
Special date of eligibility for designated pension on or after 1 July 1998
(1)	If a person’s special date of eligibility for a designated pension occurs on or after 1 July 1998:
(a)	the person must lodge an application during the period that begins 13 weeks before the person’s special date of eligibility for the designated pension and ends 13 weeks after that date; and
(b)	if registration occurs as a result of an application lodged within that period—the registration takes effect on the person’s special date of eligibility for the designated pension.
Special date of eligibility for designated pension before 1 July 1998
(2)	If a person’s special date of eligibility for a designated pension occurs before 1 July 1998:
(a)	the person must lodge an application during the period that begins on the commencement of this section and ends 13 weeks after 1 July 1998; and
(b)	if registration occurs as a result of an application lodged within that period—the registration takes effect on 1 July 1998.
2 or more special dates of eligibility
(8)	For the purposes of this section, if a person would otherwise have 2 or more special dates of eligibility for a designated pension, only the first date is to be counted.
45TI Registration
(1)	If an application is made in accordance with this Subdivision, the Commission must register the applicant as a member of the pension bonus scheme.
(1A)	However, the Commission must not register a person as a member of the pension bonus scheme if the person’s special date of eligibility for a designated pension occurs on or after 20 September 2009.
(1B)	For the purposes of subsection (1A), if a person would otherwise have 2 or more special dates of eligibility for a designated pension, only the first date is to be counted.
(2)	This section has effect subject to subsection 45TF(2).
45TJ Duration of membership
A person’s membership of the pension bonus scheme begins on the date on which the registration of that membership takes effect and continues until the membership is cancelled under this Act.
45TK Cancellation of membership
A person’s membership of the pension bonus scheme is cancelled if:
(a)	the person’s claim for pension bonus is determined; or
(b)	in a case where the person is eligible for an age service pension—the person starts to receive:
(i)	a social security pension (other than a carer payment); or
(ii)	a social security benefit; or
(iii)	a service pension (other than an age service pension or a carer service pension); or
(iv)	income support supplement (other than income support supplement that is payable as a result of the operation of subclause 8(3) of Schedule 5);
at any time after the person’s special date of eligibility for an age service pension; or
(c)	in a case where the person is eligible for a partner service pension—the person starts to receive:
(i)	a social security pension (other than a carer payment); or
(ii)	a social security benefit; or
(iii)	a service pension (other than a partner service pension or a carer service pension);
at any time after the person’s special date of eligibility for a partner service pension; or
(d)	in a case where the person is eligible for income support supplement (other than income support supplement that is payable as a result of the operation of subclause 8(3) of Schedule 5)—the person starts to receive:
(i)	a social security pension (other than a carer payment); or
(ii)	a social security benefit; or
(iii)	a service pension (other than a carer service pension);
at any time after the person’s special date of eligibility for income support supplement; or
(e)	the person does not make a proper claim for a pension bonus when the person claims a designated pension; or
(f)	the person requests the Commission, in writing, to cancel the person’s membership.
45TL Application for registration is not to be treated as a claim
To avoid doubt, an application for registration as a member of the pension bonus scheme is not to be treated as a claim for the purposes of any law of the Commonwealth.
Subdivision B—Classification of membership of the pension bonus scheme
45TM Accruing membership
For the purposes of this Part, a person’s membership of the pension bonus scheme at a particular time is accruing unless the person’s membership is non-accruing or post-70/75 at that time.
45TN Non-accruing membership—preclusion periods
Disposal preclusion period
(1)	For the purposes of this Part, if a person is subject to a disposal preclusion period at a particular time when the person is a member of the pension bonus scheme, the person’s membership of the scheme is non-accruing at that time.
Note:	Disposal preclusion period is defined by sections 45UT and 45UTA.
Carer preclusion period
(2)	For the purposes of this Part, if a person is subject to a carer preclusion period at a particular time when the person is a member of the pension bonus scheme, the person’s membership of the scheme is non-accruing at that time.
Note:	Carer preclusion period is defined by section 45UU.
45TO Non-accruing membership—Commission’s discretion
(1)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, declare that, for the purposes of this Part, a specified kind of member of the pension bonus scheme is a non-accruing member throughout a period ascertained in accordance with the declaration.
(1A)	A period ascertained in accordance with a declaration made under subsection (1) may begin before the date on which the declaration is registered under that Act.
(1B)	Subsection 12(2) (retrospective application of legislative instruments) of the Legislation Act 2003 does not apply in relation to a declaration made under subsection (1).
(2)	The kinds of members that may be specified under subsection (1) include (but are not limited to):
(a)	a member who is a participant in the Community Development Employment Program; and
(b)	a member who is in gaol; and
(c)	a member who is not a participant in the workforce, but whose partner:
(i)	is a participant in the workforce; and
(ii)	is not a registered member of the pension bonus scheme or of the corresponding scheme under Part 2.2A of the Social Security Act; and
(iii)	intends to become a registered member of the pension bonus scheme or of the corresponding scheme under Part 2.2A of the Social Security Act; and
(d)	a member who is on sick leave for a continuous period of at least 4 weeks and not more than 26 weeks.
45TP Continuity of accruing membership is not broken by a period of non-accruing membership
If:
(a)	a person has been an accruing member of the pension bonus scheme for a continuous period (the first accruing membership period) (including a period that is applicable because of one or more applications of this section); and
(b)	the first accruing membership period is followed by a continuous period of non-accruing membership of the scheme; and
(c)	the period of non-accruing membership is followed by a further continuous period of accruing membership of the scheme (the second accruing membership period);
the first accruing membership period and the second accruing membership period are together taken to constitute a continuous period of accruing membership of the scheme.
45TQ Post-70/75 membership
A person’s membership of the pension bonus scheme is post-70/75 at all times on or after:
(a)	if the person is eligible for an age service pension or income support supplement (other than income support supplement that is payable as a result of the operation of subclause 8(3) of Schedule 5) on the day the person reaches age 70—that day; or
(b)	in any other case—the day the person reaches age 75.
	Division 4 — Accrual of bonus periods
45TR Accrual of bonus periods
Full-year bonus period
(1)	The first bonus period that accrues to a person is the full-year period of the person’s accruing membership of the pension bonus scheme:
(a)	that began on whichever of the following dates is applicable:
(i)	if the person was an accruing member of the pension bonus scheme on the date the person’s registration as a member took effect—the date the registration took effect;
(ii)	in any other case—the date on which the person first became an accruing member of the pension bonus scheme; and
(b)	for which the person passes the work test.
Note:	Accruing membership is defined by section 45TM.
(2)	Each succeeding full-year period of the person’s accruing membership of the pension bonus scheme:
(a)	that is specified in the person’s claim for pension bonus; and
(b)	for which the person passes the work test;
is a bonus period that accrues to the person.
Part-year bonus period
(3)	A part-year period of the person’s accruing membership of the pension bonus scheme is a bonus period that accrues to the person if:
(a)	the person passes the work test for that period; and
(b)	the person specifies the period in the person’s claim for pension bonus; and
(c)	the period begins immediately after the end of a full-year bonus period that accrues to the person; and
(d)	the period is the last bonus period that accrues to the person.
Note:	Accruing membership is defined by section 45TM.
Bonus periods must be consecutive
(4)	A person cannot accrue more than one bonus period unless:
(a)	the bonus periods are consecutive; or
(b)	the bonus periods are separated only by a period of non-accruing membership.
	Division 5 — Passing the work test
Subdivision A—The work test
45TS Work test—full-year period
For the purposes of this Part, a person passes the work test for a full-year period of the person’s accruing membership of the pension bonus scheme if:
(a)	in any case—the person satisfies the Commission that the total number of hours gainfully worked by the person during that period was at least 960 and that at least 640 of that total number of hours were worked in Australia; or
(b)	if the person had only one partner during that period—the person satisfies the Commission that the total number of hours gainfully worked by the person’s partner during that period while the partner was a partner of the person and was:
(i)	an accruing member, or a post-70/75 member, of the pension bonus scheme; or
(ii)	an accruing member, or a post-75 member, of the corresponding scheme under Part 2.2A of the Social Security Act;
was at least 960 and that at least 640 of that total number of hours were worked in Australia; or
(c)	if the person had 2 or more partners during that period—the person satisfies the Commission that the total number of hours gainfully worked by those partners during that period while they were partners of the person and were:
(i)	accruing members, or post-70/75 members, of the pension bonus scheme; or
(ii)	accruing members, or post-75 members, of the corresponding scheme under Part 2.2A of the Social Security Act;
was at least 960 and that at least 640 of that total number of hours were worked in Australia;
and either:
(d)	the person satisfies the Commission that the applicable record-keeping requirements (see section 45UA) have been complied with in relation to that period; or
(e)	the Commission decides to waive compliance with the applicable record-keeping requirements in relation to that period.
45TT Work test—part-year period
(1)	For the purposes of this Part, a person passes the work test for a part-year period of the person’s accruing membership of the pension bonus scheme if:
(a)	in any case—the person satisfies the Commission that the total number of hours gainfully worked by the person during that period was at least the pro-rated number of hours (see subsection (2)) and that at least two-thirds of that total number of hours were worked in Australia; or
(b)	if the person had only one partner during that period—the person satisfies the Commission that the total number of hours gainfully worked by the person’s partner during that period while the partner was a partner of the person and was:
(i)	an accruing member, or a post-70/75 member, of the pension bonus scheme; or
(ii)	an accruing member, or a post-75 member, of the corresponding scheme under Part 2.2A of the Social Security Act;
was at least the pro-rated number of hours (see subsection (2)) and that at least two-thirds of that total number of hours were worked in Australia; or
(c)	if the person had 2 or more partners during that period—the person satisfies the Commission that the total number of hours gainfully worked by those partners during that period while they were partners of the person and were:
(i)	accruing members, or post-70/75 members, of the pension bonus scheme; or
(ii)	accruing members, or post-75 members, of the corresponding scheme under Part 2.2A of the Social Security Act;
was at least the pro-rated number of hours (see subsection (2)) and that at least two-thirds of that total number of hours were worked in Australia;
and either:
(d)	the person satisfies the Commission that the applicable record-keeping requirements (see section 45UA) have been complied with in relation to that period; or
(e)	the Commission decides to waive compliance with the applicable record-keeping requirements in relation to that period.
(2)	For the purposes of this section, the pro-rated number of hours applicable to a period is worked out using the formula:
45TU Commission’s discretion to treat gainful work outside Australia as gainful work in Australia
(1)	If a person satisfies the Commission that:
(a)	the person, or the person’s partner, has carried on gainful work outside Australia; and
(b)	because of special circumstances, the gainful work should be treated as gainful work carried on in Australia;
the Commission may determine that this Part has effect as if the gainful work were carried on in Australia.
(2)	The determination has effect accordingly.
Subdivision B—Gainful work
45TV Gainful work—basic rule
(1)	For the purposes of this Part, gainful work is work for financial gain or reward, whether as an employee, a self-employed person or otherwise, where:
(a)	the work involves a substantial degree of personal exertion on the part of the person concerned; and
(b)	the work is carried on within or outside Australia.
(2)	Subsection (1) is to be ignored in determining the meaning of an expression used in a provision of this Act other than this Part.
45TW Commission’s discretion to treat activity as gainful work
(1)	If a person satisfies the Commission that:
(a)	the person, or the person’s partner, has engaged in a particular activity; and
(b)	the activity involves a substantial degree of personal exertion on the part of the person or the person’s partner, as the case may be; and
(c)	the activity does not consist of voluntary work for a charitable, welfare or community organisation; and
(d)	because of special circumstances, the activity should be treated as gainful work;
the Commission may determine that this Part has effect as if the activity were gainful work.
(2)	The determination has effect accordingly.
45TX Irregular, infrequent and minor absences from a workplace count as gainful work
For the purposes of this Part, if a person is engaged in gainful work, the total hours gainfully worked by the person during a period are to be determined as if the person had been engaged in gainful work during any absences from the workplace that are irregular, infrequent and minor.
45TY Management of family financial investments does not count as gainful work
(1)	Unless the Commission otherwise determines, work undertaken by a person is taken not to be gainful work for the purposes of this Part to the extent to which the work consists of the management or administration of one or more financial investments in which any of the following has a legal or equitable interest:
(a)	a member of the person’s family group (see subsection (2));
(b)	a company that is a family company in relation to the person (see subsection (2));
(c)	the trustee or trustees of a trust that is a family trust in relation to the person (see subsection (2)).
Note:	Financial investment is defined by subsection 5J(1).
(2)	In this section:
family company, in relation to a person, means a company where:
(a)	the company is, or its directors are, accustomed or under an obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of any or all of the members of the person’s family group; or
(b)	any or all of the members of the person’s family group are in a position to cast, or control the casting of, more than 50% of the maximum number of votes that may be cast at a general meeting of the company; or
(c)	both:
(i)	the company has one or more shareholders; and
(ii)	each shareholder is a member of the person’s family group.
family group, in relation to a person, means the group consisting of the person and the family members of the person. If the person has no family members, the person is taken to be a family group in his or her own right.
Note:	Family member is defined by subsection 5L(1).
family trust, in relation to a person, means a trust where a member of the person’s family group benefits, or is capable (whether by the exercise of a power of appointment or otherwise) of benefiting, under the trust.
45TZ Domestic duties in relation to a person’s place of residence do not count as gainful work
(1)	Unless the Commission otherwise determines, work undertaken by a person is taken not to be gainful work for the purposes of this Part if the work consists of carrying out:
(a)	domestic tasks; or
(b)	household maintenance tasks; or
(c)	gardening tasks; or
(d)	similar tasks;
in relation to:
(e)	the person’s place of residence; or
(f)	if the person has 2 or more places of residence—any of those places of residence.
(2)	For the purposes of this section, a place of residence includes:
(a)	if the place is a dwelling-house—any land or building that is adjacent to the dwelling-house and that is used primarily for private or domestic purposes in association with that dwelling-house; or
(b)	if the place is a flat or home unit—a garage or storeroom that is used for private or domestic purposes in association with the flat or home unit.
45U Evidentiary certificate
Hours worked during full-year period
(1)	The Commission may, if requested to do so by a member of the pension bonus scheme, issue a written certificate stating that:
(a)	the member was an accruing member of the scheme throughout a specified full-year period; and
(b)	the total number of hours gainfully worked by the member during that period was at least a specified number of hours; and
(c)	the total number of hours gainfully worked in Australia by the member during that period was at least a specified number of hours.
(2)	The Commission may, if requested to do so by a member of the pension bonus scheme, issue a written certificate stating that:
(a)	the member was an accruing member of the scheme throughout a specified full-year period; and
(b)	the total number of hours gainfully worked by a specified person during that period while the person was the partner of the member and was:
(i)	an accruing member, or a post-70/75 member, of the pension bonus scheme; or
(ii)	an accruing member, or a post-75 member, of the corresponding scheme under Part 2.2A of the Social Security Act;
was at least a specified number of hours; and
(c)	the total number of hours gainfully worked in Australia by a specified person during that period while the person was the partner of the member and was:
(i)	an accruing member, or a post-70/75 member, of the pension bonus scheme; or
(ii)	an accruing member, or a post-75 member, of the corresponding scheme under Part 2.2A of the Social Security Act;
was at least a specified number of hours.
Hours worked during part-year period
(3)	The Commission may, if requested to do so by a member of the pension bonus scheme, issue a written certificate stating:
(a)	that the member was an accruing member of the scheme throughout a specified part-year period; and
(b)	the total number of hours gainfully worked by the member during that period; and
(c)	the total number of hours gainfully worked in Australia by the member during that period.
(4)	The Commission may, if requested to do so by a member of the pension bonus scheme, issue a written certificate stating:
(a)	that the member was an accruing member of the scheme throughout a specified part-year period; and
(b)	the total number of hours gainfully worked by a specified person during that period while the person was the partner of the member and was:
(i)	an accruing member, or a post-70/75 member, of the pension bonus scheme; or
(ii)	an accruing member, or a post-75 member, of the corresponding scheme under Part 2.2A of the Social Security Act; and
(c)	the total number of hours gainfully worked in Australia by a specified person during that period while the person was the partner of the member and was:
(i)	an accruing member, or a post-70/75 member, of the pension bonus scheme; or
(ii)	an accruing member, or a post-75 member, of the corresponding scheme under Part 2.2A of the Social Security Act.
Record-keeping requirements
(5)	If:
(a)	a person makes a request for a certificate under subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4) relating to a particular period; and
(b)	the applicable record-keeping requirements have not been complied with in relation to that period (see section 45UA);
the Commission may refuse to issue the certificate.
Non-accruing membership
(6)	The Commission may, if requested to do so by a member of the pension bonus scheme, issue a written certificate stating that the member was a non-accruing member of the scheme throughout a specified period.
Evidence
(7)	In any proceedings relating to this Part, a certificate under this section is prima facie evidence of the matters in the certificate.
Subdivision C—Record-keeping requirements
45UA Record-keeping requirements
Record-keeping requirements for person
(1)	For the purposes of the application of paragraph 45TS(a) or 45TT(1)(a) or subsection 45U(1) or (3) to a person, the applicable record-keeping requirements have been complied with in relation to a period of the person’s accruing membership of the pension bonus scheme if:
(a)	in a case where the person has:
(i)	been given a group certificate or payment summary (within the meaning of section 16-170 in Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953) in respect of any gainful work carried on by the person during that period; or
(ii)	lodged an income tax return that relates to any gainful work carried on by the person during that period;
the person would be in a position to produce a copy of the certificate or of the return, as the case may be, to the Secretary if the Secretary were to require the person to produce that copy; and
(b)	both:
(i)	the person has kept a recognised work record (see subsection (3)) in relation to gainful work carried on by the person during that period; and
(ii)	the person would be in a position to produce that record to the Secretary if the Secretary were to require the person to produce that record.
Record-keeping requirements for partner of person
(2)	For the purposes of the application of paragraph 45TS(b) or (c) or 45TT(1)(b) or (c) or subsection 45U(2) or (4) to a partner of a person, the applicable record-keeping requirements have been complied with in relation to a period of the person’s accruing membership of the pension bonus scheme if:
(a)	in a case where the partner has been given a group certificate or payment summary (within the meaning of section 16-170 in Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953) in respect of any gainful work carried on by the partner during that period while the partner was a partner of the person and was:
(i)	an accruing member, or a post-70/75 member, of the pension bonus scheme; or
(ii)	an accruing member, or a post-75 member, of the corresponding scheme under Part 2.2A of the Social Security Act;
the person would be in a position to produce a copy of the certificate to the Secretary if the Secretary were to require the person to produce that copy; and
(b)	in a case where the partner has lodged an income tax return that relates to any gainful work carried on by the partner during that period while the partner was a partner of the person and was:
(i)	an accruing member, or a post-70/75 member, of the pension bonus scheme; or
(ii)	an accruing member, or a post-75 member, of the corresponding scheme under Part 2.2A of the Social Security Act;
the person would be in a position to produce a copy of the return to the Secretary if the Secretary were to require the person to produce that copy; and
(c)	in any case—the partner has kept a recognised work record (see subsection (3)) in relation to any gainful work carried on by the partner during that period while the partner was a partner of the person and was:
(i)	an accruing member, or a post-70/75 member, of the pension bonus scheme; or
(ii)	an accruing member, or a post-75 member, of the corresponding scheme under Part 2.2A of the Social Security Act;
and the person would be in a position to produce that record to the Secretary if the Secretary were to require the person to produce that record.
Recognised work record
(3)	For the purposes of this section, a recognised work record, in relation to a person, is a written statement signed by the person that sets out, in relation to gainful work carried on by the person during a particular period:
(a)	the nature of the gainful work; and
(b)	the dates on which the gainful work was carried on; and
(c)	the total number of hours gainfully worked; and
(d)	the total number of hours gainfully worked in Australia; and
(e)	in a case where any of the gainful work was carried on in the capacity of employee—the name or names of the employer or employers concerned; and
(f)	such other particulars as the Secretary requires.
	Division 6 — Amount of pension bonus
45UB How to calculate the amount of pension bonus
(1)	To calculate the amount of a person’s pension bonus:
(a)	work out which of the person’s bonus periods count as qualifying bonus periods (see section 45UC);
(b)	work out the person’s overall qualifying period (see section 45UD);
(c)	work out the person’s pension multiple (see section 45UE);
(d)	work out the person’s annual pension rate (see section 45UF);
(e)	apply the appropriate formula in section 45UG.
Note:	Bonus period is defined by section 45TR.
(2)	For the purposes of this Division, a number of years is to be calculated to 3 decimal places. However, if a number worked out in accordance with this subsection would, if it were calculated to 4 decimal places, end in a digit that is greater than 4, the number is to be increased by 0.001.
45UC Qualifying bonus periods
(1)	For the purposes of this Division, if a person has accrued only one bonus period, that bonus period is the person’s qualifying bonus period.
(2)	For the purposes of this Division, if a person has accrued only 2 bonus periods, each of those bonus periods is a qualifying bonus period.
(3)	For the purposes of this Division, if a person has accrued only 3 bonus periods, each of those bonus periods is a qualifying bonus period.
(4)	For the purposes of this Division, if a person has accrued only 4 bonus periods, each of those bonus periods is a qualifying bonus period.
(5)	For the purposes of this Division, if a person has accrued only 5 bonus periods, each of those bonus periods is a qualifying bonus period.
(6)	For the purposes of this Division, if:
(a)	a person has accrued more than 5 bonus periods; and
(b)	the last bonus period is a full-year period;
each of the 5 most recent bonus periods are qualifying bonus periods.
(7)	For the purposes of this Division, if:
(a)	a person has accrued more than 5 bonus periods; and
(b)	the last bonus period is a part-year period;
each of the 5 most recent full-year bonus periods are qualifying bonus periods.
45UD Overall qualifying period
(1)	For the purposes of this Division, if a person has only one qualifying bonus period, that period is the person’s overall qualifying period.
(2)	For the purposes of this Division, if a person has 2 or more qualifying bonus periods, the person’s overall qualifying period is the period:
(a)	beginning at the start of the first qualifying bonus period; and
(b)	ending at the end of the last qualifying bonus period.
However, any period of non-accruing membership of the pension bonus scheme is taken not to form part of the person’s overall qualifying period.
45UE Pension multiple
For the purposes of this Division, a person’s pension multiple is worked out using the formula:
45UF Annual pension rate
(1)	For the purposes of this Division, a person’s annual pension rate is set out in the following table:
Annual pension rate
Item
In this case:
The person’s annual pension rate is:
1
The person:
(a) is granted an age service pension or a partner service pension; and
(b) is not permanently blind; and
(c) is not a war widow/war widower—pensioner
the rate that would be the person’s provisional payment rate under method statement 1 in subpoint SCH6-A1(2), ascertained as at the date of the grant, if it were assumed that the person’s maximum payment rate were the sum of:
(a) the person’s maximum basic rate under Module B of the Rate Calculator; and
(b) the person’s pension supplement basic amount
2
The person:
(a) is granted an age service pension or a partner service pension; and
(b) is permanently blind; and
(c) is not a war widow/war widower—pensioner
the sum of:
(a) the person’s maximum basic rate under Module B of the Rate Calculator; and
(b) the person’s pension supplement basic amount;
ascertained as at the date of the grant
3
The person:
(a) is granted an age service pension; and
(b) is not permanently blind; and
(c) is a war widow/war widower—pensioner
the lesser of the following rates (or, if the rates are the same, the first rate):
(a) the person’s ceiling rate under point SCH6-A4, ascertained as at the date of the grant;
(b) the rate that would be the person’s provisional payment rate under method statement 1 in subpoint SCH6-A1(2), ascertained as at the date of the grant, if it were assumed that the method statement applied and the person’s maximum payment rate were the sum of:
(i) the person’s maximum basic rate under Module B of the Rate Calculator; and
(ii) the person’s pension supplement basic amount
4
The person:
(a) is granted an age service pension; and
(b) is permanently blind; and
(c) is a war widow/war widower—pensioner
the person’s ceiling rate under point SCH6-A4, ascertained as at the date of the grant
5
The person:
(a) is granted income support supplement; and
(b) is not permanently blind
the rate that would be the person’s provisional payment rate under method statement 5 in subpoint SCH6-A1(6), ascertained as at the date of the grant, if it were assumed that the person’s maximum payment rate were the sum of:
(a) the person’s maximum basic rate under Module B of the Rate Calculator; and
(b) the person’s pension supplement basic amount
6
The person:
(a) is granted income support supplement; and
(b) is permanently blind
the person’s ceiling rate under point SCH6-A4, ascertained as at the date of the grant
(2)	The annual pension rate is to be worked out under subsection (1) by disregarding the amendments made by Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the Social Services and Other Legislation Amendment (Simplifying Income Reporting and Other Measures) Act 2020.
45UG Amount of pension bonus
No change in couple status during overall qualifying period
(1)	If:
(a)	a person either:
(i)	was a member of a couple throughout the person’s overall qualifying period; or
(ii)	was not a member of a couple at any time during that period; and
(b)	the person remained eligible for the same pension throughout that period; and
(c)	if the person is a war widow/war widower—pensioner—the person was such a person during the whole of the person’s overall qualifying period;
the amount of the person’s pension bonus is worked out using the following formula (for rounding up, see subsection (4)):
(1A)	If:
(a)	a person either:
(i)	was a member of a couple throughout the person’s overall qualifying period; or
(ii)	was not a member of a couple at any time during that period; and
(b)	the person is a war widow/war widower—pensioner; and
(c)	the person was not a war widow/war widower—pensioner throughout some or all of the person’s overall qualifying period;
the amount of the person’s pension bonus is worked out using the following formula (for rounding up, see subsection (4)):
where:
apportioned amount has the meaning given by section 45UIA.
Change in couple status during overall qualifying period
(2)	If neither subsection (1) nor (1A) applies to a person, the amount of the person’s pension bonus is worked out using the following formula (for rounding up, see subsection (4)):
where:
annual notional single pension rate has the meaning given by section 45UH.
annual notional partnered pension rate has the meaning given by section 45UI.
(3)	For the purposes of this section:
(a)	the number of single years during the overall qualifying period is the number of years during the overall qualifying period when the person was not a member of a couple; and
(b)	the number of partnered years during the overall qualifying period is the number of years during the overall qualifying period when the person was a member of a couple.
Rounding up
(4)	An amount calculated under subsection (1), (1A) or (2) is to be rounded to the nearest 10 cents (with 5 cents being rounded up).
45UH Annual notional single pension rate
(1)	For the purposes of this Division, a person’s annual notional single pension rate is set out in the following table:
Annual notional single pension rate
Item
In this case:
The person’s annual notional single pension rate is:
1
The person:
(a) is not permanently blind; and
(b) is not a war widow/war widower—pensioner
the sum of the adjusted percentage of the person’s maximum basic rate under point SCH6-B1 and the person’s pension supplement basic amount, worked out, in each case, as at the date of grant of the designated pension if it were assumed that the person were not a member of a couple at that date
2
The person:
(a) is permanently blind; and
(b) is not a war widow/war widower—pensioner
the sum of the person’s maximum basic rate under point SCH6-B1 and the person’s pension supplement basic amount, ascertained as at the date of grant of the designated pension, if it were assumed that the person was not a member of a couple as at that date
3
The person:
(a) is a war widow/war widower—pensioner; and
(b) was a war widow/war widower—pensioner throughout so much of the overall qualifying period as occurred when the person was not a member of a couple
the person’s annual pension rate worked out as at the date of grant of the designated pension
4
The person:
(a) is a war widow/war widower—pensioner; but
(b) was not a war widow/war widower—pensioner for some or all of the overall qualifying period occurring while the person was not a member of a couple
the apportioned single amount worked out under subsection (2)
(2)	For the purposes of this section, the apportioned single amount is:
where:
period not a war widow or war widower is the number of days in so much of the single part of overall qualifying period as occurred when the person was not a war widow/war widower—pensioner.
single part of overall qualifying period is the number of days in so much of the overall qualifying period as occurred when the person was not a member of a couple.
provisional payment rate is:
(a)	if the person:
(i)	has, during some or all of the single part of the person’s overall qualifying period, deferred an age service pension or a partner service pension; and
(ii)	the person is not permanently blind;
the sum of the adjusted percentage of the person’s maximum basic rate under point SCH6-B1 and the person’s pension supplement basic amount worked out, in each case, as at the date of grant of the designated pension if it were assumed that the person were not a member of a couple at that date; or
(b)	if the person:
(i)	has, during some or all of the single part of the person’s overall qualifying period, deferred an age service pension or a partner service pension; and
(ii)	the person is permanently blind;
the sum of the person’s maximum basic rate under point SCH6-B1 and the person’s pension supplement basic amount, worked out as at the date of grant of the designated pension if it were assumed that the person were not a member of a couple at that date; or
(c)	if the person:
(i)	has, during some or all of the single part of the person’s overall qualifying period, deferred an age pension; and
(ii)	is not permanently blind;
the sum of:
(iii)	the adjusted percentage of the person’s maximum basic rate under Table B in point 1064-B1 of the Social Security Act 1991; and
(iv)	the person’s pension supplement basic amount;
worked out, in each case, as at the date of grant of the designated pension if it were assumed that the person were not a member of a couple at that date; or
(d)	if the person:
(i)	has, during some or all of the single part of the person’s overall qualifying period, deferred an age pension; and
(ii)	is permanently blind;
the sum of:
(iii)	the maximum basic rate under Table B in point 1065-B1 of the Social Security Act 1991; and
(iv)	the person’s pension supplement basic amount;
worked out, in each case, as at the date of grant of the designated pension if it were assumed that the person were not a member of a couple at that date.
period a war widow or war widower is the number of days in so much of the single part of overall qualifying period as occurred when the person was a war widow/war widower—pensioner.
annual pension rate is the person’s annual pension rate, worked out as at the date of grant of the designated pension, in accordance with section 45UF.
Note:	There may be circumstances where one or other of the bracketed parts of the formula will have a nil value.
(3)	For the purposes of this section, a person’s adjusted percentage is the percentage worked out using the following formula (for rounding up, see subsection (4)):
where:
maximum basic rate is the sum of the person’s maximum basic rate under point SCH6-B1 and the person’s pension supplement basic amount, ascertained as at the date of grant of the designated pension.
(4)	A percentage worked out under subsection (3) is to be calculated to 3 decimal places. However, if a percentage worked out under subsection (3) would, if it were calculated to 4 decimal places, end in a digit that is greater than 4, the percentage is to be increased by 0.001.
45UI Annual notional partnered pension rate
(1)	For the purposes of this Division, a person’s annual notional partnered pension rate is set out in the following table:
Annual notional partnered pension rate
Item
In this case:
The person’s annual notional partnered pension rate is:
1
The person:
(a) is not permanently blind; and
(b) is not a war widow/war widower—pensioner
the sum of the adjusted percentage of the person’s maximum basic rate under point SCH6-B1 and the person’s pension supplement basic amount, worked out, in each case, as at the date of grant of the designated pension if it were assumed that the person were a member of a couple at that date
2
The person:
(a) is permanently blind; and
(b) is not a war widow/war widower—pensioner
the sum of the person’s maximum basic rate under point SCH6-B1 and the person’s pension supplement basic amount, ascertained as at the date of grant of the designated pension, if it were assumed that the person was a member of a couple as at that date
3
The person:
(a) is a war widow/war widower—pensioner; and
(b) was a war widow/war widower—pensioner throughout so much of the overall qualifying period as occurred when the person was a member of a couple
the person’s annual pension rate worked out as at the date of grant of the designated pension
4
The person:
(a) is a war widow/war widower—pensioner; but
(b) was not a war widow/war widower—pensioner for some or all of the overall qualifying period occurring while the person was a member of a couple
the apportioned partnered amount worked out under subsection (2)
(2)	For the purposes of this section, the apportioned partnered amount is:
where:
period not a war widow or war widower is the number of days in so much of the partner part of overall qualifying period as occurred when the person was not a war widow/war widower—pensioner.
partner part of overall qualifying period is the number of days in so much of the overall qualifying period as occurred when the person was a member of a couple.
provisional payment rate is:
(a)	if the person:
(i)	has, during some or all of the partnered part of the person’s overall qualifying period, deferred an age service pension or a partner service pension; and
(ii)	is not permanently blind;
the sum of the adjusted percentage of the person’s maximum basic rate under point SCH6-B1 and the person’s pension supplement basic amount worked out, in each case, as at the date of grant of the designated pension if it were assumed that the person were a member of a couple at that date; or
(b)	if the person:
(i)	has, during some or all of the partnered part of the person’s overall qualifying period, deferred an age service pension or a partner service pension; and
(ii)	the person is permanently blind;
the sum of the person’s maximum basic rate under point SCH6-B1 and the person’s pension supplement basic amount, worked out as at the date of grant of the designated pension if it were assumed that the person were a member of a couple at that date; or
(c)	if the person:
(i)	has, during some or all of the partnered part of the person’s overall qualifying period, deferred an age pension; and
(ii)	is not permanently blind;
the sum of:
(iii)	the adjusted percentage of the person’s maximum basic rate under Table B in point 1064-B1 of the Social Security Act 1991; and
(iv)	the person’s pension supplement basic amount;
worked out, in each case, as at the date of grant of the designated pension if it were assumed that the person were a member of a couple at that date; or
(d)	if the person:
(i)	has, during some or all of the partnered part of the person’s overall qualifying period, deferred an age pension; and
(ii)	is permanently blind;
the sum of:
(iii)	the maximum basic rate under Table B in point 1065-B1 of the Social Security Act 1991; and
(iv)	the person’s pension supplement basic amount;
worked out, in each case, as at the date of grant of the designated pension if it were assumed that the person were a member of a couple at that date.
period a war widow or war widower is the number of days in so much of the partner part of overall qualifying period as occurred when the person was a war widow/war widower—pensioner.
annual pension rate is the person’s annual pension rate, worked out as at the date of grant of the designated pension, in accordance with section 45UF.
Note:	There may be circumstances where one or other of the bracketed parts of the formula will have a nil value.
(3)	For the purposes of this section, a person’s adjusted percentage is the percentage worked out using the following formula (for rounding up, see subsection (4)):
where:
maximum basic rate is the sum of the person’s maximum basic rate under point SCH6-B1 and the person’s pension supplement basic amount, ascertained as at the date of grant of the designated pension.
(4)	A percentage worked out under subsection (3) is to be calculated to 3 decimal places. However, if a percentage worked out under subsection (3) would, if it were calculated to 4 decimal places, end in a digit that is greater than 4, the percentage is to be increased by 0.001.
45UIA Apportioned amount
For the purposes of subsection 45UG(1A), the apportioned amount is:
where:
annual pension rate is the person’s annual pension rate, worked out as at the date of grant of the designated pension, in accordance with section 45UF.
period a war widow or war widower is the number of days in so much of the overall qualifying period as occurred when the person was a war widow/war widower—pensioner.
period not a war widow or war widower is the number of days in so much of the overall qualifying period as occurred when the person was not a war widow/war widower—pensioner.
provisional payment rate is:
(a)	if the person has, during some or all of the person’s overall qualifying period, deferred:
(i)	an age service pension; or
(ii)	a partner service pension; and
the person is not permanently blind—the person’s provisional payment rate under method statement 1 in subpoint SCH6-A1(2), worked out as at the date of grant of the designated pension, if it were assumed that the person’s maximum payment rate were the sum of the person’s maximum basic rate under point SCH6-B1 and the person’s pension supplement basic amount; or
(b)	if the person has, during some or all of the person’s overall qualifying period, deferred:
(i)	an age service pension; or
(ii)	a partner service pension; and
the person is permanently blind—the sum of the person’s maximum basic rate under point SCH6-B1 and the person’s pension supplement basic amount, worked out as at the date of grant of the designated pension; or
(c)	if the person has, during some or all of the person’s overall qualifying period, deferred age pension and is not permanently blind—the person’s provisional annual payment rate under the method statement in point 1064-A1 of the Social Security Act 1991, worked out as at the date of grant of the designated pension, if it were assumed that the person’s maximum payment rate were the sum of the person’s maximum basic rate under Table B in point 1064-B1 of the Social Security Act 1991 and the person’s pension supplement basic amount; or
(d)	if the person has, during some or all of the person’s overall qualifying period, deferred age pension and is permanently blind—the sum of the maximum basic rate under Table B in point 1065-B1 of the Social Security Act 1991 and the person’s pension supplement basic amount, worked out as at the date of grant of the designated pension.
Note:	If the person did not accrue any pension bonus in relation to the designated pension, the latter bracketed part of the formula for the apportioned amount will have a nil value.
45UIB Top up of pension bonus for increased rate of designated pension
(1)	The Commission may determine (a top up determination) that a person’s pension bonus is to be increased if:
(a)	the Commission makes a determination (a rate determination) increasing the rate of the person’s designated pension; and
(b)	the rate determination takes effect on a day that is not more than 13 weeks after the date (the effective date) on which the determination granting the pension bonus takes effect; and
(c)	the rate determination is made because of a reduction since the effective date in either or both of the following:
(i)	the value of the person’s assets;
(ii)	the person’s ordinary income.
Note:	Any reduction in the value of a person’s assets or the person’s income will be determined by applying the assets test and the ordinary/adjusted income test in the Rate Calculator in Schedule 6.
(2)	The person’s pension bonus is increased by the difference between:
(a)	the person’s amount of pension bonus on the effective date; and
(b)	the amount that would have been the person’s amount of pension bonus on the effective date if the rate of the person’s designated pension on that date had been the highest rate at which the designated pension was payable to the person during the 13 weeks after the effective date.
(3)	A top up determination takes effect on the day on which the determination is made or on any earlier or later day specified in the determination.
(4)	A top up determination is not a legislative instrument.
45UIC Top up of pension bonus in specified circumstances
(1)	The Commission may determine (a top up determination) that a person’s pension bonus is to be increased if:
(a)	the Commission makes a determination (a rate determination) increasing the rate of the person’s designated pension; and
(b)	the rate of the designated pension is increased in circumstances specified in an instrument made under subsection (6).
(2)	The person’s pension bonus is increased by the amount specified by the Commission in the top up determination.
(3)	The Commission must not specify an increase that would be greater than the difference between:
(a)	the person’s amount of pension bonus on the day on which the determination granting the bonus takes effect; and
(b)	the amount that would have been the person’s amount of pension bonus on that day if the rate of the person’s designated pension on that day had been the rate specified in the rate determination.
(4)	A top up determination takes effect on the day on which the determination is made or on any earlier or later day specified in the determination.
(5)	A top up determination is not a legislative instrument.
(6)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, specify circumstances (other than circumstances specified in subsection 45UIB(1)) for the purposes of paragraph (1)(b).
	Division 7 — Claim for pension bonus
45UJ Need for a claim
A person who wants to be granted a pension bonus must make a proper claim for the bonus.
45UK Proper claim
(1)	To be a proper claim, a claim for pension bonus must be:
(a)	in writing; and
(b)	in accordance with a form approved by the Commission; and
(c)	one of the following:
(i)	attached to, or submitted in relation to, a proper claim made by the person for a designated pension;
(ii)	made in accordance with an invitation under subsection (3);
(iii)	the subject of a determination under subsection (5); and
(d)	lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T within the applicable lodgment period (see section 45UL).
(1A)	A claim for pension bonus can only be attached to a proper claim for a designated pension in accordance with subparagraph (1)(c)(i) if neither claim is transmitted electronically.
(1B)	A claim for pension bonus lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
(2)	A claim for pension bonus is a proper claim even though it is not certain whether the person will start to receive a designated pension at or after the time when the person makes the claim. The claim has effect as a claim that is contingent on the person receiving a designated pension.
(3)	If:
(a)	a person makes a proper claim for a designated pension; and
(b)	the claim is in accordance with a form that does not require the claimant to disclose whether the claimant is a registered member of:
(i)	the pension bonus scheme; or
(ii)	the corresponding scheme under Part 2.2A of the Social Security Act; and
(c)	the person is, to the knowledge of the Secretary, registered as a member of the pension bonus scheme; and
(d)	a claim by the person for pension bonus is not attached to the claim for the designated pension;
the Secretary must give the claimant a written notice inviting the claimant to lodge a claim for pension bonus at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T, within such period after the lodgment of the claim for the designated pension as is specified in the invitation.
(3A)	A claim for pension bonus lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
(4)	If a claim for pension bonus is made in accordance with an invitation under subsection (3), this Part (other than this section) has effect as if the person had claimed the pension bonus at the same time as the person claimed the designated pension.
(5)	If:
(a)	a person who is a registered member of the pension bonus scheme lodges a claim for a designated pension; and
(b)	a claim for pension bonus for the person is lodged after the claim for the designated pension; and
(c)	the Commission is satisfied that, having regard to guidelines (if any) made under subsection (6), special circumstances apply in relation to the lodgment of the claim for pension bonus;
the Commission may determine that this Part (other than this section) has effect as if the claim for the pension bonus had been made at the time the person claimed the designated pension.
(6)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, make guidelines for the purposes of subsection (5).
45UL Lodgment period for claim
(1)	This section sets out rules for determining the period (the lodgment period) within which a claim for pension bonus must be made.
(1A)	However, the Commission may in special circumstances allow a person a longer period to make a claim than the period determined under this section. If the Commission does so, the lodgment period for the person’s claim is the period allowed by the Commission.
(1AB)	Subsection (1A) does not apply in relation to a claim for which the lodgment period is determined under subsection (3).
Lodgment period where last bonus period is a full-year period
(2)	If a person’s last bonus period is a full-year period, the lodgment period applicable to the person’s claim for pension bonus is the period of 13 weeks beginning at the end of that bonus period. However, this rule does not apply if:
(a)	the person is an exempt partnered person (see subsection (8)) as at the end of the person’s last bonus period; or
(b)	the person’s membership of the pension bonus scheme becomes non-accruing immediately after the end of the person’s last bonus period; or
(c)	the person is a post-70/75 member of the pension bonus scheme and has a post-70/75 work period (see subsection (9)).
Note:	For the rule in these cases, see subsections (5), (6) and (7).
Lodgment period where last bonus period is a part-year period
(3)	If a person’s last bonus period is a part-year period, the lodgment period applicable to the person’s claim for pension bonus is:
(a)	the period of 13 weeks beginning at the end of that bonus period; or
(b)	if the Commission allows a longer period—that longer period.
However, this rule does not apply if:
(c)	the person is an exempt partnered person (see subsection (8)) as at the end of the person’s last bonus period; or
(d)	the person’s membership of the pension bonus scheme becomes non-accruing immediately after the end of the person’s last bonus period; or
(e)	the person is a post-70/75 member of the pension bonus scheme and has a post-70/75 work period (see subsection (9)).
Note:	For the rule in these cases, see subsections (5), (6) and (7).
(4)	If:
(a)	subsection (3) applies to a person’s claim for pension bonus; and
(b)	the claim is lodged within a period allowed under paragraph (3)(b);
Division 6 has effect, in relation to the calculation of the amount of that pension bonus, as if the person had not accrued the part-year bonus period.
Lodgment period for exempt partnered person
(5)	If a person is an exempt partnered person as at the end of the person’s last bonus period because the person is a member of a couple, the lodgment period applicable to the person’s claim for pension bonus is the period:
(a)	beginning at the end of that bonus period; and
(b)	ending at:
(i)	the time of the last occasion on which the person’s partner could have lodged a claim for a pension bonus; or
(ii)	the end of the period of 13 weeks after the person ceases to be a member of the same couple (whether because of the death of the person’s partner or for any other reason);
whichever comes first.
Lodgment period for non-accruing member
(6)	If a person’s membership of the pension bonus scheme becomes non-accruing immediately after the end of the person’s last bonus period, the lodgment period applicable to the person’s claim for pension bonus is the period:
(a)	beginning at the end of the person’s last bonus period; and
(b)	ending 13 weeks after the time when the person’s membership of the scheme ceases to be non-accruing.
Lodgment period for post-70/75 member who has a post-70/75 work period
(7)	If a post-70/75 member of the pension bonus scheme has a post-70/75 work period, the lodgment period applicable to the person’s claim for pension bonus is the period of 13 weeks beginning at the end of the period nominated in the claim as the person’s post-70/75 work period.
Exempt partnered person
(8)	For the purposes of this section, a person is an exempt partnered person at a particular time if, at that time, the person is a member of a couple, and:
(a)	the person’s partner is an accruing or non-accruing member of the pension bonus scheme; or
(b)	the person’s partner is an accruing or non-accruing member of the corresponding scheme under Part 2.2A of the Social Security Act.
Post-70/75 member with a post-70/75 work period
(9)	For the purposes of this section, a post-70/75 member of the pension bonus scheme has a post-70/75 work period if:
(a)	the person’s claim for pension bonus nominates a particular period as the person’s post-70/75 work period; and
(b)	the nominated period begins immediately after the end of the person’s last bonus period; and
(c)	if it were assumed that the person had been an accruing member of the pension bonus scheme throughout each test period that is applicable to the person, the person would have passed the work test for each test period.
Note:	Test period is defined by subsection (10).
(10)	For the purposes of subsection (9), to work out what is a test period:
(a)	identify the extended period, which is that part of the nominated period when the person was neither:
(i)	subject to a carer preclusion period; nor
(ii)	covered by a declaration under section 45TO;
(b)	if the extended period is 365 days or less—the extended period is the only test period;
(c)	if the extended period is longer than 365 days—each of the following periods is a test period:
(i)	the full-year period beginning at the start of the extended period;
(ii)	if 2 or more succeeding full-year periods are included in the extended period—each of those full-year periods;
(iii)	the remainder (if any) of the extended period.
(11)	In addition to its effect apart from this subsection, section 45U (evidentiary certificates) also has the effect it would have if each reference in paragraph 45U(1)(a), (2)(a), (3)(a) or (4)(a) to an accruing member of the pension bonus scheme were a reference to a post-70/75 member of the scheme.
Last bonus period
(12)	For the purposes of this section, if a person has accrued only one full year bonus period, that period is the person’s last bonus period.
45UM Withdrawal of claim
(1)	A claimant for a pension bonus may withdraw a claim that has not been determined.
(2)	A claim that is withdrawn is taken not to have been made.
(3)	A withdrawal may be made orally or by document lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(3A)	A withdrawal made by lodging a document in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been so made on a day determined in accordance with that section.
(4)	If:
(a)	a person claims both a pension bonus and a designated pension; and
(b)	the claim for the designated pension is withdrawn;
the claim for pension bonus is taken to have been withdrawn.
(5)	If:
(a)	a person claims both a pension bonus and a designated pension; and
(b)	the claim for the designated pension is rejected as a direct or indirect result of the operation of Subdivision BA or BB of Division 11 of Part IIIB (dispositions of assets);
the claim for pension bonus is taken to have been withdrawn.
	Division 8 — Determination of claim
45UN Secretary to investigate claim and submit it to Commission
(1)	If a person makes a proper claim for a pension bonus, the Secretary must cause an investigation to be made into the matters to which the claim relates.
(2)	When the investigation is completed, the Secretary must cause the claim to be submitted to the Commission for consideration and determination.
(3)	When the claim is submitted to the Commission, it must be accompanied by:
(a)	any evidence supplied by the claimant in support of the claim; and
(b)	any documents or other evidence obtained by the Department in the course of the investigation that are relevant to the claim; and
(c)	any other documents or other evidence under the control of the Department that are relevant to the claim.
45UO Commission to determine claim
(1)	The Commission must, in accordance with this Act, determine a claim for pension bonus.
(2)	If a person claims both a pension bonus and a designated pension, the Commission must not determine the claim for pension bonus until the claim for the designated pension has been granted.
45UP Grant of claim
The Commission must determine that a claim for pension bonus is to be granted if the Commission is satisfied that the person is qualified for the pension bonus.
	Division 9 — Payment of pension bonus
45UQ Payment of pension bonus
If a claim for pension bonus is granted, the bonus is payable to the person concerned on:
(a)	the first pension payday after the grant; or
(b)	if the Commission considers that it is not practicable to pay the bonus on that payday—the next practicable day.
45UR Payment of bonus after death
(1)	This section sets out the only circumstances in which a pension bonus will be payable after the death of the person concerned.
Note:	A person’s surviving partner may be qualified for a pension bonus bereavement payment under Division 11A of this Part.
Later top up of pension bonus received before death
(1A)	If:
(a)	a person claims a pension bonus; and
(b)	the person dies; and
(c)	at the time of the person’s death, the person had received the bonus; and
(d)	after the person’s death, the Commission determines that the person’s bonus is to be increased under section 45UIB or 45UIC;
the increase is payable to the legal personal representative of the person.
Claim granted before death
(2)	If:
(a)	a person claims a pension bonus; and
(b)	the person dies; and
(c)	at the time of the person’s death, the claim had been granted, but the person had not received the bonus;
the bonus is payable to the legal personal representative of the person.
Claim not granted before death
(3)	If:
(a)	a person claims a pension bonus; and
(b)	the person dies; and
(c)	at the time of the person’s death, the claim had not been determined;
then:
(d)	the Commission must determine the claim after the person’s death as if the person had not died; and
(e)	if the claim is granted—the bonus is payable to the legal personal representative of the person.
(4)	If:
(a)	under paragraph (3)(d), the Commission is required to determine a claim for pension bonus after a person’s death; and
(b)	at the time of the person’s death, the person’s claim for a designated pension had not been determined;
then, in determining the claim for pension bonus, this Part is modified as set out in the following table:
Modifications
Item
This provision:
Is modified in this way:
1
Paragraph 45TC(1)(a)
The condition in this paragraph is taken to be satisfied if the person would have started to receive an age service pension if the person had not died.
2
Paragraph 45TC(2)(a)
The condition in this paragraph is taken to be satisfied if the person would have started to receive a partner service pension if the person had not died.
3
Paragraph 45TC(3)(a)
The condition in this paragraph is taken to be satisfied if the person would have started to receive income support supplement (other than income support supplement that is payable as a result of the operation of subclause 8(3) of Schedule 5) if the person had not died.
4
Division 6
A reference in the Division to a particular rate is taken to be a reference to the rate that would have been applicable to the person if the person had not died.
5
Division 6
A reference in the Division to the date of grant of the designated pension is taken to be a reference to the date that the designated pension would have been granted if the person had not died.
6
Subsection 45UK(2)
The subsection is to be disregarded.
7
Subsection 45UO(2)
The subsection is to be disregarded.
Top up of pension bonus also payable
(4A)	If a pension bonus is payable to the legal personal representative of a person under subsection (2) or (3), any increase in that bonus determined by the Commission under section 45UIB or 45UIC is also payable to that legal personal representative.
Liability of Commonwealth
(5)	If a pension bonus is paid under subsection (2) or (3), the Commonwealth has no further liability to any person in respect of that bonus.
	Division 10 — Protection of pension bonus
45US Pension bonus to be absolutely inalienable
(1)	A pension bonus is absolutely inalienable, whether by way of, or in consequence of, sale, assignment, charge, execution, bankruptcy or otherwise. This subsection has effect subject to subsections (2) and (3) and section 58J.
Deduction from bonus to pay tax debts that are unrelated to the bonus
(2)	The Commission may make a deduction from a pension bonus payable to a person if the person asks the Commission:
(a)	to make the deduction; and
(b)	to pay the amount to be deducted to the Commissioner of Taxation.
Note 1:	The Commission must make deductions from a person’s pension or pension bonus if requested by the Commissioner of Taxation—see section 58J.
Note 2:	Under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, pension bonus is exempt from income tax.
Deduction from bonus at recipient’s request
(3)	The Commission may make a deduction from a pension bonus payable to a person if the person consents under paragraph 205(2)(e) to the Commission making the deduction.
Note:	Paragraph 205(2)(e) enables the Commission to recover a debt from a person other than the debtor if the person is receiving a benefit under this Act.
	Division 11 — Preclusion periods
45UT Disposal preclusion period—dispositions before 1 July 2002
(1)	For the purposes of this Part, if:
(a)	either:
(i)	a person has, during a designated year of the person, disposed of an asset of the person; or
(ii)	the partner of a person has, during a designated year of the person, disposed of an asset of the partner; and
(b)	the amount of that disposition, or the sum of that amount and of the amounts (if any) of other dispositions of assets previously made by the person and/or the person’s partner during that designated year, exceeds $10,000;
the person is subject to a disposal preclusion period throughout the period of 5 years that starts on the day on which the disposition referred to in paragraph (a) took place.
Note:	Designated year is defined by subsection (3).
(1A)	This section applies only to dispositions of assets that took place before 1 July 2002.
(2)	For the purposes of this Part, if:
(a)	a person ceases to be a member of a couple (whether because of the death of the person’s partner or for any other reason); and
(b)	immediately before the cessation, the person was subject to a particular disposal preclusion period that arose wholly because the person’s partner disposed of a particular asset; and
(c)	if that disposition had been disregarded, the person would not have been subject to that disposal preclusion period;
then, despite subsection (1), that disposal preclusion period ends at the cessation.
(3)	For the purposes of this section, a designated year of a person is:
(a)	the 12-month period ending on the person’s special date of eligibility for a designated pension; and
(b)	each preceding 12-month period; and
(c)	each succeeding 12-month period.
(4)	This section applies to a disposal even if the disposal took place before the commencement of this section.
(5)	No period after 30 June 2002 is, or is a part of, a designated year of a person. If, apart from this subsection, a period beginning before 1 July 2002 and ending on or after that date would be a designated year of a person, the part of that period that ends immediately before that date is taken to be a designated year of the person.
45UTA Disposal preclusion period—dispositions on or after 1 July 2002
A person is subject to a disposal preclusion period throughout any period for which an amount is included in the value of the person’s assets under Subdivision BB of Division 11 of Part IIIB.
45UU Carer preclusion period
(1)	For the purposes of this Part, if a person receives:
(a)	a carer payment; or
(b)	a carer service pension; or
(c)	income support supplement that is payable as a result of the operation of subclause 8(3) of Schedule 5;
during a particular period, the person is subject to a carer preclusion period throughout that period.
(2)	This section applies to a carer payment, a carer service pension or income support supplement even if it was received before the commencement of this section.
	Division 11A — Pension bonus bereavement payment
45UUA Qualification for pension bonus bereavement payment
A person is qualified for a pension bonus bereavement payment if:
(a)	the person stopped being a member of a couple because the person’s partner died; and
(b)	immediately before the partner died, the partner was a registered member of the pension bonus scheme; and
(c)	the partner had not made a claim for a designated pension or pension bonus before the partner died.
45UUB Amount of pension bonus bereavement payment
(1)	The amount of a person’s pension bonus bereavement payment is worked out:
(a)	by working out the amount of pension bonus that would have been payable to the legal personal representative of the partner had the partner made claims for a designated pension and pension bonus just before the partner died (see subsections 45UR(3) and (4)); and
(b)	by disregarding, in working out the amount referred to in paragraph (a):
(i)	any PBBP employment income of the person (see section 45UUC); and
(ii)	any income of a kind specified in an instrument made under subsection (2).
(2)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, specify kinds of income for the purposes of subparagraph (1)(b)(ii).
45UUC Definition of PBBP employment income
(1)	PBBP employment income, of a person:
(a)	means ordinary income that is, or is taken to be, earned, derived or received by the person or the person’s partner from gainful work; and
(b)	includes (without limitation) any of the following that is, or is taken to be, earned, derived or received by the person or the person’s partner:
(i)	salary, wages, commissions and employment-related fringe benefits;
(ii)	leave payments;
(iii)	payments to the person or the person’s partner by a former employer of the person or person’s partner in relation to the termination of the person’s or partner’s employment.
(2)	For the purposes of subparagraph (1)(b)(ii), a leave payment:
(a)	includes a payment in respect of sick leave, personal leave, carer’s leave, annual leave, maternity leave, long service leave or special leave; and
(aa)	includes an instalment of parental leave pay; and
(b)	may be made as a lump sum payment, a series of regular payments or otherwise; and
(c)	is taken to be made to a person if it is made to another person:
(i)	at the direction of the person or of a court; or
(ii)	on behalf of the person; or
(iii)	for the benefit of the person; or
(iv)	if the person waives or assigns his or her right to the payment.
45UUD Need for a claim for pension bonus bereavement payment
A person who wants to be granted a pension bonus bereavement payment must make a proper claim for the payment.
45UUE Proper claim
(1)	To be a proper claim, a claim for pension bonus bereavement payment must be:
(a)	in writing; and
(b)	in accordance with a form approved by the Commission; and
(c)	lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T within the applicable lodgment period (see section 45UUF).
(2)	A claim for pension bonus bereavement payment lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
45UUF Lodgment period for claim
(1)	The lodgment period for a person’s claim for pension bonus bereavement payment is the period of 26 weeks beginning on the day of death of the partner in respect of whom the person is qualified for pension bonus bereavement payment.
(2)	However, the Commissioner may in special circumstances allow a person a longer period to make a claim than the period under subsection (1). If the Commissioner does so, the lodgment period for the person’s claim is the period allowed by the Commissioner.
45UUG Withdrawal of claim
(1)	A claimant for a pension bonus bereavement payment may withdraw a claim that has not been determined.
(2)	A claim that is withdrawn is taken not to have been made.
(3)	A withdrawal may be made orally or by document lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(4)	A withdrawal made by lodging a document in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined in accordance with that section.
45UUH Secretary to investigate claim and submit it to Commission
(1)	If a person makes a proper claim for a pension bonus bereavement payment, the Secretary must cause an investigation to be made into the matters to which the claim relates.
(2)	When the investigation is completed, the Secretary must cause the claim to be submitted to the Commission for consideration and determination.
(3)	When the claim is submitted to the Commission, it must be accompanied by:
(a)	any evidence supplied by the claimant in support of the claim; and
(b)	any documents or other evidence obtained by the Department in the course of the investigation that are relevant to the claim; and
(c)	any other documents or other evidence under the control of the Department that are relevant to the claim.
45UUI Commission to determine claim
The Commission must, in accordance with this Act, determine a claim for pension bonus bereavement payment.
45UUJ Grant of claim
The Commission must determine that a claim for pension bonus bereavement payment is to be granted if the Commission is satisfied that the person is qualified for the payment.
45UUK Payment of pension bonus bereavement payment
If a claim for pension bonus bereavement payment is granted, the payment is payable to the person concerned on:
(a)	the first pension payday after the grant; or
(b)	if the Commission considers that it is not practicable to pay the payment on that payday—the next practicable day.
45UUL Payment of pension bonus bereavement payment after death
(1)	This section sets out the only circumstances in which pension bonus bereavement payment will be payable after the death of the person concerned.
(2)	If:
(a)	a person claims a pension bonus bereavement payment; and
(b)	the person dies; and
(c)	at the time of the person’s death, the claim had been granted, but the person had not received the payment;
the payment is payable to the legal personal representative of the person.
(3)	If:
(a)	a person claims a pension bonus bereavement payment; and
(b)	the person dies; and
(c)	at the time of the person’s death, the claim had not been determined;
then:
(d)	the Commission must determine the claim after the person’s death as if the person had not died; and
(e)	if the claim is granted—the payment is payable to the legal personal representative of the person.
(4)	If a pension bonus bereavement payment is paid under subsection (2) or (3), the Commonwealth has no further liability to any person in respect of that bonus.
	Division 12 — Modification of this Part in relation to certain persons previously qualified for age pension under social security law
45UV Persons to whom this Division applies
This Division applies to a person:
(a)	who is a war widow/war widower—pensioner; and
(b)	who registers under this Act as a member of the pension bonus scheme in respect of income support supplement; and
(c)	who either:
(i)	was registered as a member of the pension bonus scheme under Part 2.2A of the Social Security Act 1991 (the SSA pension bonus scheme) with effect from a date before becoming a war widow/war widower—pensioner; or
(ii)	although not so registered, could, in the opinion of the Commission, have been so registered before becoming a war widow/war widower—pensioner had the person applied for that registration; and
(d)	who has not received age pension under the social security law; and
(e)	who has not claimed pension bonus under that law before becoming a war widow/war widower—pensioner.
45UW Commission may request the provision of information
The Commission may, by notice in writing, request a person to whom this Division applies to provide to the Commission, within a period specified in the notice, any information that it considers would have been relevant:
(a)	for the purpose of determining whether the person:
(i)	was registered as a member of the SSA pension bonus scheme; or
(ii)	in the opinion of the Commission, could have been so registered before becoming a war widow/war widower—pensioner had the person applied for that registration; and
(b)	for the purpose of working out the bonus periods that the person would have accrued under the social security law:
(i)	if the person was registered as a member of the SSA pension bonus scheme—if the person had made a claim for pension bonus under that law immediately before becoming a war widow/war widower—pensioner; and
(ii)	if the person was not so registered but, in the opinion of the Commission, could have been so registered before becoming a war widow/war widower—pensioner had the person applied for that registration—if the person had been so registered from the earliest day that the person could have been so registered and, immediately before becoming a war widow/war widower—pensioner, had made a claim for pension bonus under that law.
45UX Commission may determine whether periods occurring before becoming a war widow/war widower—pensioner are bonus periods under the social security law
(1)	If a person:
(a)	is a person to whom this Division applies; and
(b)	was registered as a member of the SSA pension bonus scheme;
the Commission may, subject to subsection (3), determine, having regard to information supplied to it under this Act or the social security law, that if:
(c)	the person had made a claim for pension bonus under that law immediately before becoming a war widow/war widower—pensioner; and
(d)	the claim had been made in respect of a period the whole or part of which the Commission determines would have been a period of accruing membership of that scheme;
that period, or that part of that period, would have accrued to the person as a bonus period under that law.
(2)	If a person:
(a)	is a person to whom this Division applies; and
(b)	was not registered as a member of the SSA pension bonus scheme but, in the opinion of the Commission, could have been so registered before becoming a war widow/war widower—pensioner had the person applied for that registration;
the Commission may, subject to subsection (3), determine, having regard to information supplied to it under this Act or the social security law, that if:
(c)	the person had been so registered from the earliest possible date that the person could have been so registered; and
(d)	the person had made a claim for pension bonus under that law immediately before becoming a war widow/war widower—pensioner; and
(e)	the claim had been made in respect of a period the whole or part of which the Commission determines would have been a period of accruing membership of that scheme;
that period, or that part of that period, would have accrued to the person as a bonus period under that law.
(3)	If the Commission determines, in respect of a person to whom this Division applies, that:
(a)	a period would have been:
(i)	if the person was registered as a member of the SSA pension bonus scheme—a part-year period of accruing membership of that scheme; or
(ii)	if the person was not, but, in the opinion of the Commission, could have been so registered before becoming a war widow/war widower—pensioner had the person applied for that registration and had the person been so registered from the earliest possible date that the person could have been so registered—such a part-year period of accruing membership of that scheme; and
(b)	the period was not immediately preceded by another period that would have accrued to that person as a bonus period under the social security law;
the Commission may, despite the terms of subsection 92T(3) of the Social Security Act 1991, treat that part-year period as a bonus period under the social security law if, had the person made a claim for pension bonus under that law immediately before becoming a war widow/war widower—pensioner, the person would have passed the work test under that law in respect of that period.
45UY Modification of provisions of this Part in respect of persons to whom this Division applies
(1)	For the purposes of working out the amount of the pension bonus payable under this Part to a person to whom this Division applies and subject to subsection (2), if the Commission determines, under section 45UX, that a period would have accrued to the person as a bonus period under the social security law, then:
(a)	that bonus period is to be treated as if it were a bonus period that had accrued to the person under this Act; and
(b)	that bonus period, or if more than one, the last such bonus period, is to be treated as if it were continuous with the first bonus period (if any) that accrues to the person under this Act after the person becomes a war widow/war widower—pensioner.
(2)	Subsection (1) applies in relation to a part-year period that the Commission determines is a bonus period that would have accrued, under the social security law, to a person to whom this Division applies only if:
(a)	that bonus period is immediately preceded by a period that the Commission determines would have been another bonus period accruing to the person under that law; or
(b)	that bonus period, when aggregated with any bonus period or bonus periods accruing to the person under this Act after the person becomes a war widow/war widower—pensioner, would amount to at least one year.
(3)	If:
(a)	a person to whom this Division applies has a part-year period of accruing membership of the pension bonus scheme under this Act; and
(b)	the part-year period does not begin immediately after a bonus period accruing to that person under this Act;
then, for the purposes of applying subsection 45TR(3) of this Act in determining whether that part-year period is a bonus period under this Act, the Commission may treat that part-year period as if it were immediately preceded by a bonus period accruing to that person under this Act.
Part IIIB—Provisions applying to service pension, income support supplement and veteran payment
	Division 1 — Ordinary income concept
46 General meaning of ordinary income
A reference in this Act to a person’s ordinary income for a period is a reference to the person’s gross ordinary income from all sources for the period calculated without any reduction, other than a reduction under Division 2.
Note 1:	For ordinary income see subsection 5H(1).
Note 2:	For other provisions affecting the amount of a person’s ordinary income see section 46AA (work bonus), sections 46B and 46C (business income), Division 3 (income from financial assets (including income streams (short term) and certain income streams (long term)) and Division 4 (income from income streams not covered by Division 3).
46A Certain amounts taken to be received over 12 months
If a person receives, whether before or after the commencement of this section, an amount that:
(a)	is not income within the meaning of Division 3 or 4 of this Part; and
(b)	is not:
(i)	income in the form of periodic payments; or
(ii)	ordinary income from remunerative work undertaken by the person; or
(iii)	an exempt lump sum;
the person is, for the purposes of this Act, taken to receive one fifty-second of that amount as ordinary income of the person during each week in the 12 months commencing on the day on which the person becomes entitled to receive that amount.
	Division 1A — Work bonus
46AA Income concession
(1)	This section applies to a person if:
(a)	the person’s rate of service pension or income support supplement is calculated in accordance with the Rate Calculator; and
(b)	the person has reached qualifying age.
Note:	For qualifying age see section 5Q.
Work bonus income greater than or equal to income concession amount
(2)	If the person’s work bonus income for a pension period is greater than or equal to the income concession amount for that period, then, for the purposes of Module E of that Rate Calculator, the amount of the person’s work bonus income for that period is reduced by an amount equal to the income concession amount.
Note:	For work bonus income, see subsection (4BA).
Example 1:	David has $2,300 of work bonus income in a pension period. David’s rate of service pension or income support supplement for that period is greater than nil.
David’s work bonus income for that period is reduced by $300, leaving David $2,000 of work bonus income for that period.
Example 2:	Amy has $1,000 of work bonus income in a pension period. Amy’s rate of service pension or income support supplement for that period is greater than nil.
Amy’s work bonus income for that period is reduced by $300, leaving Amy $700 of work bonus income for that period.
(3)	If the person’s unused concession balance (see section 46AC) is greater than or equal to the amount (the current amount) of the person’s work bonus income that remains after applying subsection (2) of this section in relation to a pension period:
(a)	for the purposes of Module E of that Rate Calculator, the person’s work bonus income for that period is further reduced to nil; and
(b)	if the person’s rate of service pension or income support supplement for that period is greater than nil—the person’s unused concession balance is reduced by an amount equal to the current amount.
Example 1:	To continue example 1 in subsection (2), assume David’s unused concession balance is $2,000. The current amount is $2,000.
David’s work bonus income for that period is further reduced to nil.
David’s unused concession balance is now nil.
Example 2:	To continue example 2 in subsection (2), assume Amy’s unused concession balance is $1,600. The current amount is $700.
Amy’s work bonus income for that period is further reduced to nil.
Amy’s unused concession balance is now $900.
(4)	If the person’s unused concession balance (see section 46AC) is greater than nil but less than the amount of the person’s work bonus income that remains after applying subsection (2) of this section in relation to a pension period:
(a)	for the purposes of Module E of that Rate Calculator, the person’s work bonus income for that period is further reduced by an amount equal to that unused concession balance; and
(b)	if the person’s rate of service pension or income support supplement for that period is greater than nil—the person’s unused concession balance is reduced to nil.
Example:	Bill has $1,300 of work bonus income in a pension period. Bill’s rate of service pension or income support supplement for that period is greater than nil.
Under subsection (2), Bill’s work bonus income for that period is reduced by $300, leaving Bill $1,000 of work bonus income for that period.
Assume Bill’s unused concession balance is $800.
Under subsection (4), Bill’s work bonus income for that period is further reduced by $800 leaving Bill $200 of work bonus income for that period.
Bill’s unused concession balance is now nil.
Work bonus income less than income concession amount
(4A)	If the person has work bonus income for a pension period but that income is less than the income concession amount for that period:
(a)	for the purposes of Module E of that Rate Calculator, the person’s work bonus income for that period is reduced to nil; and
(b)	if the person’s rate of service pension or income support supplement for that period is greater than nil—the person’s unused concession balance (see section 46AC) is increased, subject to subsection 46AC(2), by an amount equal to the difference between that income concession amount and that work bonus income (before it was reduced).
Note:	For work bonus income, see subsection (4BA).
Example:	Emma has $100 of work bonus income in a pension period. Emma’s rate of service pension or income support supplement for that period is greater than nil.
Emma’s work bonus income for that period is reduced to nil.
Emma’s unused concession balance is increased by $200.
No work bonus income
(4B)	If:
(a)	the person has no work bonus income for a pension period; and
(b)	the person’s rate of service pension or income support supplement for that period is greater than nil;
the person’s unused concession balance (see section 46AC) is increased, subject to subsection 46AC(2), by an amount equal to the income concession amount for that period.
Note:	For work bonus income, see subsection (4BA).
Definitions
(4BA)	For the purposes of this section, a person’s work bonus income for a pension period is the sum of the following:
(a)	the person’s employment income received in that period;
(b)	the person’s gainful work income for that period.
Note:	For employment income, see section 46AB.
(4BB)	For the purposes of this section, a person’s gainful work income for a pension period is the amount worked out using the following formula:
where:
annual amount means the annual amount of ordinary income of the person that is earned, derived or received by the person from gainful work (within the meaning of section 46ABA) undertaken by the person, being the annual amount as last determined by the Commission.
(4C)	The income concession amount for a pension period is $300.
Interpretation
(5)	If the person is a member of a couple, apply this section in relation to the person, and to the person’s partner, before applying Point SCH6-E3 of Schedule 6.
(5A)	If:
(a)	the person is a member of a couple; and
(b)	the person’s partner’s work bonus income (within the meaning of section 1073AA of the Social Security Act 1991) is reduced by one or more amounts (each of which is a reduction amount) under section 1073AA of that Act;
then, in applying point SCH6-E3 of Schedule 6, the ordinary/adjusted income of the person’s partner is to be reduced by an amount equal to the total of the reduction amounts.
(6)	This section is subject to section 46AD (about no double income reductions under this section and section 115G).
46AB Meaning of employment income
(1)	For the purposes of section 46AA, employment income, in relation to a person, is ordinary income of the person:
(a)	that is for remunerative work of the person as an employee in an employer/employee relationship; and
(b)	that includes, but is not limited to:
(i)	salary, wages, commissions and employment-related fringe benefits; and
(ii)	if the person is engaged on a continuing basis in that employer/employee relationship—a leave payment to the person;
but does not include:
(c)	a superannuation payment to the person; or
(d)	a payment of compensation, or a payment to the person under an insurance scheme, in relation to the person’s inability to earn, derive or receive income from that remunerative work; or
(e)	if the person is not engaged on a continuing basis in that employer/employee relationship—a leave payment to the person; or
(f)	a payment to the person by a former employer of the person in relation to the termination of the person’s employment; or
(g)	a comparable foreign pension; or
(h)	an instalment of parental leave pay.
(2)	For the purposes of subsection (1), a leave payment:
(a)	includes a payment in respect of personal/carer’s leave, annual leave, maternity leave or long service leave; and
(b)	may be made as a lump sum payment, a payment that is one of a series of regular payments or otherwise; and
(c)	is taken to be made to a person if it is made to another person:
(i)	at the direction of the person or of a court; or
(ii)	on behalf of the person; or
(iii)	for the benefit of the person; or
(iv)	if the person waives or assigns his or her right to the payment.
46ABA Meaning of gainful work
(1)	For the purposes of this Division, gainful work is work for financial gain or reward (other than as an employee), where:
(a)	the work involves personal exertion on the part of the person concerned; and
(b)	the work is carried on within or outside Australia.
Disregard managing or administering family financial investments and real property
(2)	Work undertaken by a person is taken not to be gainful work for the purposes of this Division to the extent to which the work consists of the management or administration of any financial investment, or any real property, in which any of the following has a legal or equitable interest:
(a)	a member of the person’s family group;
(b)	a company that is a family company in relation to the person;
(c)	the trustee or trustees of a trust that is a family trust in relation to the person.
Note:	For financial investment, see subsection 5J(1).
Disregard domestic duties
(3)	Work undertaken by a person is taken not to be gainful work for the purposes of this Division if the work consists of carrying out:
(a)	domestic tasks; or
(b)	household maintenance tasks; or
(c)	gardening tasks; or
(d)	similar tasks;
in relation to:
(e)	the person’s place of residence; or
(f)	if the person has 2 or more places of residence—any of those places of residence.
Definitions
(4)	For the purposes of this section, a place of residence includes:
(a)	if the place is a dwelling-house—any land or building that is adjacent to the dwelling-house and that is used primarily for private or domestic purposes in association with that dwelling-house; or
(b)	if the place is a flat or home unit—a garage or storeroom that is used for private or domestic purposes in association with the flat or home unit.
(5)	In this section:
family company, in relation to a person, means a company where:
(a)	the company is, or its directors are, accustomed or under an obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of any or all of the members of the person’s family group; or
(b)	any or all of the members of the person’s family group are in a position to cast, or control the casting of, more than 50% of the maximum number of votes that may be cast at a general meeting of the company; or
(c)	both:
(i)	the company has one or more shareholders; and
(ii)	each shareholder is a member of the person’s family group.
family group, in relation to a person, means the group consisting of the person and the family members of the person. If the person has no family members, the person is taken to be a family group in the person’s own right.
Note:	For family member, see subsection 5L(1).
family trust, in relation to a person, means a trust where a member of the person’s family group benefits, or is capable (whether by the exercise of a power of appointment or otherwise) of benefiting, under the trust.
46AC Unused concession balance
Existing unused concession balances before 1 January 2024
(1)	If, immediately before 1 January 2024, a person has an unused concession balance (including a balance of nil or a retained balance under subsection (3)), the person retains that unused concession balance on 1 January 2024.
Initial unused concession balance after 1 January 2024
(1A)	A person has an unused concession balance of $4,000 on the first day that is on or after 1 January 2024 and is a day on which section 46AA applies to the person.
(1B)	Subsection (1A) does not apply on a day if the person has an unused concession balance (including a balance of nil or a retained balance under subsection (3)) immediately before that day.
Increase of unused concession balance in specified circumstances
(1C)	If:
(a)	a person ceases to receive service pension or income support supplement; and
(b)	the person retains an unused concession balance (the old balance) under subsection (3) of less than $4,000; and
(c)	neither this subsection nor subsection (1A) has previously applied in relation to the person within the most recent 2 year period that starts on or after 1 July 2024;
then, on the first day that is on or after 1 July 2024 and is a day on which section 46AA applies to the person again, the person’s unused concession balance is increased by an amount equal to the difference between the old balance and $4,000.
(1D)	Subsection (1C) does not apply if section 46AA applies to the person again following the person’s service pension or income support supplement being suspended.
Maximum unused concession balance
(2)	If, apart from this subsection, the person’s unused concession balance would exceed $11,800, that balance is instead taken to be $11,800.
Example:	John has an unused concession balance of $11,700. John has $100 of work bonus income in a pension period.
Instead of John’s unused concession balance increasing to $11,900 under subsection 46AA(4A), John’s unused concession balance increases to $11,800.
Effect of ceasing to receive service pension or income support supplement
(3)	If the person ceases to receive service pension or income support supplement, the person retains the person’s unused concession balance immediately before that cessation.
Note:	If section 46AA applies to the person again, the person’s unused concession balance will be that retained balance.
46AD No double income reductions under sections 46AA and 115G
Scope
(1)	This section applies if, apart from this section:
(a)	an amount (the initial amount) would be an excluded amount under subsection 115G(1) or (2) in respect of a veteran and a pension period; and
(b)	the veteran’s work bonus income (within the meaning of section 46AA) would be reduced by one or more amounts (each of which is a reduction amount) under section 46AA in relation to that period.
Income reduction under section 46AA
(2)	If the total of the reduction amounts is more than the initial amount:
(a)	subsection 115G(1) or (2), as the case may be, does not apply in relation to that veteran and that period; and
(b)	subsections 46AA(2) to (4A) do apply in relation to that veteran and that period.
Income reduction under section 115G
(3)	If the total of the reduction amounts is less than or equal to the initial amount:
(a)	subsections 46AA(2) to (4A) do not apply to reduce the veteran’s work bonus income in relation to that period, but they do apply for the purposes of working out any adjustment to the veteran’s unused concession balance in relation to that period (as if those reductions had occurred); and
(b)	subsection 115G(1) or (2), as the case may be, does apply in relation to that veteran and that period.
Note:	Subsections 115G(1) and (2) are about excluding income amounts for certain veterans.
Example:	Jim has $100 of work bonus income in a pension period. Jim’s rate of service pension or income support supplement for that period is greater than nil. Assume Jim also has an amount of $100 worked out under subsection 115G(1) in relation to that period.
There is no reduction in Jim’s work bonus income under section 46AA for that period, but $100 is excluded under subsection 115G(1).
Under subsection 46AA(4A), Jim’s unused concession balance is increased by $200.
	Division 2 — Business income
46B Ordinary income from a business—treatment of trading stock
(1)	If:
(a)	a person carries on a business; and
(b)	the value of all the trading stock on hand at the end of a tax year is greater than the value of all the trading stock on hand at the beginning of that tax year;
the person’s ordinary income for that tax year in the form of profits from the business is to include the amount of the difference in values.
(2)	If:
(a)	a person carries on a business; and
(b)	the value of all the trading stock on hand at the end of a tax year is less than the value of all the trading stock on hand at the beginning of that tax year;
the person’s ordinary income for that tax year in the form of profits from the business is to be reduced by the amount of the difference in values.
46C Permissible reductions of business income
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), if a person carries on a business, the person’s ordinary income from the business is to be reduced by:
(a)	losses and outgoings that relate to the business and are allowable deductions for the purposes of section 8-1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; and
(ba)	amounts that relate to the business and can be deducted for the decline in value of depreciating assets under Subdivision 40-B of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; and
(c)	amounts that relate to the business and are allowable deductions under section 290-60 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
(2)	If, under Division 3, a person is taken to receive ordinary income on a financial investment, that ordinary income is not to be reduced by the amount of any expenses incurred by the person because of that investment.
Note:	For financial investment see subsection 5J(1).
(3)	If a person’s ordinary income for a period includes rental income from a property that is not business income, the person’s ordinary income from that property is to be reduced by losses and outgoings that relate to the property and are allowable deductions for the purposes of section 8-1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 for that period.
(4)	If the amount of the allowable deductions relating to a property for a period under section 8-1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 exceeds the amount of the rental income from that property for that period, the amount of the ordinary income from the property for that period is taken to be nil.
	Division 3 — Income from financial assets (including income streams (short term) and certain income streams (long term))
46D Deemed income from financial assets—persons other than members of couples
(1)	This section applies to a person who is not a member of a couple.
(2)	A person who has financial assets is taken, for the purposes of this Act, to receive ordinary income on those assets in accordance with this section.
(3)	This is how to work out the ordinary income that the person is taken to receive:
Method statement
Step 1.	Calculate the total value of the person’s financial assets and compare it with the person’s deeming threshold.
Note 1:	For financial assets see subsection 5J(1).
Note 2:	For deeming threshold see subsection 46H(1).
Step 2.	This step applies only if the total value of the person’s financial assets is equal to or less than the person’s deeming threshold. Multiply the total value of the financial assets by the below threshold rate. The result represents the ordinary income that the person is taken to receive per year on his or her financial assets.
Note:	For below threshold rate see subsection 46J(1).
Step 3.	This step applies only if the total value of the person’s financial assets is higher than the person’s deeming threshold. Work out the person’s deemed income as follows:
(a)	multiply the deeming threshold by the below threshold rate;
(b)	subtract the deeming threshold from the total value of the person’s financial assets;
(c)	multiply the remainder by the above threshold rate;
Note:	For above threshold rate see subsection 46J(2).
(d)	add up the amounts worked out at paragraph (a) and (c): the result represents the ordinary income that the person is taken to receive per year on his or her financial assets.
Example:	How deemed income of a person who is not a member of a couple is worked out per year for the person’s financial assets other than financial assets described in subsection (3A) (using rates and deeming thresholds in force on 1 July 2022).
Elaine, a single pensioner, has $164,000 worth of financial assets, made up of $150,000 in proceeds from the sale of Elaine’s principal home and $14,000 of other financial assets. Elaine intends to apply $100,000 of the proceeds of sale to purchase another residence that is to be Elaine’s principal home. The below threshold rate is 0.25%. The above threshold rate is 2.25%.
The total value of Elaine’s financial assets ($64,000), disregarding part of the proceeds of sale ($100,000—see subsection (3A)), is higher than Elaine’s deeming threshold ($56,400—see subsection 46H(1)). So, the deeming threshold is multiplied by the below threshold rate (0.25%):
Elaine’s deeming threshold of $56,400 is subtracted from the total value of Elaine’s financial assets ($64,000), disregarding part of the proceeds of sale ($100,000—see subsection (3A)). The remainder is $7,600.
The amount of $7,600 is multiplied by the above threshold rate (2.25%):
The ordinary income that Elaine is taken to receive on Elaine’s financial assets, other than financial assets described in subsection (3A), is $312 per year ($141 plus $171).
(3A)	However, if subsection 52(2) applies in relation to the person and:
(a)	the person has financial assets that are proceeds:
(i)	from the sale of the person’s principal home; and
(ii)	described in paragraph 52(2)(a) or (c); and
(b)	the earlier of the times mentioned in that paragraph has not occurred for the person and the proceeds;
then:
(c)	those financial assets are to be disregarded for the purposes of working out the ordinary income the person is taken to receive under subsection (3); and
(d)	the ordinary income the person is taken to receive per year on those financial assets is the amount worked out by multiplying the value of those financial assets by the below threshold rate.
Example:	To continue the example in subsection (3), Elaine’s financial assets ($100,000) described in this subsection are multiplied by the below threshold rate (0.25%):
The ordinary income that Elaine is taken to receive on Elaine’s financial assets described in this subsection is $250 per year.
(4)	The person is taken, for the purposes of this Act, to receive one fifty-second of the sum of the amount calculated under subsection (3) and the amount (if any) calculated under paragraph (3A)(d) as ordinary income of the person during each week.
46E Deemed income from financial assets—members of a couple
(1)	This section applies to the members of a couple.
(2)	If one or both of the members of a couple have financial assets, the members of the couple are taken, for the purposes of this Act, to receive together ordinary income on those assets in accordance with this section.
(3)	This is how to work out the ordinary income that the couple is taken to receive:
Method statement
Step 1.	Calculate the total value of the couple’s financial assets and compare it with the couple’s deeming threshold.
Note 1:	For financial assets see subsection 5J(1).
Note 2:	For deeming threshold see subsection 46H(2).
Step 2.	This step applies only if the total value of the couple’s financial assets is equal to or less than the couple’s deeming threshold. Multiply the total value of the financial assets by the below threshold rate. The result represents the ordinary income that the couple is taken to receive per year on their financial assets.
Note:	For below threshold rate see subsection 46J(1).
Step 3.	This step applies only if the total value of the couple’s financial assets is higher than the couple’s deeming threshold. Work out the couple’s deemed income as follows:
(a)	multiply the deeming threshold by the below threshold rate;
(b)	subtract the deeming threshold from the total value of the couple’s assets;
(c)	multiply the remainder by the above threshold rate;
Note:	For above threshold rate see subsection 46J(2).
(d)	add up the amounts worked out at paragraph (a) and (c): the result represents the ordinary income that the couple is taken to receive per year on their financial assets.
Example:	How deemed income of a couple is worked out per year for the couple’s financial assets other than financial assets described in subsection (3A) (using rates and deeming thresholds in force on 1 July 2022).
Maree and Peter, a couple, have $622,000 worth of financial assets, made up of $500,000 in proceeds from the sale of the couple’s principal home and $122,000 of other financial assets. Maree and Peter intend to apply the whole of the proceeds of sale to build another residence that is to be the couple’s principal home. The below threshold rate is 0.25%. The above threshold rate is 2.25%.
The total value of the couple’s financial assets ($122,000), disregarding the whole of the proceeds of sale ($500,000—see subsection (3A)), is higher than the couple’s deeming threshold ($93,600—see subsection 46H(2)). So, the deeming threshold is multiplied by the below threshold rate (0.25%):
The couple’s deeming threshold of $93,600 is subtracted from the total value of the couple’s financial assets ($122,000), disregarding the whole of the proceeds of sale ($500,000—see subsection (3A)). The remainder is $28,400.
The amount of $28,400 is multiplied by the above threshold rate (2.25%):
The ordinary income that the couple is taken to receive on the couple’s financial assets, other than financial assets described in subsection (3A), is $873 per year ($234 plus $639).
(3A)	However, if subsection 52(2) applies in relation to a member of the couple and:
(a)	the couple have financial assets that are proceeds:
(i)	from the sale of the principal home of a member of the couple; and
(ii)	described in paragraph 52(2)(a) or (c); and
(b)	the earlier of the times mentioned in that paragraph has not occurred for the member of the couple and the proceeds;
then:
(c)	those financial assets are to be disregarded for the purposes of working out the ordinary income the couple is taken to receive under subsection (3); and
(d)	the ordinary income the couple is taken to receive per year on those financial assets is the amount worked out by multiplying the value of those financial assets by the below threshold rate.
Example:	To continue the example in subsection (3), Maree and Peter’s financial assets ($500,000) described in this subsection are multiplied by the below threshold rate (0.25%):
The ordinary income that the couple is taken to receive on the couple’s financial assets described in this subsection is $1,250 per year.
(4)	Each member of the couple is taken, for the purposes of this Act, to receive, as ordinary income during each week, an amount calculated according to the formula:
46H Deeming threshold
(1)	The deeming threshold for a person who is not a member of a couple is $30,000.
(2)	The deeming threshold for a couple is $50,000.
Note:	The amounts fixed by subsections (1) and (2) are indexed every 1 July. See sections 59A to 59C.
46J Below threshold rate, above threshold rate
(1)	For the purposes of this Division, the below threshold rate is the rate that is the below threshold rate for the purposes of Division 1B of Part 3.10 of the Social Security Act.
(2)	For the purposes of this Division, the above threshold rate is the rate that is the above threshold rate for the purposes of Division 1B of Part 3.10 of the Social Security Act.
46K Actual return on financial assets not treated as ordinary income
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), any return on a financial asset that a person actually earns, derives or receives is taken, for the purposes of this Act, not to be ordinary income of the person.
(2)	If, because of:
(a)	a determination under subsection 46L(1); or
(b)	the operation of subsection 46L(1A);
a financial investment is not to be regarded as a financial asset for the purposes of section 46D or 46E, subsection (1) of this section does not apply to any return on the investment that the person actually earns, derives or receives.
46L Certain money and financial investments not taken into account
(1)	The Minister may determine that:
(a)	specified financial investments; or
(b)	a specified class of financial investments;
are not to be regarded as financial assets for the purposes of section 46D or 46E.
(1A)	If the Commission makes a determination under section 52Y in relation to a person, any unrealisable asset of the person or the person’s partner is not regarded as a financial asset for the purposes of section 46D or 46E.
(3)	A determination under subsection (1) must be in writing.
(4)	A determination under subsection (1) takes effect on the day on which it is made or on such other day (whether earlier or later) as is specified in the determination.
46M Valuation and revaluation of certain financial investments
The total value of a person’s listed securities and managed investments (being listed securities and managed investments that fluctuate depending on the market) (the relevant investments) is determined in accordance with the following:
(a)	an initial total valuation is to be given to the relevant investments on 1 July 1996, or when a new claim is determined, by the method set out in departmental guidelines;
(b)	that total valuation continues in effect until the relevant investments are revalued by the method set out in departmental guidelines, and that revaluation must occur:
(i)	on 20 March in each calendar year after 1996; and
(ii)	on 20 September in each calendar year after 1996; and
(iii)	when the person requests a revaluation of one or more of the person’s listed securities and managed investments; and
(iv)	following an event that affects the relevant investments and is the subject of a recipient notification notice.
	Division 4 — Income from income streams not covered by Division 3
Subdivision B—Income streams that are not family law affected income streams
46SA Scope of Subdivision
(1)	This Subdivision applies to income streams that are not family law affected income streams.
(2)	However, this Subdivision does not apply to:
(a)	an asset-tested income stream (long term) that is an account-based pension within the meaning of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations 1994; or
(b)	an asset-tested income stream (long term) that is an annuity (within the meaning of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993) provided under a contract that meets the requirements determined in an instrument under subsection 5J(1G) of this Act.
Note 1:	For treatment of an income stream mentioned in subsection (2), see Division 3.
Note 2:	Part 2 of Schedule 11 to the Social Services and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2014 preserves the rules in this Subdivision for a certain kind of income stream that was being provided to a person immediately before 1 January 2015 where the person was receiving an income support payment immediately before that day provided that, since that day, that income stream has been provided to the person and the person has been continuously receiving an income support payment.
46T Income from asset-test exempt income stream
(1)	For the purpose of working out the annual rate of ordinary income of a person from an asset-test exempt income stream to which this Subdivision applies, the person is taken to receive from that income stream each year the amount worked out under section 46U, 46V or 46VAA.
Note:	For asset-test exempt income stream see sections 5JA, 5JB, 5JBA and 5JBB.
(2)	Sections 46U and 46V do not apply if:
(a)	the income stream is covered by subsection 5JBA(1); or
(b)	on the income stream’s commencement day, there was a reasonable likelihood that the income stream would have been covered by subsection 5JBA(1), but the income stream is no longer covered by that subsection.
Note:	See section 46VA.
46U Income—income stream not a defined benefit income stream or a military invalidity pension income stream
If the asset-test exempt income stream to which this Subdivision applies is not a defined benefit income stream or a military invalidity pension income stream, the amount that the person is taken to receive from the income stream each year is worked out as follows:
where:
annual payment means the amount payable to the person for the year under the income stream.
purchase price has the meaning given by subsection 5J(1).
relevant number has the meaning given by subsection 5J(1).
Example:	Mark is 65 years old and single. He purchases an annuity for $100,000 with a term based on life expectancy (i.e. 15.41 years, which he chooses to round up to 16 years). The annuity has all the revised characteristics listed in the legislation. His annual payment from the annuity totals $9,895. Mark’s assessable income from this income stream is:
46V Income—income stream is a defined benefit income stream
If the asset-test exempt income stream to which this Subdivision applies is a defined benefit income stream, the amount that the person is taken to receive from the income stream each year is worked out as follows:
where:
annual payment means the amount payable to the person for the year under the income stream.
deductible amount has the meaning given by subsection 5J(1).
46VAA Income—income stream is a military invalidity pension income stream
If the asset-test exempt income stream to which this Subdivision applies is a military invalidity pension income stream, the amount that the person is taken to receive from the income stream each year is worked out as follows:
where:
annual payment means the amount payable to the person for the year under the income stream.
special reduction amount means the sum of the amounts that would be the tax free components, worked out under Subdivision 307-C of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, of the payments received from the military invalidity pension income stream during the year, if it were assumed that the military invalidity pension income stream is a superannuation income stream within the meaning of that Act.
46VA Income from market-linked asset-test exempt income stream
(1)	If either of the following conditions is satisfied in relation to the asset-test exempt income stream to which this Subdivision applies:
(a)	the income stream is covered by subsection 5JBA(1);
(b)	on the income stream’s commencement day, there was a reasonable likelihood that the income stream would have been covered by subsection 5JBA(1), but the income stream is no longer covered by that subsection;
the annual rate of ordinary income of a person from the income stream is worked out under whichever of subsections (2) and (3) is applicable.
Recipient makes election
(2)	If:
(a)	the person has elected that a particular amount is to be the payment, or the total of the payments, to be made under the income stream in respect of a period (the payment period) that:
(i)	consists of the whole or a part of a particular financial year; and
(ii)	begins on or after the income stream’s commencement day; and
(b)	the election is in force on a particular day in the payment period;
the annual rate of ordinary income of the person from the income stream on that day is worked out using the following formula:
where:
purchase price has the meaning given by subsection 5J(1).
relevant number has the meaning given by subsection 5J(1).
total payments means the payment, or the total of the payments, to be made under the income stream in respect of the payment period.
Recipient does not make election
(3)	If the person has not elected that a particular amount is to be the payment, or the total of the payments, to be made under the income stream in respect of a period (the payment period) that:
(a)	consists of the whole or a part of a particular financial year; and
(b)	begins on or after the income stream’s commencement day;
the annual rate of ordinary income of the person from the income stream on each day during the payment period is worked out using the following formula:
where:
default amount means 100% of the amount worked out for the financial year using the formula in subsection 5JBA(5) (for pro-rating, see subsection (4)).
purchase price has the meaning given by subsection 5J(1).
relevant number has the meaning given by subsection 5J(1).
(4)	If the income stream’s commencement day is not a 1 July, the default amount (within the meaning of subsection (3)) for the financial year starting on the preceding 1 July must be reduced on a pro-rata basis by reference to the number of days in the financial year that are on and after the commencement day.
Exception—income stream’s commencement day happens in June
(5)	If:
(a)	the income stream’s commencement day happens in June; and
(b)	no payment is made under the income stream for the financial year in which the commencement day happens;
subsections (2), (3) and (4) do not apply in working out the annual rate of ordinary income of the person from the income stream on a day in that financial year.
46W Income from asset-tested income stream (long term)
(1)	For the purpose of working out the annual rate of ordinary income of a person from an asset-tested income stream (long term) to which this Subdivision applies, the person is taken to receive from that income stream each year the amount worked out under section 46X or 46Y.
(2)	Sections 46X and 46Y do not apply to an income stream if section 46YA applies to the income stream.
46X Income—asset-tested income stream (long term) that is not a defined benefit income stream
If the asset-tested income stream (long term) to which this Subdivision applies is not a defined benefit income stream, the amount that the person is taken to receive from the income stream each year is worked out as follows:
where:
annual payment means the amount payable to the person for the year under the income stream.
purchase price has the meaning given by subsection 5J(1).
relevant number has the meaning given by subsection 5J(1).
residual capital value has the meaning given by subsection 5J(1).
Note:	For treatment of asset-tested income streams (short term) see Division 3 of Part IIIB.
Example:	Sally is 65 years old and single. She purchases a 10 year annuity for $150,000, with a residual capital value of $20,000. Her total annual annuity payment is $18,337. Sally’s assessable income from her 10 year annuity is:
46Y Income—asset-tested income stream (long term) that is a defined benefit income stream
If the asset-tested income stream (long term) to which this Subdivision applies is a defined benefit income stream, the amount that the person is taken to receive from the income stream each year is worked out as follows:
where:
annual payment means the amount payable to the person for the year under the income stream.
deductible amount has the meaning given by subsection 5J(1).
46YA Income from certain low-payment asset-tested income streams
(1)	If:
(a)	an income stream is an asset-tested income stream (long term) to which this Subdivision applies; and
(b)	the income stream is an allocated pension within the meaning of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations 1994; and
(c)	one or more payments have been, or are to be, made under the income stream in respect of a period (the payment period) that:
(i)	consists of the whole or a part of a financial year; and
(ii)	begins on or after the income stream’s commencement day; and
(d)	on a day in the payment period, the amount worked out using the formula in subsection (2) is less than the amount worked out using the formula in subsection (3);
the annual rate of ordinary income of a person from the income stream on that day is worked out under subsection (3).
Annual rate based on total payments
(2)	For the purposes of paragraph (1)(d), the formula in this subsection is:
where:
purchase price has the meaning given by subsection 5J(1).
relevant number has the meaning given by subsection 5J(1).
total payments means the payment, or the total of the payments, made, or to be made, under the income stream in respect of the payment period.
Annual rate based on minimum amount
(3)	For the purposes of paragraph (1)(d), the formula in this subsection is:
where:
minimum amount means the minimum amount calculated in accordance with the method determined, by legislative instrument, by the Minister for the purposes of this definition.
purchase price has the meaning given by subsection 5J(1).
relevant number has the meaning given by subsection 5J(1).
Exception—income stream’s commencement day happens in June
(4)	If:
(a)	the income stream’s commencement day happens in June; and
(b)	no payment is made under the income stream for the financial year in which the commencement day happens;
subsections (2) and (3) do not apply in working out the annual rate of ordinary income of the person from the income stream on a day in that financial year.
46YB Income—asset-tested income stream (lifetime)
If the income stream is an asset-tested income stream (lifetime), the amount that the person is taken to receive from the income stream each year is worked out as follows:
where:
annual payment means the amount payable to the person for the year under the income stream.
Subdivision C—Family law affected income streams
46Z Scope of Subdivision
(1)	This Subdivision applies to family law affected income streams.
(2)	However, this Subdivision does not apply to:
(a)	an asset-tested income stream (long term) that is an account-based pension within the meaning of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations 1994; or
(b)	an asset-tested income stream (long term) that is an annuity (within the meaning of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993) provided under a contract that meets the requirements determined in an instrument under subsection 5J(1G) of this Act.
Note 1:	For treatment of an income stream mentioned in subsection (2), see Division 3.
Note 2:	Part 2 of Schedule 11 to the Social Services and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2014 preserves the rules in this Subdivision for a certain kind of income stream that was being provided to a person immediately before 1 January 2015 where the person was receiving an income support payment immediately before that day provided that, since that day, that income stream has been provided to the person and the person has been continuously receiving an income support payment.
46ZA Income from asset-test exempt income streams
(1)	For the purpose of working out the annual rate of ordinary income of a person from an asset-test exempt income stream to which this Subdivision applies, the person is taken to receive from that income stream each year:
(a)	if the income stream is not a defined benefit income stream or a military invalidity pension income stream—the amount determined by the Commission under this paragraph; or
(b)	if the income stream is a defined benefit income stream—the amount determined by the Commission under this paragraph; or
(c)	if the income stream is a military invalidity pension income stream—the amount determined by the Commission under this paragraph.
(2)	In making a determination under paragraph (1)(a), (b) or (c), the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles in force under section 46ZC.
46ZB Income from asset-tested income stream (long term)
(1)	For the purpose of working out the annual rate of ordinary income of a person from an asset-tested income stream (long term) to which this Subdivision applies, the person is taken to receive from that income stream each year:
(a)	if the income stream is not a defined benefit income stream—the amount determined by the Commission under this paragraph; or
(b)	if the income stream is a defined benefit income stream—the amount determined by the Commission under this paragraph.
(2)	In making a determination under paragraph (1)(a) or (b), the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles in force under section 46ZC.
46ZBA Income from asset-tested income stream (lifetime)
(1)	For the purpose of working out the annual rate of ordinary income of a person from an asset-tested income stream (lifetime) to which this Subdivision applies, the person is taken to receive from that income stream each year the amount determined by the Commission under this subsection.
(2)	In making a determination under subsection (1), the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles in force under section 46ZC.
46ZC Decision-making principles
The Commission may, by legislative instrument, formulate principles (decision-making principles) to be complied with by it in making decisions under:
(a)	paragraph 46ZA(1)(a); or
(b)	paragraph 46ZA(1)(b); or
(ba)	paragraph 46ZA(1)(c); or
(c)	paragraph 46ZB(1)(a); or
(d)	paragraph 46ZB(1)(b); or
(e)	subsection 46ZBA(1).
	Division 6 — Income tests—conversion of foreign currency amounts
47 Application of Division
(1)	The Commission may determine in writing that this Division applies in relation to a foreign currency.
(2)	This Division applies in relation to a foreign currency in relation to which a determination under subsection (1) is in force.
(3)	This Division applies for the purposes of the Rate Calculator.
47A Conversion of foreign currency amounts
The value in Australian currency of a payment received by a person in foreign currency is to be worked out using:
(a)	if section 47C applies—the re-assessed exchange rate; or
(b)	in any other case—the base exchange rate (see section 47B).
47B Base exchange rate
The base exchange rate for a foreign currency for a foreign exchange period is the average (calculated to 4 decimal places) of the actual market exchange rates available on each working day of the first month of the year to start during the immediately preceding foreign exchange period.
47C Re-assessed exchange rate
(1)	If for 10 consecutive working days:
(a)	starting after a month of the year in relation to which section 47B operates; and
(b)	ending before the next month of the year in relation to which section 47B operates;
the actual market exchange rate available differs, by at least 10%, from:
(c)	unless paragraph (d) applies—the base exchange rate for the next foreign exchange period; or
(d)	if a re-assessed exchange rate has already been worked out under this subsection for the purposes of the next foreign exchange period—the last re-assessed exchange rate so worked out;
the re-assessed exchange rate for a foreign currency is the average (calculated to 4 decimal places) of the actual market exchange rates available on those consecutive working days.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not apply to a working day if the actual market exchange rate available on that day has been used to work out a re-assessed exchange rate in a previous application of that subsection.
47D Applicability of re-assessed exchange rate
(1)	The Commission must determine in writing the day on which a re-assessed exchange rate becomes applicable.
(2)	The day determined under subsection (1) is to be no later than 6 weeks after the tenth consecutive working day covered by subsection 47C(1).
(3)	A re-assessed exchange rate:
(a)	becomes applicable on the day determined under subsection (1), unless a new re-assessed exchange rate has already become applicable; and
(b)	remains applicable until:
(i)	a new re-assessed exchange rate becomes applicable; or
(ii)	the commencement of the next exchange period the base exchange rate for which has been worked out by reference to working days later than those by reference to which the re-assessed exchange rate was worked out.
47E Rounding off exchange rates
If an exchange rate worked out under this Division would, if it were calculated to 5 decimal places, end in a number greater than 4, the rate worked out is to be taken to be the rate calculated to 4 decimal places and increased by 0.0001.
	Division 7 — Income tests—disposal of ordinary income
48 Disposal of ordinary income
(1)	For the purposes of this Act, a person disposes of ordinary income of the person if the person engages in a course of conduct that diminishes, directly or indirectly, the rate of the person’s ordinary income and either:
(a)	the person receives no consideration in money or money’s worth for the diminution; or
(b)	the person receives inadequate consideration in money or money’s worth for the diminution; or
(c)	the Commission is satisfied that the purpose, or the dominant purpose, of the person in engaging in that course of conduct was:
(i)	to obtain or enable the person’s partner to obtain a service pension, income support supplement, a veteran payment or a social security pension or benefit; or
(ii)	to obtain or enable the person’s partner to obtain a service pension, income support supplement, a veteran payment or a social security pension or benefit at a higher rate than that which would otherwise have been payable; or
(iii)	to ensure that the person or the person’s partner would be eligible for benefits under Division 12 of this Part or fringe benefits under the Social Security Act.
Note:	For amount of disposition see section 48A.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not apply to a course of conduct consisting of the provision of short-term or long-term residential accommodation to a family member of the person for no payment or payment less than the market value of the provision of the accommodation.
Note:	For family member see subsection 5L(1).
48A Amount of disposition
If a person disposes of ordinary income, the amount of the disposition is the amount that, in the Commission’s opinion, is:
(a)	if the person receives no consideration for the diminution in the rate of the person’s ordinary income—the annual rate of the diminution of the person’s ordinary income; or
(b)	if the person receives consideration for the diminution in the rate of the person’s ordinary income—the annual rate of the diminution less the part (if any) of the consideration that the Commission determines, in writing, to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
48B Disposal of ordinary income—not a member of a couple
If a person who is not a member of a couple has, on or after 1 June 1984, disposed of ordinary income of the person, the amount of that disposition is to be included in the person’s ordinary income for the purposes of this Act.
Note 1:	For disposes of income see section 48.
Note 2:	For amount of disposition see section 48A.
Note 3:	For ordinary income see subsection 5H(1): ordinary income includes investment income but does not include maintenance income.
48C Disposal of ordinary income—members of couples
(1)	Subject to subsections (2), (3) and (4), if a person who is a member of a couple has, on or after 1 June 1984, disposed of ordinary income of the person:
(a)	50% of the amount of the disposition is to be included in the person’s ordinary income; and
(b)	50% of the amount of the disposition is to be included in the person’s partner’s ordinary income.
Note 1:	For disposes of income see section 48.
Note 2:	For amount of disposition see section 48A.
(2)	If:
(a)	amounts are included under subsection (1) in the ordinary income of a person who is a member of a couple and in the person’s partner’s ordinary income because the person has disposed of ordinary income; and
(b)	the person and the person’s partner cease to be members of the same couple;
any amount that was included in the ordinary income of the person’s former partner because of the disposition is to be included in the person’s ordinary income.
(3)	If:
(a)	amounts are included under subsection (1) in the ordinary income of a person who is a member of a couple and in the person’s partner’s ordinary income because the person has disposed of ordinary income; and
(b)	the person dies;
no amount is to be included in the ordinary income of the person’s partner because of the disposition.
(4)	If:
(a)	an amount is included under subsection (1) in the ordinary income of a person who is a member of a couple and in the person’s partner’s ordinary income because the person has disposed of ordinary income; and
(b)	the person’s partner dies;
any amount that would, if the person’s partner had not died, be included in the ordinary income of the person’s partner because of the disposition is to be included in the person’s ordinary income.
Note:	For ordinary income see subsection 5H(1): ordinary income includes investment income but does not include maintenance income.
48E Dispositions more than 5 years old to be disregarded
This Division does not apply to a disposition of ordinary income that took place:
(a)	more than 5 years before the time when:
(i)	the person who disposed of the ordinary income; or
(ii)	if the person who disposed of the ordinary income was, at the time of disposition, a member of a couple—the person’s partner;
became eligible to receive a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment; or
(b)	less than 5 years before the time referred to in paragraph (a) and before the time when the Commission is satisfied that the person who disposed of the ordinary income could reasonably have expected that the person or the person’s partner would become eligible to receive a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment.
	Division 9 — Self-employment programs
50 General effect of Division
This Division adjusts the service pension rate, income support supplement rate or veteran payment rate of a person who is receiving, or whose partner is receiving, payments under a self-employment program.
Note:	Payments under a self-employment program do not count as ordinary income for the purposes of the ordinary income test: see paragraph 5H(8)(x).
50A Reduction in rate of payments under this Part if recipient or partner also receiving payments under a self-employment program
(1)	If:
(a)	an instalment of service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment is payable to a person during a pension period; and
(b)	a payment under a self-employment program is payable to the person during that pension period;
the rate of the payment referred to in paragraph (a) is to be reduced under this Division.
(2)	If:
(a)	an instalment of age or invalidity service pension or veteran payment is payable to a person during a pension period; and
(b)	a payment under a self-employment program is payable to the person during that pension period; and
(c)	an instalment of partner service pension or veteran payment in respect of the person is payable to the person’s partner during a pension period;
the rate of the partner’s payment is also to be reduced under this Division.
(3)	If:
(a)	an instalment of income support supplement or veteran payment is payable to a person during a pension period; and
(b)	a payment under a self-employment program is payable to the person during that pension period; and
(c)	an instalment of:
(i)	age service pension; or
(ii)	invalidity service pension; or
(iii)	veteran payment;
is payable to the person’s partner during a pension period;
the rate of the partner’s payment is also to be reduced under this Division.
50B Rate reduction under this Division
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), if a person’s rate of payment under Part III or IIIA, or rate of veteran payment, is to be reduced under this Division because of a payment under a self-employment program (a self-employment program payment), the amount of rate reduction is to be equal to the amount of the self-employment program payment.
(2)	If:
(a)	a person’s rate of payment under Part III or IIIA, or rate of veteran payment, is to be reduced under this Division because of a self-employment program payment; and
(b)	the person’s partner’s rate of payment under Part III or IIIA, or rate of veteran payment, is also to be reduced under this Division (see subsection 50A(2) or (3)) because of the self-employment program payment;
the amount of rate reduction for both the person and the person’s partner is to be equal to 50% of the amount of the self-employment program payment.
(3)	A person’s rate of payment under Part III or IIIA, or rate of veteran payment, is not to be reduced below nil under subsection (1) or (2).
	Division 11 — General provisions relating to the assets test
Subdivision A—Value of person’s assets
52 Certain assets to be disregarded in calculating the value of a person’s assets
(1)	In calculating the value of a person’s assets for the purposes of this Act (other than sections 52G, 52H, 52JA, 52JB, 52JC, 52JD, 52ZA and 52ZCA), disregard the following:
(a)	if the person is not a member of a couple—the value of any right or interest of the person in the person’s principal home that is a right or interest that gives the person reasonable security of tenure in the home;
(b)	if the person is a member of a couple—the value of any right or interest of the person in one residence that is the principal home of the person, of the person’s partner or of both of them that is a right or interest that gives the person or the person’s partner reasonable security of tenure in the home;
(c)	the value of any life interest of the person other than:
(i)	a life interest in the principal home of the person, of the person’s partner or of both of them; or
(ii)	a life interest created by the person, by the person’s partner or by both of them; or
(iii)	a life interest created on the death of the person’s partner;
Note:	The exclusion from paragraph (1)(c) of the value of a person’s life interest mentioned in subparagraph (i), (ii) or (iii) does not result in the value of the interest being included in the person’s assets if the interest falls within paragraph (1)(a) or (b).
(d)	the value of any asset-test exempt income stream of the person, other than a partially asset-test exempt income stream;
(daa)	half of the value of any partially asset-test exempt income stream of the person;
Note:	For partially asset-test exempt income stream, see subsection (1AA).
(da)	the value of any foreign superannuation pension of the person;
(e)	any amount that is:
(i)	received by the person within the immediately preceding period of 90 days; and
(ii)	is excluded from the definition of income in subsection 5H(1) by subsection 5H(4) or (5);
(f)	the value of the person’s investment in:
(i)	a superannuation fund; or
(ii)	an approved deposit fund; or
(iiia)	an ATO small superannuation account;
until the person:
(iv)	reaches pension age; or
(v)	commences to receive a pension or annuity out of the fund;
Note:	Some investments in superannuation funds, approved deposit funds and ATO small superannuation accounts may be disregarded—see section 52AA.
(fa)	if:
(i)	the person has a granny flat interest in the person’s principal home; and
(ii)	the granny flat interest gives the person reasonable security of tenure in the home; and
(iii)	the person acquired or retained the granny flat interest before 22 August 1990;
the value of the granny flat interest;
(fb)	if:
(i)	the person has a granny flat interest in the person’s principal home; and
(ii)	the person is a person to whom subsection 52Q(2), 52R(2), 52S(2), 52S(5), 52T(2), 52U(2) or 52V(2) applies;
the value of the granny flat interest;
Note:	A person described in subparagraph (ii) will have acquired or retained the granny flat interest on or after 22 August 1990 (see section 52KA).
(fc)	if:
(i)	the person is a sale leaseback resident; and
(ii)	the person is a person to whom subsection 52Q(2), 52R(2), 52S(2), 52S(5), 52T(2), 52U(2) or 52V(2) applies;
the value of any right or interest of the person in the sale leaseback home;
(g)	the value of any contingent, remainder or reversionary interest of the person (other than an interest created by the person, by the person’s partner or by both of them);
(h)	the value of any assets (other than a contingent, remainder or reversionary interest) to which the person is entitled from the estate of a deceased person but which has not been, and is not able to be, received;
(i)	the value of any medal or other decoration awarded (whether to the person or another person) for valour that is owned by the person otherwise than for the purposes of investment or a hobby;
(j)	the value of:
(i)	any cemetery plot acquired by the person for the burial of the person or the person’s partner; and
(ii)	any funeral expenses paid in advance by the person in respect of the funeral of the person or the person’s partner;
(ja)	an amount invested in an exempt funeral investment and any return on the investment;
Note:	For exempt funeral investment see section 5PC.
(k)	if:
(i)	personal property of the person is designed for use by a disabled person; and
(ii)	the person, the person’s partner or a child who is dependent on the person or the person’s partner is disabled;
the value of the property;
(l)	if:
(i)	personal property of the person is modified so that it can be used by a disabled person; and
(ii)	the person, the person’s partner or a child who is dependent on the person or the person’s partner is disabled;
the part of the value of the property that is attributable to the modifications;
(m)	if the person is provided with a motor vehicle under the Vehicle Assistance Scheme—the value of that motor vehicle;
(ma)	if the person is provided with a motor vehicle under the Motor Vehicle Compensation Scheme under section 212 of the MRCA—the value of that motor vehicle;
(n)	if the person has sold a residence that was the principal home of the person on terms and has purchased, also on terms, another residence that is the principal home of the person—so much of the balance due to the person in respect of the sale as will be applied by the person in respect of the purchase of the other residence;
Note:	For principal home and other assets test definitions, see sections 5L and 5LA.
(o)	the amount of any insurance or compensation payments received by the person because of the loss of, or damage to, buildings, plant or personal effects within the immediately preceding 12 months, or such longer period as the Commission determines for any special reason for a particular payment;
Note:	The payments in paragraph (o) are not income for the purposes of this Act (see paragraph 5H(8)(q)).
(oa)	if subsection (1C) applies (application of insurance etc. payments to rebuilding etc.)—the amount worked out under that subsection, during the period mentioned in subsection (1D);
(oaa)	if a person has received an NDIS amount—the amount worked out under subsection (1DAA);
(ob)	the value of any native title rights and interests of the person, or of a community or group of which the person is a member;
(p)	the amount of any accommodation bond balance in respect of an accommodation bond paid by the person;
(pa)	the amount of any refundable deposit balance in respect of a refundable deposit paid by the person;
(q)	the amount (if any) that the person has retained from a payment made to the person by the Mark Fitzpatrick Trust.
Definitions
(1AA)	For the purposes of paragraphs (1)(d) and (daa):
partially asset-test exempt income stream means:
(a)	an asset-test exempt income stream that:
(i)	is an income stream (other than a defined benefit income stream or a military invalidity pension income stream) covered by subsection 5JA(1) or (1A), 5JB(1) or 5JBA(1); and
(ii)	has a commencement day during the period from 20 September 2004 to 19 September 2007 (both dates inclusive); and
(iii)	is not covered by principles (if any) determined for the purposes of this subparagraph, by legislative instrument, by the Commission; or
(b)	an income stream that:
(i)	has a commencement day happening on or after 20 September 2007; and
(ii)	is covered by principles determined for the purposes of this subparagraph, by legislative instrument, by the Commission.
(1AB)	The Commission may determine principles for the purposes of subparagraph (a)(iii) of the definition of partially asset-test exempt income stream in subsection (1AA).
(1AC)	The Commission may determine principles for the purposes of subparagraph (b)(ii) of the definition of partially asset-test exempt income stream in subsection (1AA).
(1A)	For the purposes of the application of this section in relation to income support supplement, the reference in subparagraph (1)(f)(iv) to pension age is taken to be a reference to the qualifying age.
Note:	For qualifying age see section 5Q.
Application of insurance etc. payments to rebuilding etc.
(1B)	Subsection (1C) applies if:
(a)	a person receives any insurance or compensation payments because of loss of or damage to a building (including the person’s principal home) or plant; and
(b)	either:
(i)	if the building or plant was lost—the person applies the whole or a part of those payments to build another building or plant to replace the building or plant that was lost; or
(ii)	if the building or plant was damaged—the person applies the whole or a part of those payments to rebuild, repair or renovate the building or plant.
(1C)	For the purposes of paragraph (1)(oa), the amount that may be disregarded is:
(a)	the value of the building or plant that is being built, rebuilt, repaired or renovated, to the extent that those payments are so applied; and
(b)	if a building whose value is being disregarded under paragraph (a) of this subsection is to be the person’s principal home:
(i)	the value of the land on which the building is being built, rebuilt, repaired or renovated to the extent that, once the building becomes the person’s principal home, the land will, under section 5LA, be included in a reference to the principal home; and
(ii)	the value of any other structure, on that land, that is to be the person’s principal home to the extent that the structure was built before the person began applying the payments.
(1D)	For the purposes of paragraph (1)(oa), the amount worked out under subsection (1C) may be disregarded during the period:
(a)	beginning when the payments are received; and
(b)	ending at the earlier of the following times:
(i)	12 months, or such longer period as the Commission determines for any special reason, after that time;
(ii)	when the building, rebuilding, repair or renovation of the building or plant is complete.
NDIS amounts
(1DAA)	For the purposes of paragraph (1)(oaa), the amount that may be disregarded is the value of the sum of:
(a)	the NDIS amounts received by the person; and
(b)	any return on those amounts that the person earns, derives or receives;
less the sum of the amounts spent by the person in accordance with an NDIS plan (whether in the person’s capacity as an NDIS participant or as a person managing the funding under an NDIS plan for an NDIS participant).
Native title rights and interests
(1DA)	In this section:
native title rights and interests means:
(a)	native title rights and interests within the meaning of section 223 of the Native Title Act 1993; or
(b)	any rights and interests of a similar nature under any law of a State, a Territory or a foreign country (whether or not the rights and interests relate to land or waters outside Australia);
but, to avoid any doubt, does not include any right or interest in a lease or licence, or in a freehold estate.
Application of proceeds of sale of principal home
(1E)	Subsection (2) applies if:
(a)	a person sells the person’s principal home; and
(b)	either:
(i)	the person does not have a right or interest in a principal home; or
(ii)	the person has a right or interest in a principal home that does not give the person reasonable security of tenure in the home; and
(c)	before the end of 24 months, or any longer period determined under subsection (2A), after the sale, one or more of the following applies:
(i)	the person intends to apply the whole or a part of the proceeds of the sale to build, rebuild, repair or renovate another residence that is to be the person’s principal home;
(ii)	the person applies the whole or a part of the proceeds of the sale to build, rebuild, repair or renovate another residence that is to be the person’s principal home;
(iii)	the person intends to apply the whole or a part of the proceeds of the sale to purchase another residence that is to be the person’s principal home.
(2)	For the purposes of this Part (other than Subdivision B of this Division and Division 3):
(a)	if subparagraph (1E)(c)(i) applies—disregard the proceeds, to the extent that the person intends to apply those proceeds to build, rebuild, repair or renovate the other residence, until the earlier of the following times:
(i)	the period mentioned in paragraph (1E)(c) ends;
(ii)	the Commission becomes satisfied that the person has ceased to have that intention; or
(b)	if subparagraph (1E)(c)(ii) applies—disregard the value of the following, until the end of the period mentioned in paragraph (1E)(c), to the extent that the person applies those proceeds to build, rebuild, repair or renovate that other residence:
(i)	the value of the other residence;
(ii)	the value of the land on which the other residence is being built, rebuilt, repaired or renovated to the extent that, once the building becomes the person’s principal home, the land will, under section 5LA, be included in a reference to the principal home;
(iii)	the value of any other structure, on that land, that is to be the person’s principal home to the extent that the structure was built before the person began applying those proceeds; or
(c)	if subparagraph (1E)(c)(iii) applies—disregard the proceeds, to the extent that the person intends to apply those proceeds to purchase the other residence, until the earlier of the following times:
(i)	the period mentioned in paragraph (1E)(c) ends;
(ii)	the Commission becomes satisfied that the person has ceased to have that intention.
(2A)	For the purposes of subsection (1E), the Commission may determine, in writing, a period of up to 36 months if:
(a)	a person who has sold his or her principal home is making reasonable attempts to purchase, build, repair or renovate another residence; and
(b)	the person has been making those attempts within a reasonable period after selling the principal home; and
(c)	the person has experienced delays beyond his or her control in purchasing, building, repairing or renovating the other residence.
Value of certain personal effects of less than $10,000
(3)	For the purposes of this section, where:
(a)	the value of any assets of a person or, if the person is a member of a couple, of the person and the person’s partner, that consists of the contents of a principal home and of other personal effects that are used primarily within the principal home does not exceed $10,000; and
(b)	the assets are used primarily for private or domestic purposes;
the value of the assets is to be taken to be $10,000 unless the person satisfies the Commission that the value of the assets is less than $10,000.
This section subject to sections 52KA to 52X
(4)	This section has effect subject to sections 52KA to 52X (special residences).
Note:	The total value of the person’s assets may be reduced in some circumstances if the person has an exempt bond amount (see clause 15 of Schedule 5) or a refunded amount (see clause 17D of Schedule 5).
52AA Value of superannuation investments determined by Minister to be disregarded
(1)	The value of a person’s investment in a superannuation fund, an approved deposit fund or an ATO small superannuation account is to be disregarded in calculating the value of the person’s assets for the purposes of this Act (other than Division 3 or section 52FA, 52G, 52GA, 52H, 52JA, 52JB, 52JC, 52JD, 52ZA or 52ZCA) if the investment is specified in a determination made under subsection (2).
(2)	The Minister may specify:
(a)	a specified investment in a superannuation fund, an approved deposit fund or an ATO small superannuation account; or
(b)	a specified class of investments in a superannuation fund, an approved deposit fund or an ATO small superannuation account;
in a determination.
(3)	A determination must be in writing.
(4)	A determination takes effect on the day on which it is made or on such other day (whether earlier or later) as is specified in the determination.
52A Value of asset-tested income streams that are not defined benefit income streams, asset-tested income streams (lifetime) or family law affected income streams
(1)	This section applies to a person’s asset-tested income stream if it is not a defined benefit income stream, it is not an asset-tested income stream (lifetime) and it is not a family law affected income stream.
Note:	For defined benefit income streams, see section 52B. For asset-tested income streams (lifetime), see sections 52BAA and 52BAB. For family law affected income streams, see section 52BA.
(2)	The value of the income stream is, for the purposes of the assets test, worked out:
(a)	if the person receives payments from the income stream 2 or more times a year—in relation to each 6 month period of the income stream’s term; and
(b)	if the person receives a payment from the income stream only once a year—in relation to each 12 month period of the income stream’s term.
(3)	If the income stream has an account balance, the value of the income stream, for the purposes of the assets test, is the value of the account balance at the beginning of the 6 month or 12 month period (as the case requires) referred to in subsection (2).
(4)	If the income stream does not have an account balance, the value of the income stream is, for the purposes of the assets test, worked out as follows:
where:
purchase price has the meaning given by subsection 5J(1).
relevant number has the meaning given by subsection 5J(1).
residual capital value has the meaning given by subsection 5J(1).
term elapsed is the number of years of the term that have elapsed since the commencement day of the income stream, rounded down:
(a)	in the case of an income stream referred to in paragraph (2)(a)—to the nearest half-year; and
(b)	in the case of an income stream referred to in paragraph (2)(b)—to the nearest whole year.
Example:	Sally is 65 years old and single. She purchases a 10 year annuity for $150,000 with a residual capital value of $20,000. Her total annual annuity payment is $18,337. Monthly payments commence on 1 January. Her assessable asset for the first six months will be:
Her assessable asset after 30 June in that year will be:
52B Value of asset-tested income streams that are defined benefit income streams
(1)	This section applies to a person’s asset-tested income stream if it is a defined benefit income stream and it is not a family law affected income stream.
Note:	For family law affected income streams, see section 52BA.
(2)	The value of the income stream is, for the purposes of the assets test, worked out in relation to each 12 month period of the income stream’s term.
(3)	The value of the income stream is, for the purposes of the assets test, worked out as follows:
where:
annual payment means the amount payable to the person for the relevant 12 month period under the income stream.
pension valuation factor means the pension valuation factor that applies to the person in accordance with the determination made by the Minister under subsection (4).
(4)	The Minister must, by legislative instrument, make a determination for the purposes of the definition of pension valuation factor in subsection (3).
52BAA Value of asset-tested income streams (lifetime) that are managed investments
(1)	This section applies to a person’s asset-tested income stream (lifetime), that does not arise under arrangements that are regulated by the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993, in relation to a day that is before the person’s assessment day (within the meaning of section 52BAB) for the income stream.
Note:	For asset-tested income stream (lifetime), see subsection 5J(1).
(2)	However, this section does not apply to a family law affected income stream.
Note:	For family law affected income streams, see section 52BA.
Value of income stream
(3)	Subject to this section, the value of the person’s income stream is, for the purposes of the assets test, the purchase amount for the income stream.
Purchase amount
(4)	For the purposes of this section, the purchase amount for the income stream is:
(a)	subject to paragraph (b)—if one or more amounts have been paid for the income stream, the sum of each compounded amount in relation to an amount paid for the income stream, as worked out under subsection (5), less any commuted amounts; or
(b)	if the circumstances determined in an instrument under subsection (7) apply in relation to the income stream—the amount worked out in accordance with that instrument.
(5)	A compounded amount in relation to an amount paid for the income stream is worked out by applying the following formula for each relevant adjustment day (from the earliest to the latest):
where:
compounded amount for the relevant adjustment day means:
(a)	for the earliest relevant adjustment day—the amount that was paid for the income stream; or
(b)	for each later relevant adjustment day—the result of applying the formula for the most recent earlier relevant adjustment day.
relevant above threshold rate for the relevant adjustment day means the following:
(a)	if the relevant adjustment day is the relevant payment day—zero;
(b)	if the relevant adjustment day is a 12-month anniversary of the relevant payment day—the rate applicable under subsection 46J(2) for that relevant adjustment day, expressed as a decimal fraction.
relevant adjustment day means each of the following:
(a)	the relevant payment day;
(b)	each 12-month anniversary of the relevant payment day.
relevant payment day means the day that the amount was paid for the income stream.
(6)	If the income stream is a joint income stream, then, for the purposes of applying subsections (4) and (5) to the person and to a day covered by subsection (1), an amount paid for the income stream is taken to be that amount multiplied by the proportion of the income stream attributable to the person on that day.
(7)	The Commission may make a legislative instrument for the purposes of paragraph (4)(b).
52BAB Value of asset-tested income streams (lifetime) that are not managed investments
(1)	This section applies to a person’s asset-tested income stream (lifetime) in relation to a day that is on or after the person’s assessment day for the income stream.
Note 1:	For asset-tested income stream (lifetime), see subsection 5J(1). For assessment day, see subsections (6) and (7) of this section.
Note 2:	This section applies separately in relation to each asset-tested income stream (lifetime) of a person.
(2)	However, this section does not apply to a family law affected income stream.
Note:	For family law affected income streams, see section 52BA.
Value of income stream
(3)	Subject to this section, the value of the person’s income stream is, for the purposes of the assets test, worked out as follows:
(a)	for a day in the period beginning on the person’s assessment day for the income stream and ending at the end of the person’s threshold day for the income stream:
(b)	for a day after the person’s threshold day for the income stream:
Note:	For threshold day, see subsections (10) and (11). For purchase amount, see subsection (13).
(4)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, determine one or more methods for working out the value of an asset-tested income stream (lifetime) for persons to whom this section applies.
(5)	If one or more amounts worked out in accordance with the instrument are higher than the amount under subsection (3), then the value of the person’s income stream is, for the purposes of the assets test, the highest of those amounts.
Assessment day
(6)	Subject to subsection (7), for the purposes of this section, a person’s assessment day for an asset-tested income stream (lifetime) is:
(a)	if the income stream arises under arrangements that are regulated by the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993—the latest of the following:
(i)	the day the person first satisfies a condition of release that is mentioned in regulations under the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 and is of a kind determined in an instrument under subsection (9);
(ii)	the day the first amount was paid for the income stream;
(iii)	the day the person acquired the income stream (if no amount is identifiable as having been paid for the income stream); or
(b)	otherwise:
(i)	if the commencement day in relation to the income stream is before the day the person reaches pension age—the commencement day in relation to the income stream; or
(ii)	in any other case—the latest of the day the first amount was paid for the income stream, the day the person reaches pension age and the day the person acquired the income stream (if no amount is identifiable as having been paid for the income stream).
Note:	For commencement day, see subsection 5J(1). For pension age, see section 5Q.
(7)	For the purposes of this section, a person’s assessment day for an asset-tested income stream (lifetime) that reverted to the person as a reversionary beneficiary is:
(a)	if the income stream reverted to the person on or after the commencement day in relation to the income stream—the day of the reversion; or
(b)	if the income stream reverted to the person before the commencement day in relation to the income stream and the income stream arises under arrangements that are regulated by the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993:
(i)	if the commencement day in relation to the income stream is before the day the person first satisfies a condition of release that is mentioned in regulations under the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 and is of a kind determined in an instrument under subsection (9)—the commencement day in relation to the income stream; or
(ii)	in any other case—the later of the day of the reversion and the day the person first satisfies a condition of release that is mentioned in regulations under the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 and is of a kind determined in an instrument under subsection (9); or
(c)	if the income stream reverted to the person before the commencement day in relation to the income stream and the income stream does not arise under arrangements that are regulated by the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993:
(i)	if the commencement day in relation to the income stream is before the day the person reaches pension age—the commencement day in relation to the income stream; or
(ii)	in any other case—the later of the day of the reversion and the day the person reaches pension age.
Note:	For commencement day, see subsection 5J(1). For pension age, see section 5Q.
(8)	For the purposes of the application of subsection (6) or (7) in relation to income support supplement, the references in that subsection to pension age are taken to be references to qualifying age.
Note:	For qualifying age, see section 5Q.
(9)	The Commission may, by notifiable instrument, determine a kind of condition of release for the purposes of subparagraphs (6)(a)(i) and (7)(b)(i) and (ii).
Threshold day
(10)	Subject to subsection (11), for the purposes of this section, a person’s threshold day for an asset-tested income stream (lifetime) is worked out using the following method statement:
Method statement
Step 1.	Work out, in relation to a man aged 65 on the person’s assessment day for the income stream, the number of expected years remaining in the man’s life, by reference to the instrument in force under subsection (12) on that assessment day, rounded down to the nearest whole number of years.
Note:	The number of expected years remaining in a 65-year old man’s life is used no matter how old the person is and whether the person is a man or a woman.
Step 2.	Increase the number of years at step 1 by 65.
Step 3.	Subject to step 4, the person’s threshold day for the income stream is the later of the following days:
(a)	the day before the person reaches the age in years worked out at step 2;
(b)	the last day of the 5-year period beginning on the person’s assessment day for the income stream.
Step 4.	If the income stream is a joint income stream, the person’s threshold day for the income stream is the later of the following days:
(a)	the day before the oldest of the persons, to whom a proportion of the income stream is attributable on the person’s assessment day for the income stream, reaches the age in years worked out at step 2;
(b)	the last day of the 5-year period beginning on the person’s assessment day for the income stream.
(11)	If:
(a)	an asset-tested income stream (lifetime) reverts to a person as a reversionary beneficiary on the death of another person; and
(b)	before the death of the other person, the other person’s assessment day for the income stream had occurred;
then:
(c)	if, before the death of the other person, the other person’s threshold day for the income stream had not occurred—the reversionary beneficiary’s threshold day for the income stream is taken to be the day that would have been the other person’s threshold day if the other person had not died; and
(d)	if, before the death of the other person, the other person’s threshold day for the income stream had occurred—the reversionary beneficiary’s threshold day for the income stream is taken to be the other person’s threshold day; and
(e)	if the reversionary beneficiary’s assessment day for the income stream worked out under subsection (7) is on or after the reversionary beneficiary’s threshold day for the income stream worked out under paragraph (c) or (d) of this subsection:
(i)	paragraph (3)(a) is taken not to apply to the reversionary beneficiary and the income stream; and
(ii)	paragraph (3)(b) is taken to apply to the reversionary beneficiary and the income stream for a day that is on or after the reversionary beneficiary’s assessment day for the income stream.
(12)	The Commission may make a notifiable instrument for the purposes of step 1 of the method statement in subsection (10). If there are Life Tables published by the Australian Government Actuary, the Commission must be satisfied that the instrument is consistent with the latest of those Life Tables.
Purchase amount
(13)	For the purposes of this section, the purchase amount for the income stream is:
(a)	subject to paragraph (b)—if one or more amounts have been paid for the income stream—the sum of:
(i)	each compounded amount in relation to an amount paid for the income stream before the person’s assessment day for the income stream, as worked out under subsection (14); and
(ii)	each amount paid for the income stream on or after that assessment day;
less any commuted amounts; or
(b)	if the circumstances determined in an instrument under subsection (16) apply in relation to the income stream—the amount worked out in accordance with that instrument.
(14)	A compounded amount in relation to an amount paid for the income stream before the person’s assessment day for the income stream is worked out by applying the following formula for each relevant adjustment day (from the earliest to the latest):
where:
compounded amount for the relevant adjustment day means:
(a)	for the earliest relevant adjustment day—the amount that was paid for the income stream; or
(b)	for each later relevant adjustment day—the result of applying the formula for the most recent earlier relevant adjustment day.
relevant above threshold rate for the relevant adjustment day means:
(a)	if the relevant adjustment day is a 12-month anniversary of the relevant payment day—the rate applicable under subsection 46J(2) for that relevant adjustment day, expressed as a decimal fraction; or
(b)	if the relevant adjustment day is the assessment day—the amount worked out in accordance with the following formula:
relevant adjustment day means each of the following:
(a)	each 12-month anniversary of the relevant payment day that happens before the person’s assessment day;
(b)	the person’s assessment day.
Note:	For assessment day, see subsections (6) and (7).
relevant number of days means the number of days in the period:
(a)	beginning on the day after:
(i)	if the assessment day is at least 12 months after the relevant payment day—the most recent 12-month anniversary of the relevant payment day; or
(ii)	otherwise—the relevant payment day; and
(b)	ending at the end of the assessment day.
relevant payment day means the day that the amount was paid for the income stream.
(15)	If the income stream is a joint income stream, then, for the purposes of applying subsections (13) and (14) to the person and to a day covered by subsection (1), an amount paid for the income stream is taken to be that amount multiplied by the proportion of the income stream attributable to the person on that day.
(16)	The Commission may make a legislative instrument for the purposes of paragraph (13)(b).
52BA Value of asset-tested FLA income streams
(1)	This section applies to family law affected income streams.
(2)	The value of an income stream that is not a defined benefit income stream is, for the purposes of the assets test, determined by the Commission.
(3)	The value of an income stream that is a defined benefit income stream is, for the purposes of the assets test, determined by the Commission.
(4)	In making a determination under subsection (2) or (3), the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles in force under subsection (5).
(5)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, formulate principles (decision-making principles) to be complied with by it in making decisions under:
(a)	subsection (2); or
(b)	subsection (3).
52BB Value of partially asset-test exempt income streams
(1)	This section applies to income streams covered by paragraph 52(1)(daa).
(2)	The value of such an income stream is, for the purposes of paragraph 52(1)(daa), worked out as follows:
(a)	if the income stream is a family law affected income stream—under section 52BA;
(b)	otherwise—under section 52A;
as if the income stream were an asset-tested income stream to which that section applied.
52BC Value of superannuation reserves for superannuation funds of 4 members or less
(1)	This section applies in calculating the value of a person’s investment in a superannuation fund if:
(a)	the fund has 4 or fewer members; and
(b)	the fund has reserves (within the meaning of section 115 of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993).
Note:	The value of a person’s investment in a superannuation fund is only included in the value of the person’s assets after the person reaches pension age or starts to receive a pension or annuity out of the fund (see paragraph 52(1)(f)).
(2)	Despite paragraph 52(1)(g), the value of the person’s investment in the superannuation fund includes the following amount:
(3)	However, if it is not possible to work out the person’s interest in the superannuation fund, the value of the person’s investment in the fund includes the following amount:
52C Effect of charge or encumbrance on value of assets
(1)	Where there is a charge or encumbrance over particular assets of the person, the value of the assets, for the purposes of calculating the value of the person’s assets for the purposes of this Act (other than Division 3 and sections 52G, 52H, 52JA, 52JB, 52JC and 52JD), is to be reduced by the value of that charge or encumbrance.
Note:	This section does not apply to an asset to which section 52CA (primary production assets) applies.
(1A)	Subsection (1) does not apply to a charge that arises under section 52ZF.
Note:	See subsection (5) for a charge that arises under section 52ZF.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not apply to a charge or encumbrance over an asset of a person to the extent that:
(a)	the charge or encumbrance is a collateral security; or
(b)	the charge or encumbrance was given for the benefit of a person other than the person or the person’s partner.
(3)	Subsection (1) does not apply to a charge or encumbrance over assets that are to be disregarded under section 52.
Exception for an asset-tested income stream (long-term)
(3A)	Subsection (1) does not apply to an asset that is an asset-tested income stream (long-term).
(3B)	Subsection (1) does not apply to an asset that is a partially asset-test exempt income stream (within the meaning of section 52).
(3C)	Subsection (1) does not apply to an asset that is an asset-tested income stream (lifetime).
(4)	Where:
(a)	there is a charge or encumbrance over assets; and
(b)	the charge does not arise under section 52ZF; and
(c)	the assets consist of assets whose value is to be disregarded under section 52 and other assets;
the amount to be deducted under subsection (1) is:
(5)	If:
(a)	a person is or was participating in the home equity access scheme; and
(b)	either:
(i)	the person’s real assets are subject to a charge under section 52ZF; or
(ii)	if the person is a member of a couple—the couple’s real assets are subject to a charge under section 52ZF;
then the value of those real assets, for the purposes of calculating the value of the person’s assets for the purposes of this Act (other than Division 3 and sections 52G, 52H, 52JA, 52JB, 52JC and 52JD), is to be reduced by the amount of the debt owed by the person under section 52ZC because of that participation.
Note:	If there are other charges or encumbrances over any of those real assets, there may be a further reduction under subsection (1) in the value of those assets.
(6)	This section has effect subject to sections 52KA to 52X (special residences).
52CA Effect of certain liabilities on value of assets used in primary production
(1)	For the purposes of working out the value of a person’s assets under this Act, if:
(a)	the person is:
(i)	a primary producer; or
(ii)	a family member of a primary producer; and
(b)	the person has assets (including real property) that are, in the Commission’s opinion, used for the purposes of carrying on that primary production; and
(c)	the person also has liabilities that are, in the Commission’s opinion, related to the carrying on of the primary production;
then:
(d)	section 52C does not apply in relation to the assets referred to in paragraph (b); and
(e)	those assets are taken to be a single asset (the primary production asset); and
(f)	the value of that single asset is worked out under subsection (2).
Note:	For family member see subsection 5L(1).
(2)	The value of a person’s primary production asset is worked out in the following way:
Method statement
Step 1.	Add together the value of the assets referred to in paragraph (1)(b): the result is called the unencumbered value.
Step 2.	Add together the value of the liabilities referred to in paragraph (1)(c): the result is called the total liability.
Step 3.	Take the total liability away from the unencumbered value: the result is the value of the person’s primary production asset.
(3)	If the result under Step 3 of the Method statement is less than nil, the value of the primary production asset is taken to be nil.
52CB Value of life policy
(1)	This section applies in relation to a person and a day (the assessment day) if:
(a)	the person has reached:
(i)	pension age; or
(ii)	in relation to income support supplement—qualifying age; and
(b)	the person is the owner (within the meaning of subsection 10(2) of the Life Insurance Act 1995) of a life policy covered by paragraph 9(1)(a) or (b) of that Act; and
(c)	the person became the owner of the policy after the person reached that age; and
(d)	the sum of each amount paid for the policy (regardless of who paid the amount) in any period of 12 months exceeds 15% of the maximum death benefit that would be payable in the event of the death of the person whose life is insured on the assessment day.
Note:	For pension age and qualifying age, see section 5Q.
(2)	The value of the life policy on the assessment day is, for the purposes of the assets test, the higher of the following:
(a)	the amount that would be payable to the person covered by paragraph (1)(b) if the policy were surrendered on that day;
(b)	the sum of each amount paid for the policy by the person covered by paragraph (1)(b), less any commuted amounts.
52D Loans
If a person lends an amount after 22 May 1986, the value of the assets of the person for the purposes of this Act includes so much of that amount as remains unpaid but does not include any amount payable by way of interest under the loan.
Subdivision B—Dispositions of assets (general provisions)
52E Disposal of assets
For the purposes of this Act, a person disposes of assets of the person if the person engages in a course of conduct that diminishes, directly or indirectly, the value of the person’s assets and:
(a)	the person receives no consideration in money or money’s worth for the diminution in the value of the person’s assets; or
(b)	the person receives inadequate consideration in money or money’s worth for the diminution in the value of the person’s assets; or
(c)	the Commission is satisfied that the purpose, or the dominant purpose, of the person in engaging in that course of conduct was:
(i)	to obtain or enable the person’s partner to obtain a service pension, income support supplement, a veteran payment or a social security pension or benefit; or
(ii)	to obtain or enable the person’s partner to obtain a service pension, income support supplement, a veteran payment or a social security pension or benefit at a higher rate than that which would otherwise have been payable; or
(iii)	to ensure that the person or the person’s partner would be eligible for benefits under Division 12 of this Part or fringe benefits under the Social Security Act.
Note:	Under Subdivision B of Division 11A of Part IIIB, certain transfers of assets to special disability trusts can be taken not to be disposals of the assets (but this can be subject to a limit on the aggregate value of the transfers).
52F Amount of disposition
Where a person disposes of assets, the amount of the disposition is:
(a)	if the person receives no consideration for the diminution in the value of the assets—an amount equal to the amount of the diminution in the value of the assets; or
(b)	if the person receives consideration for the diminution in the value of the assets—an amount equal to the amount of the diminution in the value of the assets less the amount of the consideration received by the person in respect of the diminution.
Note:	If subsection 52ZZZWM(2) applies in relation to the transfer of an asset to a special disability trust, that subsection has the effect of reducing the amount of the disposal or disposition.
52FAAA Application of asset deprivation rules to cease in respect of certain assets
If:
(a)	a person, or a person’s partner, has:
(i)	acquired an asset; or
(ii)	received consideration that is not inadequate consideration for an asset; and
(b)	the value of the asset is included in the value of the person’s assets by Subdivision BA or BB because of a previous disposition of the asset; and
(c)	the person has, by document lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T, notified the Department of the circumstances covered by paragraphs (a) and (b);
whichever of Subdivisions BA and BB is applicable ceases, from the start of the day on which the document is lodged, to apply in respect of that disposition of the asset.
Subdivision BA—Dispositions of assets before 1 July 2002
52FAA Application
This Subdivision applies only to dispositions of assets that took place before 1 July 2002.
52FA Disposal of assets in pre-pension years—not a member of a couple
(1)	If:
(a)	a person is not a member of a couple when the person claims a service pension, an income support supplement or a social security pension; and
(b)	the person disposes of an asset of the person during a pre-pension year of the person; and
(c)	the amount of that disposition, or the sum of that amount and of the amounts (if any) of other dispositions of assets previously made by the person during that pre-pension year, exceeds $10,000;
then, for the purposes of determining whether the pension is payable to the person, there is to be included in the value of the person’s assets for the period of 5 years that starts on the day on which the disposition took place:
(d)	the amount by which the sum of the amount of the first-mentioned disposition of assets and of the amounts (if any) of other dispositions of assets previously made by the person during that pre-pension year exceeds $10,000; or
(e)	the amount of the first-mentioned disposition;
whichever is the lesser amount.
Note 1:	For disposes of assets see section 52E.
Note 2:	For amount of disposition see section 52F.
Note 3:	If a pension is payable to the person, section 52G operates to determine the rate of payment and section 52FA ceases to apply to the person.
52G Disposal of assets in pension years—not a member of a couple
(1)	If, on or after 1 March 1986 and before 1 July 2002:
(a)	a person who is not a member of a couple has, during a pension year of the person, disposed of assets of the person; and
(b)	the amount of that disposition of assets, or the sum of that amount and of the amounts (if any) of other dispositions of assets previously made by the person during that pension year, exceeds $10,000;
then, for the purposes of this Act, there is to be included in the value of the person’s assets for the period of 5 years that starts on the day on which the disposition takes place:
(c)	the amount by which the sum of the amount of the first-mentioned disposition of assets, and of the amounts (if any) of other dispositions of assets previously made by the person during that pension year, exceeds $10,000; or
(d)	the amount of the first-mentioned disposition of assets;
whichever is the lesser amount.
52GA Disposal of assets in pre-pension years—members of couples
(1)	Subject to subsections (3), (4) and (5), if:
(a)	a person disposes of an asset; and
(b)	the person is a member of a couple when the person or the person’s partner claims a service pension, an income support supplement or a social security pension; and
(c)	the person disposes of the asset:
(i)	during a pre-pension year of the person; or
(ii)	if the person does not claim a service pension, an income support supplement or a social security pension but the person’s partner claims such a pension—during a pre-pension year of the person’s partner; and
(d)	the amount of that disposition, or the sum of that amount and the amounts (if any) of other dispositions of assets previously made by the person or the person’s partner during that pre-pension year, exceeds $10,000;
then, for the purposes of determining whether the pension is payable to the person:
(e)	there is to be included in the value of the person’s assets for the period of 5 years that starts on the day on which the disposition took place:
(i)	50% of the amount by which the sum of the amount of the first-mentioned disposition and of the amounts (if any) of other dispositions of assets previously made by the person or the person’s partner during that pre-pension year exceeds $10,000; or
(ii)	50% of the amount of the first-mentioned disposition;
whichever is the lesser amount; and
(f)	there is to be included in the value of the assets of the person’s partner for the period of 5 years that starts on the day on which the disposition took place:
(i)	50% of the amount by which the sum of the amount of the first-mentioned disposition and of the amounts (if any) of other dispositions of assets previously made by the person or the person’s partner during that pre-pension year exceeds $10,000; or
(ii)	50% of the amount of the first-mentioned disposition;
whichever is the lesser amount.
Note 1:	For disposes of assets see section 52E.
Note 2:	For amount of disposition see section 52F.
Note 3:	If a pension is payable to the person, section 52H operates to determine the rate of payment and section 52GA ceases to apply to the person.
(3)	If:
(a)	amounts are included under subsection (1) in the value of the assets of a person who is a member of a couple and in the value of the assets of the person’s partner because of a disposition of an asset by the person; and
(b)	the person and the person’s partner cease to be members of the same couple;
any amount that was included in the value of the person’s former partner’s assets because of that disposition is to be included in the value of the person’s assets.
(4)	If:
(a)	an amount is included under subsection (1) in the value of the assets of a person who is a member of a couple and in the value of the assets of the person’s partner because of a disposition of an asset by the person; and
(b)	the person dies;
an amount is not to be included in the value of the assets of the person’s partner because of that disposition.
(5)	If:
(a)	an amount is included under subsection (1) in the value of the assets of a person who is a member of a couple and in the value of the assets of the person’s partner because of a disposition of an asset by the person; and
(b)	the partner dies;
any amount that would, if the partner had not died, be included in the value of the partner’s assets because of the disposition is to be included in the value of the person’s assets.
52H Disposal of assets in pension years—members of couples
(1)	Subject to subsections (3) and (4), where, on or after 1 March 1986 and before 1 July 2002:
(a)	a person who is a member of a couple has disposed of assets of the person:
(i)	during a pension year of the person; or
(ii)	if the person is not receiving a service pension, income support supplement or a social security pension but the person’s partner is receiving such a pension—during a pension year of the person’s partner; and
(b)	the amount of that disposition of assets, or the sum of that amount and the amounts (if any) of other dispositions of assets previously made by the person or the person’s partner during that pension year, exceeds $10,000;
then, for the purposes of this Act:
(c)	there is to be included in the value of the person’s assets for the period of 5 years that starts on the day on which the disposition takes effect:
(i)	50% of the amount by which the sum of the amount of the first-mentioned disposition of the assets and of the amounts (if any) of other dispositions of assets previously made by the person or the person’s partner during the pension year exceeds $10,000; or
(ii)	50% of the amount of the first-mentioned disposition of assets;
whichever is the lesser amount; and
(d)	there is to be included in the value of the assets of the person’s partner for the period of 5 years that starts on the day on which the disposition takes place:
(i)	50% of the amount by which the sum of the amount of the first-mentioned disposition of the assets and of the amounts (if any) of other dispositions of assets previously made by the person or the person’s partner during the pension year exceeds $10,000; or
(ii)	50% of the amount of the first-mentioned disposition of assets;
whichever is the lesser amount.
(3)	Where:
(a)	amounts are included under subsection (1) in the value of a person’s assets who is a member of a couple and in the assets of the person’s partner because of a disposition of assets by the person; and
(b)	the person and the person’s partner cease to be members of the same couple;
any amount that was included in the value of the person’s former partner’s assets because of that disposition is to be included in the value of the person’s assets.
(4)	Where:
(a)	an amount is included under subsection (1) in the value of the assets of a person who is a member of a couple and the value of the assets of the person’s partner because the person has disposed of an asset; and
(b)	the person dies;
no amount is to be included in the value of the assets of the person’s partner because of that disposition.
(5)	Where:
(a)	an amount is included under subsection (1) in the value of the assets of a person who is a member of a couple and in the value of the assets of the person’s partner because the person has disposed of an asset; and
(b)	the person’s partner dies;
any amount that would, if the person’s partner had not died, be included in the value of the assets of the person’s partner because of the disposition is to be included in the value of the person’s assets.
52J Dispositions more than 5 years old to be disregarded
This Subdivision does not apply to a disposition of assets that took place:
(a)	more than 5 years before the time when:
(i)	the person who disposed of those assets; or
(ii)	if that person was, at the time when that disposition took place, a member of a couple—that person’s partner;
became eligible to receive a service pension or income support supplement; or
(b)	less than 5 years before the time referred to in paragraph (a) and before the time when the Commission is satisfied that the person who disposed of those assets could reasonably have expected that the person or the person’s partner would become eligible to receive a service pension or income support supplement.
Subdivision BB—Dispositions of assets on or after 1 July 2002
52JA Disposition of assets in tax year—individuals
Dispositions to which section applies
(1)	This section applies to a disposition (the relevant disposition) on or after 1 July 2002 of an asset by a person who is not a member of a couple at the time of the relevant disposition.
Increase in value of assets
(2)	If the amount of the relevant disposition, or the sum of that amount and the amounts (if any) of other dispositions of assets previously made by the person during the tax year in which the relevant disposition took place, exceeds $10,000, then, for the purposes of this Act, the lesser of the following amounts is to be included in the value of the person’s assets for the period of 5 years starting on the day on which the relevant disposition took place:
(a)	the amount of the relevant disposition;
(b)	the amount by which the sum of the amount of the relevant disposition and the amounts (if any) of other dispositions of assets previously made by the person during the tax year in which the relevant disposition took place, exceeds $10,000.
Previous joint dispositions
(3)	If, during the tax year in which the relevant disposition took place but before the time of the relevant disposition, the person was a member of a couple who jointly disposed of an asset, a reference in subsection (2) to the amounts (if any) of other dispositions of assets previously made by the person during that tax year includes a reference to one-half of the amount of the joint disposition.
52JB Dispositions of assets in 5 year period—individuals
Disposition to which section applies
(1)	This section also applies to a disposition (the relevant disposition) on or after 1 July 2002 of an asset by a person who is not a member of a couple at the time of the relevant disposition.
Increase in value of assets
(2)	If:
(a)	the sum of the amount of the relevant disposition and the amounts of any previous dispositions of assets made during the rolling period by the person;
less
(b)	the sum of any amounts included in the value of the person’s assets during the rolling period under section 52JA, 52JC or 52JD or any previous application or applications of this section;
exceeds $30,000, then, for the purposes of this Act, the lesser of the following amounts is to be included in the value of the person’s assets for the period of 5 years starting on the day on which the relevant disposition took place:
(c)	an amount equal to the excess;
(d)	the amount of the relevant disposition.
Previous joint dispositions
(3)	If, during the rolling period but before the time of the relevant disposition, the person was a member of a couple who jointly disposed of an asset, the reference in paragraph (2)(a) to the amounts of any previous dispositions during the rolling period of assets by the person includes a reference to one-half of the amount of the joint disposition.
Rolling period
(4)	For the purposes of this section, the rolling period is the period comprising the tax year in which the relevant disposition took place and such (if any) of the 4 previous tax years as occurred after 30 June 2002.
52JC Disposition of assets in tax year—members of couples
Dispositions to which section applies
(1)	If there is a disposition (the relevant disposition) on or after 1 July 2002 of an asset by:
(a)	a person who, at the time of the relevant disposition, is a member of a couple; or
(b)	the person referred to in paragraph (a) and the person who is, at that time, the partner of the person referred to in that paragraph;
subsection (2) has effect.
Increase in value of assets
(2)	Subject to this section, if the amount of the relevant disposition, or the sum of that amount and the amounts (if any) of other dispositions of assets previously made by the person, the person’s partner, or the person and the person’s partner, during the tax year in which the relevant disposition took place (whether before or after they became members of the couple), exceeds $10,000, then, for the purposes of this Act, the lesser of the following amounts is to be included in the value of the assets of the person and in the value of the assets of the partner for the period of 5 years starting on the day on which the relevant disposition took place:
(a)	one-half of the amount of the relevant disposition;
(b)	one-half of the amount by which the sum of the amount of the relevant disposition, and the amounts (if any) of other dispositions of assets previously made by the person, the partner, or the person and the partner, during the tax year in which the relevant disposition took place, exceeds $10,000.
Effect of ceasing to be member of couple
(3)	If, after the disposition referred to in paragraph (1)(a), the person and the person’s partner cease to be members of the same couple:
(a)	no amount is to be included after the cessation in the value of the assets of the former partner because of that disposition; and
(b)	any amount that would, apart from this subsection, have been so included is to be included in the value of the assets of the person.
Effect of death of person
(4)	If, after the disposition referred to in paragraph (1)(a), the person dies, no amount is to be included in the value of the assets of the person’s partner because of that disposition.
Effect of death of partner
(5)	If, after the disposition referred to in paragraph (1)(a), the person’s partner dies, any amount that, if the partner had not died, would have been included in the value of the assets of the partner because of that disposition is to be included in the value of the assets of the person.
52JD Disposition of assets in 5 year period—members of couples
Dispositions to which section applies
(1)	If there is a disposition (the relevant disposition) on or after 1 July 2002 of an asset by:
(a)	a person who, at the time of the relevant disposition, is a member of a couple; or
(b)	the person referred to in paragraph (a) and the person who is, at that time, the partner of the person referred to in that paragraph;
subsection (2) has effect.
Increase in value of assets
(2)	Subject to this section, if:
(a)	the sum of the amount of the relevant disposition and the amounts of any previous dispositions of assets made during the rolling period by the person, the person’s partner or the person and the person’s partner;
less
(b)	the sum of any amounts included in the value of the assets of the person or of the partner during the rolling period under section 52JA, 52JB or 52JC or any previous application or applications of this section;
exceeds $30,000, then, for the purposes of this Act, the lesser of the following amounts is to be included in the value of the assets of the person and in the value of the assets of the partner for the period of 5 years starting on the day on which the relevant disposition took place:
(c)	an amount equal to one-half of the excess;
(d)	one-half of the amount of the relevant disposition.
Effect of ceasing to be member of couple
(3)	If, after the disposition referred to in paragraph (1)(a), the person and the person’s partner cease to be members of the same couple:
(a)	no amount is to be included after the cessation in the value of the assets of the former partner because of that disposition; and
(b)	any amount that would, apart from this subsection, have been so included is to be included in the value of the assets of the person.
Effect of death of person
(4)	If, after the disposition referred to in paragraph (1)(a), the person dies, no amount is to be included in the value of the assets of the person’s partner because of that disposition.
Effect of death of partner
(5)	If, after the disposition referred to in paragraph (1)(a), the person’s partner dies, any amount that, if the partner had not died, would have been included in the value of the assets of the partner because of that disposition is to be included in the value of the assets of the person.
Rolling period
(6)	For the purposes of this section, the rolling period is the period comprising the tax year in which the relevant disposition took place and such (if any) of the 4 previous tax years as occurred after 30 June 2002.
52JE Certain dispositions to be disregarded
This Subdivision does not apply to a disposition of assets that took place:
(a)	more than 5 years before the time when:
(i)	the person who disposed of those assets; or
(ii)	if that person was, at the time when that disposition took place, a member of a couple—that person’s partner;
became eligible to receive a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment; or
(b)	less than 5 years before the time referred to in paragraph (a) and before the time when the Commission is satisfied that the person who disposed of those assets could reasonably have expected that the person or the person’s partner would become eligible to receive a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment.
Subdivision C—Provisions relating to special residences and special residents
52KA Application of Subdivision to granny flat residents
This Subdivision applies to a granny flat resident only if the resident acquired or retained the person’s granny flat interest in the person’s principal home on or after 22 August 1990.
52L Basis for different treatment
This Subdivision’s operation on a special resident depends on:
(a)	whether the resident is:
(i)	not a member of a couple; or
(ii)	a member of an ordinary couple; or
(iii)	a member of an illness separated couple; or
(iv)	a member of an ordinary couple with different principal homes; and
(b)	the resident’s entry contribution; and
(c)	the resident’s extra allowable amount.
52M Entry contribution
(1)	A special resident’s entry contribution is:
(a)	if the resident is not a member of a couple—the resident’s individual residence contribution; or
(b)	if the resident is a member of a couple, shares the resident’s principal home with the resident’s partner and is not a member of an illness separated couple—an amount equal to 50% of the resident’s individual residence contribution and of the partner’s individual residence contribution; or
(c)	if the resident is a member of an illness separated couple—the resident’s individual residence contribution; or
(d)	if:
(i)	the resident is a member of an ordinary couple with different principal homes; and
(ii)	the principal home of the resident’s partner is not a special residence;
the resident’s individual residence contribution; or
(e)	if:
(i)	the resident is a member of an ordinary couple with different principal homes; and
(ii)	the principal home of the resident’s partner is also a special residence;
an amount equal to 50% of the resident’s individual residence contribution and of the partner’s individual residence contribution.
(1A)	A special resident’s entry contribution is the resident’s individual residence contribution plus the amount paid, or agreed to be paid, for the resident’s current right (if any) to share the resident’s principal home with a partner if:
(a)	the resident was a member of a couple at the time when the resident took up residence in the retirement village or granny flat; and
(b)	the resident has ceased to be a member of a couple.
(1B)	A special resident’s entry contribution is the resident’s individual residence contribution if:
(a)	the resident was a member of a couple at the time when the sale leaseback agreement was entered into; and
(b)	the resident has ceased to be a member of a couple.
(1C)	For the purposes of this Division, the individual residence contribution is:
(a)	for a retirement village resident—the total amount paid, or agreed to be paid, for the resident’s current right to live in the retirement village; and
(b)	for a granny flat resident—the total amount paid, or agreed to be paid, for the resident’s current right to live in the granny flat; and
(c)	for a sale leaseback resident—the deferred payment amount.
Note:	For deferred payment amount see section 5MB.
(1D)	For the purposes of paragraph (1C)(b):
(a)	the total amount paid to obtain a person’s current right to live in a granny flat is the amount equal to the value of the person’s granny flat interest; and
(b)	the value of a person’s granny flat interest is:
(i)	unless subparagraph (ii) applies—the amount paid, or agreed to be paid, for the interest; or
(ii)	if the Commission considers that, for any special reason in any particular case, that value should be another amount—that other amount.
(2)	An amount that is rent or a residential care charge for the purposes of this Act is to be disregarded in applying subsections (1), (1A) and (1B).
Note:	For residential care charge, see subsection 5N(1).
52N Extra allowable amount
Retirement village residence taken up before 12 June 1989
(1)	If a retirement village resident became entitled to take up residence in the retirement village before 12 June 1989, the resident’s extra allowable amount is:
(a)	if the resident is not a member of a couple—$64,000; or
(b)	if the resident is a member of an illness separated couple—$64,000; or
(c)	in any other case—$32,000.
Retirement village residence taken up on or after 12 June 1989
(2)	If a retirement village resident became entitled to take up residence in the retirement village on or after 12 June 1989, the resident’s extra allowable amount is:
(a)	if the resident is not a member of a couple—the amount that, as at the time when the person becomes entitled to take up that residence, is the difference between the single property owner AVL and the single non-property owner AVL; or
(b)	if the resident is a member of an illness separated couple—the amount that, as at the time when the person becomes entitled to take up that residence, is the difference between the single AVL and the single non-property owner AVL; or
(c)	in any other case—the amount that, as at the time when the person becomes entitled to take up that residence, is the difference between the partnered property owner AVL and the partnered non-property owner AVL.
Granny flat residence
(2A)	A granny flat resident’s extra allowable amount is:
(a)	if the resident is not a member of a couple—the amount that, as at the time when the resident becomes entitled to the granny flat interest, is the difference between the pension single property owner AVL and the pension single non-property owner AVL; or
(b)	if the resident is a member of an illness separated couple—the amount that, as at the time when the resident becomes entitled to the granny flat interest, is the difference between the pension single property owner AVL and the pension single non-property owner AVL; or
(c)	in any other case—the amount that, as at the time when the resident becomes entitled to the granny flat interest, is the difference between the pension partnered property owner AVL and the pension partnered non-property owner AVL.
Sale leaseback home
(2B)	A sale leaseback resident’s extra allowable amount is:
(a)	if the resident is not a member of a couple—the amount that, as at the time when the sale leaseback agreement is entered into, is the difference between the pension (single) property owner AVL and the pension (single) non-property owner AVL; or
(b)	if the resident is a member of an illness separated couple—the amount that, as at the time when the sale leaseback agreement is entered into, is the difference between the pension (single) property owner AVL and the pension (single) non-property owner AVL; or
(c)	in any other case—the amount that, as at the time when the sale leaseback agreement is entered into, is the difference between the pension (partnered) property owner AVL and the pension (partnered) non-property owner AVL.
(3)	For the purposes of this section, a person becomes entitled to take up residence in a retirement village when the person becomes entitled to take up residence in a retirement village pursuant to the agreement under which the person’s current right to live in the retirement village arises.
(4)	In this section, pension “single” property owner AVL, pension “single” non-property owner AVL, pension “partnered” property owner AVL and pension “partnered” non-property owner AVL have the same meaning as in Division 18.
52P Renegotiation of retirement village agreement
If a person who has a right to live in a retirement village under an agreement enters into a new agreement under which the person obtains a right to live in the retirement village, then, for the purposes of this Division, the total amount paid, or agreed to be paid, for the person’s current right to live in the retirement village is the sum of the following amounts:
(a)	the total amount paid under the new agreement for that right;
(b)	so much (if any) of:
(i)	any amount paid under an earlier agreement to obtain a right for the person to live in the retirement village; and
(ii)	any amount that was, or would have been, payable to the person upon the termination of an earlier agreement;
as ought, in the Commission’s opinion, to be attributed to the cost of the person’s current right to live in the retirement village.
52Q Residents who are not members of a couple
(1)	This section applies to a special resident who is not a member of a couple.
Entry contribution more than extra allowable amount
(2)	Where:
(a)	this section applies to a special resident; and
(b)	the person’s entry contribution was more than the extra allowable amount;
the person is to be taken, for the purposes of this Act, to be a property owner.
Entry contribution equal to or below extra allowable amount
(3)	Where:
(a)	this section applies to a special resident; and
(b)	the person’s entry contribution was equal to or less than the extra allowable amount;
then, for the purposes of this Act:
(c)	the person is to be taken not to have a right or interest in relation to the person’s principal home; and
(d)	the person’s assets are to be taken to include an asset the value of which is equal to the amount of the person’s entry contribution; and
(e)	subsection 52(1) and sections 52G, 52JA and 52JB do not apply to an asset that the person is, because of paragraph (d) of this subsection, to be taken to have.
(4)	Subsection (3) applies:
(a)	whether or not the person actually has any right or interest in the person’s principal home; and
(b)	whatever the value of any right or interest that the person does have in the person’s principal home.
52R Members of couples
(1)	This section applies to a special resident if:
(a)	the resident is a member of a couple; and
(b)	the resident shares the person’s principal home with the resident’s partner.
Entry contribution more than extra allowable amount
(2)	Where:
(a)	this section applies to a special resident; and
(b)	the person’s entry contribution was more than the extra allowable amount;
the person is to be taken, for the purposes of this Act, to be a property owner.
Entry contribution equal to or below extra allowable amount
(3)	Where:
(a)	this section applies to a special resident; and
(b)	the person’s entry contribution was equal to or less than the extra allowable amount;
then, for the purposes of this Act:
(c)	the person is to be taken not to have a right or interest in relation to the person’s principal home; and
(d)	the person’s assets are to be taken to include an asset the value of which is equal to the amount of the person’s entry contribution; and
(e)	subsection 52(1) and section 52H do not apply to an asset that the person is, because of paragraph (d) of this subsection, to be taken to have.
(4)	Subsection (3) applies:
(a)	whether or not the person actually has any right or interest in the person’s principal home; and
(b)	whatever the value of any right or interest that the person does have in the person’s principal home.
52S Members of illness separated couple (both in special residences)
(1)	This section applies to a special resident if:
(a)	the resident is a member of an illness separated couple; and
(b)	the principal home of the resident’s partner is also a special residence.
Both entry contributions above extra allowable amount
(2)	Where:
(a)	this section applies to a special resident; and
(b)	the person’s entry contribution, and the entry contribution of the person’s partner, were each more than the extra allowable amount concerned;
then, for the purposes of this Act:
(c)	the person is to be taken to be a property owner; and
(d)	any right or interest of the person in the principal home of the person’s partner is to be disregarded in calculating the actual value of the person’s assets; and
(e)	any right or interest of the person’s partner in his or her principal home, or in the person’s principal home, is to be disregarded in calculating the actual value of the partner’s assets.
Both entry contributions equal to or below extra allowable amount
(3)	Where:
(a)	this section applies to a special resident; and
(b)	the person’s entry contribution, and the entry contribution of the person’s partner, were each equal to or less than the extra allowable amount concerned;
then, for the purposes of this Act:
(c)	the person is to be taken not to have a right or interest in relation to the person’s principal home; and
(d)	the person’s assets are to be taken to include an asset the value of which is equal to the amount of the person’s entry contribution; and
(e)	subsection 52(1) and section 52H do not apply to the asset that the person is, because of paragraph (d) of this subsection, taken to have.
(4)	Subsection (3) applies:
(a)	whether or not the person actually has any right or interest in the person’s principal home; and
(b)	whatever the value of any right or interest that the person does have in the person’s principal home.
Person’s entry contribution above extra allowable amount/partner’s entry contribution equal to or below extra allowable amount
(5)	Where:
(a)	this section applies to a special resident; and
(b)	the person’s entry contribution was more than the extra allowable amount; and
(c)	the person’s partner’s entry contribution was equal to or less than the extra allowable amount;
the following provisions apply for the purposes of the application of this Act to the person and to the person’s partner:
(d)	the person is to be taken to be a property owner;
(e)	both the person, and the person’s partner, are taken not to have a right or interest in relation to the partner’s principal home;
(ea)	the assets of the person’s partner are taken to include an asset whose value is equal to the amount of the partner’s entry contribution;
(eb)	subsection 52(1) and section 52H do not apply to the asset that the person’s partner is, because of paragraph (ea), taken to have;
(f)	any right or interest of the person’s partner in the person’s principal home is to be disregarded in calculating the actual value of the partner’s assets;
(g)	the assets value limit for the person and the person’s partner is to be taken to be $237,500.
Note:	The amount in paragraph (g) is adjusted annually (see section 59J).
(6)	Subsection (5) applies:
(a)	whether or not the person’s partner actually has any right or interest in the partner’s principal home; and
(b)	whatever the value of any right or interest that the partner does have in the partner’s principal home.
52T Members of illness separated couple (partner not in special residence and partner property owner)
(1)	This section applies to a special resident if:
(a)	the resident is a member of an illness separated couple; and
(b)	the principal home of the resident’s partner is not a special residence; and
(c)	the right or interest of the resident’s partner in the partner’s principal home is to be disregarded because of paragraph 52(1)(b).
Entry contribution more than extra allowable amount
(2)	Where:
(a)	this section applies to a special resident; and
(b)	the person’s entry contribution was more than the extra allowable amount;
then:
(c)	for the purposes of this Act, the person is to be taken to be a property owner; and
(d)	any right or interest of the person in the principal home of the person’s partner referred to in paragraph (1)(c) is to be disregarded in calculating the actual value of the person’s assets for the purposes of this Act; and
(e)	any right or interest of the person’s partner in the person’s principal home is also to be disregarded in calculating the actual value of the assets of the person’s partner for the purposes of this Act.
Entry contribution equal to or below extra allowable amount
(3)	Where:
(a)	this section applies to a special resident; and
(b)	the person’s entry contribution was equal to or less than the extra allowable amount;
the following provisions apply for the purposes of the application of this Act to the person and to the person’s partner:
(c)	both the person, and the person’s partner, are taken not to have a right or interest in relation to the person’s principal home;
(ca)	the person’s assets are taken to include an asset whose value is equal to the amount of the person’s entry contribution;
(cb)	subsection 52(1) and section 52H do not apply to the asset that the person is, because of paragraph (ca), taken to have;
(d)	any right or interest of the person in the principal home of the person’s partner referred to in paragraph (1)(c) is to be disregarded in calculating the actual value of the person’s assets;
(e)	the assets value limit of the person and the person’s partner is to be taken to be $237,500.
Note:	The amount in paragraph (e) is adjusted annually (see section 59J).
(4)	Subsection (3) applies:
(a)	whether or not the person actually has any right or interest in the person’s principal home; and
(b)	whatever the value of any right to interest that the person does have in the person’s principal home.
52U Members of illness separated couple (partner not in special residence and partner not property owner)
(1)	This section applies to a special resident if:
(a)	the resident is a member of an illness separated couple; and
(b)	the principal home of the resident’s partner is not a special residence; and
(c)	the resident’s partner does not have a right or interest in the partner’s principal home that is to be disregarded because of paragraph 52(1)(b).
Entry contribution more than extra allowable amount
(2)	Where:
(a)	this section applies to a special resident; and
(b)	the person’s entry contribution was more than the extra allowable amount;
the following provisions apply for the purposes of the application of this Act to the person and to the person’s partner:
(c)	the person is to be taken to be a property owner;
(d)	any right or interest of the person’s partner in the person’s principal home is to be disregarded in calculating the actual value of the partner’s assets;
(e)	the assets value limit of the person and the person’s partner is to be taken to be $237,500.
Note:	The amount in paragraph (e) is adjusted annually (see section 59J).
(3)	Subsection (2) applies:
(a)	whether or not the person actually has any right or interest in the person’s principal home; and
(b)	whatever the value of any right or interest that the person does have in the person’s principal home.
Entry contribution equal to or below extra allowable amount
(4)	Where:
(a)	this section applies to a special resident; and
(b)	the person’s entry contribution was equal to or less than the extra allowable amount;
then, the following provisions apply for the purposes of the application of this Act to the person and to the person’s partner:
(c)	both the person, and the person’s partner, are to be taken not to have a right or interest in relation to the person’s principal home;
(d)	the person’s assets are to be taken to include an asset the value of which is equal to the amount of the person’s entry contribution;
(e)	subsection 52(1) and sections 52G, 52H, 52JA, 52JB, 52JC and 52JD do not apply to the asset that the person is, because of paragraph (d) of this subsection, taken to have.
52V Members of ordinary couple with different principal homes (both in special residences)
(1)	This section applies to a special resident if:
(a)	the resident is a member of an ordinary couple with different principal homes; and
(b)	the principal home of the resident’s partner is also a special residence.
Both entry contributions above extra allowable amount
(2)	If:
(a)	this section applies to a special resident; and
(b)	the resident’s entry contribution, and the partner’s entry contribution, were each more than the extra allowable amount concerned;
then, for the purposes of this Act:
(c)	the resident and the partner are each to be taken to be property owners; and
(d)	the value of the resident’s principal home is taken to be the resident’s individual residence contribution; and
(e)	the value of the partner’s principal home is taken to be the partner’s individual residence contribution; and
(f)	any right or interest of the resident in:
(i)	the more valuable of the two principal homes; or
(ii)	where the value of the two principal homes is the same—the principal home of the younger person;
(the more valuable principal home) is to be disregarded in calculating the actual value of the resident’s assets; and
(g)	any right or interest of the partner in the more valuable principal home is to be disregarded in calculating the actual value of the partner’s assets; and
(h)	the assets of the person whose principal home is not the more valuable principal home are to be taken to include an asset the value of which is equivalent to the amount of that person’s entry contribution.
Both entry contributions equal to or below extra allowable amount
(3)	If:
(a)	this section applies to a special resident; and
(b)	the resident’s entry contribution, and the partner’s entry contribution, were each less than or equal to the extra allowable amount concerned;
then, for the purposes of this Act:
(c)	the resident and the partner are each to be taken not to have a right or interest in relation to the resident’s principal home or the partner’s principal home; and
(d)	the resident’s assets are taken to include an amount equal to the resident’s individual residence contribution; and
(e)	the partner’s assets are taken to include an amount equal to the partner’s individual residence contribution.
(4)	Subsection (2) applies:
(a)	whether or not the resident actually has any right or interest in the resident’s principal home; and
(b)	whatever the value of any right or interest that the resident does have in the resident’s principal home; and
(c)	whether or not the partner actually has any right or interest in the partner’s principal home; and
(d)	whatever the value of any right or interest that the partner does have in the partner’s principal home.
52W Members of ordinary couple with different principal homes (partner not in special residence and partner property owner)
(1)	This section applies to a special resident if:
(a)	the resident is a member of an ordinary couple with different principal homes; and
(b)	the principal home of the resident’s partner is not a special residence; and
(c)	the right or interest of the resident’s partner in the partner’s principal home would, but for this section, be disregarded because of paragraph 52(1)(b).
(2)	If this section applies to a special resident, then, for the purposes of this Act:
(a)	the resident and the resident’s partner are each to be taken to have a right or interest in a principal home to which paragraph 52(1)(b) applies; and
(b)	the value of the resident’s principal home is to be taken to be the amount of the resident’s entry contribution; and
(c)	any right or interest of the resident in:
(i)	the more valuable of the two principal homes; or
(ii)	where the value of the two principal homes is the same—the principal home that is not a special residence;
(the more valuable principal home) is to be disregarded in calculating the actual value of the resident’s assets; and
(d)	any right or interest of the partner in the more valuable principal home is to be disregarded in calculating the actual value of the partner’s assets; and
(e)	the assets of the person whose principal home is not the more valuable principal home are to be taken to include an asset whose value is equivalent to the value of the less valuable principal home.
52X Members of ordinary couple with different principal homes (partner not in special residence and partner not property owner)
(1)	This section applies to a special resident if:
(a)	the resident is a member of an ordinary couple with different principal homes; and
(b)	the principal home of the resident’s partner is not a special residence; and
(c)	the partner does not have a right or interest in the partner’s principal home that is to be disregarded because of paragraph 52(1)(b).
Entry contribution above extra allowable amount
(2)	If:
(a)	this section applies to a special resident; and
(b)	the resident’s entry contribution was more than the amount that would be the extra allowable amount if the resident were not a member of a couple;
then, for the purposes of this Act, the resident and the partner are each to be taken to have a right or interest in a principal home to which paragraph 52(1)(b) applies.
Entry contribution equal to or below extra allowable amount
(3)	If:
(a)	this section applies to a special resident; and
(b)	the resident’s entry contribution was equal to or less than the amount that would be the extra allowable amount if the resident were not a member of a couple;
then, the following provisions apply for the purposes of the application of this Act to the resident and to the resident’s partner:
(c)	both the resident, and the partner, are to be taken not to have a right or interest in relation to the resident’s principal home; and
(d)	the resident’s assets are to be taken to include an asset whose value is equal to the amount of the resident’s entry contribution.
(4)	Subsection (3) applies:
(a)	whether or not the resident actually has any right or interest in the resident’s principal home; and
(b)	whatever the value of any right or interest that the resident does have in the resident’s principal home; and
(c)	whether or not the partner actually has any right or interest in the resident’s principal home; and
(d)	whatever the value of any right or interest that the partner does have in the resident’s principal home.
Subdivision D—Financial hardship
52Y Access to financial hardship rules
(1)	Where:
(a)	either:
(i)	a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment is not payable to a person because of the application of an assets test; or
(ii)	a person’s service pension rate, income support supplement rate or veteran payment rate is determined by the application of an assets test; and
(b)	either:
(i)	sections 48B and 48C (disposal of income) and 52G, 52H, 52JA, 52JB, 52JC and 52JD (disposal of assets) do not apply to the person; or
(ii)	the Commission determines in writing that the application of those sections to the person should, for the purposes of this section, be disregarded; and
(c)	the person, or the person’s partner, has an unrealisable asset; and
(d)	the person lodges, at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T, a written request that this section apply to the person; and
(e)	the Commission is satisfied that the person would suffer severe financial hardship if this section did not apply to the person;
the Commission must determine in writing that this section applies to the person.
Note:	For unrealisable asset see subsections 5L(11) and (12).
(2)	If a request is lodged under paragraph (1)(d), the Secretary:
(a)	must investigate the matters that the request relates to; and
(b)	must, when the investigation is complete, submit to the Commission for its consideration:
(i)	the request; and
(ii)	the evidence that the person who made the request provided in support of the request; and
(iii)	any documents that are relevant to the request and are under the Department’s control (including any evidence or documents relevant to the request that are obtained in the course of the investigation).
(3)	A determination under subsection (1) takes effect:
(a)	on the day on which the request under paragraph (1)(d) was lodged; or
(b)	if the Commission so determines in the special circumstances of the case—on a day not more than 6 months before the day referred to in paragraph (a).
52Z Application of financial hardship rules
Value of unrealisable asset to be disregarded
(1)	If section 52Y applies to a person, the value of:
(a)	any unrealisable asset of the person; and
(b)	any unrealisable asset of the person’s partner;
is to be disregarded in working out the person’s service pension rate, income support supplement rate or veteran payment rate.
Deduction from maximum payment rate
(2)	If section 52Y applies to a person, there is to be deducted from the person’s service pension maximum payment rate, income support supplement maximum payment rate or veteran payment maximum payment rate an amount equal to the person’s adjusted annual rate of ordinary income.
Adjusted annual rate of ordinary income
(3)	A person’s adjusted annual rate of ordinary income is an amount per year equal to the sum of:
(a)	the person’s annual rate of ordinary income (other than income from assets); and
(b)	the person’s annual rate of ordinary income from assets that are not assets tested; and
(c)	either:
(i)	the person’s annual rate of ordinary income from unrealisable assets; or
(ii)	the person’s notional annual rate of ordinary income from unrealisable assets;
whichever is the greater; and
(d)	an amount per year equal to $19.50 for each $250 of the value of the person’s assets (other than disregarded assets).
(3A)	In working out the ordinary income of a person for the purposes of subsection (3), the following payments and amounts are to be counted:
(a)	a payment of an instalment of pension under Part II or IV;
(b)	a payment of an instalment of a pension (other than a pension payable in respect of a child) payable because of subsection 4(6) or (8B) of the Veterans’ Entitlements (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 1986;
(d)	a payment (other than a payment referred to in paragraph (a) or (b)) that is a payment in respect of incapacity or death resulting from employment in connection with a war or war-like operations in which the Crown has been engaged;
(da)	a payment of compensation (other than a payment covered by paragraph (d)) to the extent that the payment is taken into account:
(i)	under Division 5A of Part II; or
(ii)	under section 74;
to reduce a pension payable to the person under Part II or IV, as the case requires;
(e)	a payment by way of allowance (other than loss of earnings allowance) under Part VI of this Act;
(f)	a payment, by a foreign country, of an allowance or annuity that is of a similar kind to decoration allowance payable under an instrument made under section 230C of the MRCA or to Victoria Cross allowance payable under section 230A of the MRCA;
(fa)	a payment under section 268AM of the MRCA (prisoner of war recognition supplement);
(g)	a payment of a weekly amount under section 68, 71 or 75 of the MRCA (permanent impairment);
(h)	a payment of a Special Rate Disability Pension under Part 6 of Chapter 4 of the MRCA;
(i)	if subsection 204(5) of the MRCA applies to a person—an amount per fortnight worked out under section 5I of this Act;
(ia)	a payment of an Additional Disablement Amount under Division 3A of Part 7 of Chapter 4 of the MRCA;
(ib)	if subsection 220C(5) of the MRCA applies to a person—an amount per fortnight, worked out under section 5IA of this Act;
(j)	a payment of a weekly amount mentioned in paragraph 234(1)(b) of the MRCA (including a reduced weekly amount because of a choice under section 236 of the MRCA) (wholly dependent partner payment).
Note 1:	Subsection 204(5) of the MRCA reduces a Special Rate Disability Pension by reference to amounts of Commonwealth superannuation that the person has received or is receiving.
Note 1A:	Subsection 220C(5) of the MRCA reduces an Additional Disablement Amount by reference to amounts of Commonwealth superannuation that the person has received or is receiving.
Note 2:	The payments and amounts referred to in this subsection would not be considered ordinary income elsewhere in this Act (see subsections 5H(1) and (8)).
Assets tested asset
(4)	For the purposes of subsection (3), an asset is not assets tested if the asset’s value is disregarded under subsection 52(1).
Notional annual rate of ordinary income from unrealisable assets
(5)	A person’s notional annual rate of ordinary income from unrealisable assets is:
(a)	the amount per year equal to 2.5% of the value of the person’s and the person’s partner’s unrealisable assets; or
(b)	the amount per year that could reasonably be expected to be obtained from a purely commercial application of the person’s and the person’s partner’s unrealisable assets;
whichever is the less.
(6)	Subsection (2) applies:
(a)	subject to subsection (8); and
(b)	despite the Rate Calculator and section 45S (calculation of rate of income support supplement).
(7)	Where:
(a)	a person has disposed of assets and section 52G, 52H, 52JA, 52JB, 52JC or 52JD applies to the disposition; and
(b)	the Commission has made a determination under subparagraph 52Y(1)(b)(ii) in relation to the disposition;
this section applies to the person as if the person had not disposed of the assets.
(8)	Where the sum of the rate of service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment that would, apart from this subsection, be payable to a person and the annual rate of income of the person exceeds the maximum payment rate, the rate so payable is to be reduced by the amount per year of the excess.
Subdivision E—Home equity access scheme
52ZAAA Home equity access scheme definitions
(1)	In this Subdivision, unless the contrary intention appears:
dispose of real assets has its ordinary meaning.
home equity access scheme advance payment: see section 52ZBA.
home equity access scheme advance payment period, for a person, means the period of 26 fortnights starting on the day in relation to which the person’s home equity access scheme advance payment was worked out under subsection 52ZBA(2).
maximum payment rate, in relation to a service pension or an income support supplement, means the rate worked out in relation to that pension or supplement at Step 4 of Method statement 1, Step 4 of Method statement 2 or Step 4 of Method statement 5, as the case may be, in Module A of the Rate Calculator.
nominated amount means the amount (if any) specified to be the nominated amount under paragraph 52ZD(1A)(b) or subsection 52ZE(1) (as the case may be).
real assets, in relation to a person or couple, means the real property (including the principal home) of the person or couple in Australia that is specified under paragraph 52ZD(1A)(a).
(2)	For the purposes of this Subdivision, a reference to a charge under section 52ZF includes a reference to a charge continued in force by subsection 52ZF(3) or paragraph 52ZG(2A)(b).
(3)	For the purposes of this Subdivision, a person is participating in the home equity access scheme if:
(a)	the person has made a request to participate in the scheme under section 52ZD; and
(c)	the person owes a debt to the Commonwealth under section 52ZC.
52ZA Eligibility for participation in home equity access scheme
Person not member of a couple
(1)	A person who is not a member of a couple is eligible to participate in the home equity access scheme if:
(a)	the person is receiving or is eligible for a service pension or income support supplement; and
(d)	the person has reached:
(i)	if the person is receiving or is eligible for service pension—pension age; or
(ii)	if the person is receiving or is eligible for income support supplement—qualifying age; and
(da)	the person is not bankrupt; and
(db)	the person is not subject to a personal insolvency agreement under Part X of the Bankruptcy Act 1966; and
(dc)	the Commission is satisfied that there is adequate and appropriate insurance in relation to the person’s real assets; and
(e)	either:
(i)	the Commission is satisfied that the value of the person’s real assets (after deduction of any nominated amount) is sufficient to secure the payment of any debt that may become payable to the Commonwealth under this Subdivision; or
(ii)	subsection (3) applies to the person; and
(f)	subsection (3A) does not apply to the person.
Note 2:	For real assets see subsection 52ZAAA(1).
Note 3:	For nominated amount, see subsection 52ZAAA(1).
Note 4:	For pension age see section 5QA.
Note 5:	For qualifying age see section 5Q.
Person member of a couple
(2)	A person who is a member of a couple is eligible to participate in the home equity access scheme if:
(a)	the person is receiving or is eligible for a service pension or income support supplement; and
(d)	the person:
(i)	is a veteran and has reached pension age; or
(ii)	is the partner of a veteran referred to in subparagraph (i); or
(iii)	is receiving or is eligible for an income support supplement and has reached qualifying age; and
(da)	the person is not bankrupt; and
(db)	the person is not subject to a personal insolvency agreement under Part X of the Bankruptcy Act 1966; and
(dc)	the Commission is satisfied that there is adequate and appropriate insurance in relation to the couple’s real assets; and
(e)	either:
(i)	the Commission is satisfied that the value of the couple’s real assets (after deduction of any nominated amount) is sufficient to secure the payment of any debt that may become payable to the Commonwealth under this Subdivision; or
(ii)	subsection (3) applies to both of the members of the couple; and
(f)	subsection (3A) does not apply to the person.
Note 2:	For real assets see subsection 52ZAAA(1).
Note 3:	For nominated amount, see subsection 52ZAAA(1).
Note 4:	For pension age see section 5QA.
Note 5:	For qualifying age see section 5Q.
Attributable stakeholder of a company or trust
(3)	This subsection applies to a person if:
(a)	either:
(i)	the person is an attributable stakeholder of a company or trust (within the meaning of Division 11A); or
(ii)	the person is a member of a couple and the other member of the couple is an attributable stakeholder of a company or trust (within the meaning of Division 11A); and
(b)	the company or trustee has given the Commonwealth a guarantee that the company or trustee will pay any debt that may become payable to the Commonwealth by the person under this Subdivision; and
(c)	the company’s or trustee’s liability under the guarantee is secured by a charge against specified real property of the company or trust in Australia; and
(d)	the Commission is satisfied that the value of the specified real property is sufficient to secure the payment of any amount that may become payable by the company or trustee under the guarantee; and
(e)	the Commission has, by writing, approved the guarantee and the charge.
Circumstances in which person ineligible
(3A)	This subsection applies to a person if:
(a)	both of the following apply:
(i)	the person has made a request to participate in the home equity access scheme under section 1136 of the Social Security Act;
(ii)	the scheme has not, since the person last made such a request, ceased to operate in relation to the person because of the effect of section 1141, 1141A, 1141B or 1142 of that Act; or
(b)	the person is receiving one of the following social security pensions under the Social Security Act:
(i)	an age pension;
(ii)	a disability support pension;
(iii)	a carer payment.
Note:	If paragraph (b) applies, the person may be qualified to participate in the home equity access scheme under the Social Security Act.
Value of real property
(4)	In working out the value of real property for the purposes of subparagraph (1)(e)(i) or (2)(e)(i) or paragraph (3)(d):
(a)	disregard section 52C; and
(b)	the Commission may take into account any charge or encumbrance over the property.
52ZB Effect of participation in home equity access scheme—pension rate
(1)	This section applies if:
(a)	a person is eligible to participate in the home equity access scheme; and
(b)	the person makes a request to participate under section 52ZD; and
(c)	the Commission is satisfied that the amount of any debt that becomes payable by the person to the Commonwealth under this Subdivision is readily recoverable.
(1A)	The rate of the pension payable to the person by operation of the scheme is to be:
(a)	if the pension will not be received in relation to a home equity access scheme advance payment period for the person:
(i)	1.5 multiplied by the maximum payment rate; or
(ii)	a lower rate nominated by the person; or
(b)	if the pension will be received in relation to a home equity access scheme advance period for the person:
(i)	the greater of the maximum payment rate and 1.5 multiplied by the maximum payment rate less any amounts of home equity access scheme advance payment received by the person in relation to the period; or
(ii)	a lower rate nominated by the person.
Note:	For the meaning of maximum payment rate, see subsection 52ZAAA(1).
(2)	The pension at the rate payable by operation of the scheme is payable on and from the day on which the request is lodged.
(3)	For the purposes of section 53A (fringe benefits), if but for the operation of the scheme the person would not have received a service pension or income support supplement, the person is to be taken to be a person who is not receiving a service pension or income support supplement.
(4)	For the purposes of Subdivision C of Division 12 (treatment benefits), if but for the operation of the scheme the person would not have received a service pension or income support supplement, the person is to be taken to be a person who is not receiving an age or invalidity service pension.
52ZBA Home equity access scheme advance payment
(1)	This section applies if a pension is payable to a person at a rate worked out under this Subdivision.
(2)	The person is eligible for an advance payment (a home equity access scheme advance payment) of the pension if:
(a)	the person makes a request for the advance payment under section 52ZEAA; and
(b)	the person has not received more than one home equity access scheme advance payment in relation to a home equity access scheme advance payment period commencing during the previous 26 fortnights.
(3)	The amount of the home equity access scheme advance payment is whichever is the least of the following amounts:
(a)	if the person has not received another home equity access scheme advance payment in relation to a home equity access scheme advance payment period that commenced during the previous 26 fortnights—0.5 multiplied by the maximum payment rate payable to the person on the day in relation to which the person’s rate of pension worked out under this Subdivision is to be paid as the home equity access scheme advance payment;
(b)	if the person has received another home equity access scheme advance payment (the previous amount) in relation to a home equity access scheme advance payment period that commenced during the previous 26 fortnights—0.5 multiplied by the maximum payment rate payable to the person on the day in relation to which the person’s rate of pension worked out under this Subdivision is to be paid as the home equity access scheme advance payment, less the previous amount;
(c)	the maximum loan available to the person under the home equity access scheme, less the amount of the debt owed by the person under section 52ZC;
(d)	the amount requested by the person.
(4)	A home equity access scheme advance payment is to be paid as soon as practicable after the request under section 52ZEAA is made.
(5)	This section applies despite section 79B.
Note:	Section 79B sets out other circumstances in which a person is eligible for an advance payment of an amount of pension.
52ZC Effect of participation in home equity access scheme—creation of debt
(1)	If the rate of the pension payable by operation of the home equity access scheme is more than the rate that would have been received by the person but for the operation of the scheme, the person owes a debt to the Commonwealth.
(3)	This is how to work out the amount of the debt owed by the person from time to time:
Method statement
Step 1.	Work out the sum of the amount of pension received by the person from time to time under the home equity access scheme: the result is the primary loan amount.
Step 1A.	Add to the primary loan amount the amount of any home equity access scheme advance payments received by the person: the result is the advance payment adjusted amount.
Step 2.	Take away from the advance payment adjusted amount the sum of the amount of pension (if any) that would have been received by the person but for the operation of the scheme: the result is the basic amount of debt.
Step 3.	Add to the basic amount of debt the amount of interest payable. The interest payable is compound interest at the rate fixed by the legislative instrument made under subsection 1135(4) of the Social Security Act 1991 and compounding fortnightly: the result is the amount of debt including interest.
Step 4.	Add to the amount of debt including interest the amount of any registration costs payable by the person under subsection 52ZL(4): the result is the total amount of debt.
Step 5.	From the total amount of debt take away any amount of the debt already paid to the Commonwealth: the result is the current amount of debt owed by the person.
52ZCA Effect of participation in home equity access scheme—maximum loan available
(1)	The maximum loan available to a person under the home equity access scheme is the amount worked out using the formula:
where:
age component amount means the amount that is specified in a determination under subsection 1135A(3) of the Social Security Act 1991 and that relates to:
(a)	if the person is not a member of a couple—the age the person turned on his or her last birthday; or
(b)	if the person is a member of a couple—the age the younger member of the couple turned on his or her last birthday.
value of real assets means:
(a)	if neither subparagraph 52ZA(1)(e)(ii) nor subparagraph 52ZA(2)(e)(ii) applied to the person when the person made his or her request to participate in the home equity access scheme—the value of the real assets (after deduction of any nominated amount); or
(b)	if subparagraph 52ZA(1)(e)(ii) or (2)(e)(ii) applied to the person when the person made his or her request to participate in the home equity access scheme—the value of the charge referred to in paragraph 52ZA(3)(c).
Note 1:	For real assets see subsection 52ZAAA(1).
Note 2:	For nominated amount see subsection 52ZAAA(1).
(2)	For the purposes of subsection (1), the following provisions have effect:
(a)	if, but for this paragraph, the value of real assets would be an amount that exceeds $10,000 but is not a multiple of $10,000, the value is to be taken to be the next lower amount that is a multiple of $10,000;
(b)	if, but for this paragraph, the value of real assets would be less than $10,000, the value is to be taken to be nil.
52ZD Need for a request to participate
(1)	A person who wants to participate in the home equity access scheme must make a request to participate in accordance with this section.
(1A)	A request under subsection (1) must:
(a)	specify any real property that is to be included in working out the value of real assets for the purposes of sections 52ZA and 52ZCA, or that is to be subject to a charge under section 52ZF; and
(b)	specify an amount (if any) to be the nominated amount for the purposes of this Subdivision; and
(c)	specify the rate of the pension (if any) nominated by the person for the purposes of subparagraph 52ZB(1A)(a)(ii) or (b)(ii).
(1B)	Paragraphs (1A)(a) and (b) do not apply if subparagraph 52ZA(1)(e)(ii) or (2)(e)(ii) applied to the person when the person made his or her request to participate in the home equity access scheme.
(2)	The request must be signed:
(a)	if the person is not a member of a couple—by the person; or
(b)	if the person is a member of a couple—by both members of the couple.
(3)	The request must be:
(a)	in writing; and
(b)	in a form approved by the Commission; and
(c)	lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
Restrictions on requests to participate
(4)	A person must not make a request if the person is already participating in the home equity access scheme.
52ZE Need for a request to later nominate or change nominated amount or rate of pension
(1)	A person who is participating in the home equity access scheme and who wants to:
(a)	nominate an amount to be the nominated amount for the purposes of this Subdivision; or
(b)	nominate a rate of pension for the purposes of subparagraph 52ZB(1A)(a)(ii) or (b)(ii); or
(c)	change the nominated amount earlier specified; or
(d)	change the rate of the pension earlier specified;
must make a request that specifies the nomination or change (as the case may be).
(1A)	Paragraphs (1)(a) and (c) do not apply if subparagraph 52ZA(1)(e)(ii) or (2)(e)(ii) applied to the person when the person made his or her request to participate in the home equity access scheme.
(2)	A request under subsection (1) must be signed:
(a)	if the person is not a member of a couple—by the person; or
(b)	if the person is a member of a couple—by both members of the couple.
(3)	The request must:
(a)	be in writing; and
(b)	be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
52ZEAA Need for a request for a home equity access scheme advance payment
(1)	A person who wants to receive a home equity access scheme advance payment must make a request for the payment in accordance with this section.
(2)	A request under subsection (1) must specify the amount of home equity access scheme advance payment requested.
Note:	There are limits to the amount that can be paid: see subsection 52ZBA(2).
(3)	The request must be signed:
(a)	if the person is not a member of a couple—by the person; or
(b)	if the person is a member of a couple—by both members of the couple; and
(4)	The request must be:
(a)	in writing; and
(b)	in a form approved by the Commission; and
(c)	be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
52ZEA Non-receipt of service pension or income support supplement
(1)	This section applies for the purposes of a provision (the relevant provision) of this or another Act if:
(a)	the relevant provision provides a benefit (whether the benefit is a pension, benefit, payment, supplement, subsidy, seniors health card or any other sort of benefit) to a person; and
(b)	in relation to that benefit, it is necessary to work out whether:
(i)	the person or another person is receiving or is not receiving a service pension or income support supplement or a particular kind of service pension; or
(ii)	the person or another person is a recipient or is not a recipient of a service pension or income support supplement or a particular kind of service pension; or
(iii)	a service pension or income support supplement, or a particular kind of service pension, is payable to the person or another person.
(2)	For the purposes of the relevant provision:
(a)	a person is taken not to be receiving a service pension or income support supplement or the particular kind of service pension; and
(b)	a person is taken not to be a recipient of a service pension or income support supplement or the particular kind of service pension; and
(c)	a service pension or income support supplement, or the particular kind of service pension, is taken not to be payable to the person;
merely because:
(d)	the person receives a service pension or income support supplement, or the kind of service pension, at a rate worked out under this Subdivision; or
(e)	a service pension or income support supplement, or the kind of service pension, is payable to the person at a rate worked out under this Subdivision.
(3)	Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to a person and a day if on that day:
(a)	the person is receiving a service pension or income support supplement at a rate worked out under this Subdivision; and
(b)	but for the operation of this Subdivision, the person would have been receiving that service pension or income support supplement at a rate greater than nil.
52ZF Existence of debt results in charge over real assets
Person not member of a couple
(1)	If a person who is not a member of a couple owes a debt to the Commonwealth under section 52ZC, the person’s real assets are subject to a charge in favour of the Commonwealth to secure the payment of the debt to the Commonwealth.
Person member of a couple
(2)	If:
(a)	a person who is a member of a couple owes a debt to the Commonwealth under section 52ZC; and
(b)	the person’s partner has signed the person’s request under subsection 52ZD(2);
the couple’s real assets are subject to a charge in favour of the Commonwealth to secure the payment of a debt to the Commonwealth.
(3)	If:
(a)	the home equity access scheme ceases to operate in relation to a person because of the effect of section 52ZJ, 52ZJA, 52ZJB or 52ZK; and
(b)	at the time the scheme ceases to operate, the person owes a debt to the Commonwealth because of the person’s participation in the scheme;
any charge in favour of the Commonwealth under subsection (1) or (2) of this section continues in relation to the real assets until the debt is repaid or recovered.
Note 1:	Section 52ZJ provides that a person ceases to participate in the scheme if the debt owed by the person exceeds the maximum loan available.
Note 1A:	Section 52ZJA provides that the scheme ceases to operate in relation to a person if the Commission is satisfied that the person ceases to be eligible to participate in the scheme and the Commission determines that the scheme ceases to operate in relation to the person.
Note 1B:	Section 52ZJB provides that the scheme ceases to operate in relation to a person if the person starts to receive certain social security pensions.
Note 2:	Section 52ZK provides for a person to withdraw from the scheme.
(4)	This section does not apply if subparagraph 52ZA(1)(e)(ii) or (2)(e)(ii) applied to the person when the person made his or her request to participate in the home equity access scheme.
52ZG Debt not to be recovered until after death
(1)	The Commonwealth is not entitled to recover a debt under section 52ZC from a person until after the person’s death.
(2)	In the following circumstances, the Commonwealth is not entitled to recover the debt until after the person’s death and after:
(a)	if:
(i)	the person was a member of a couple at the time of death; and
(ii)	the person’s partner survives the person; and
(iii)	an amount of bereavement payment is payable to the partner because of the person’s death;
the end of the bereavement period; or
(b)	if:
(i)	the person was a member of a couple at the time of death; and
(ii)	the person’s partner survives the person; and
(iii)	the person’s partner has the use of the assets or part of the assets that are subject to a charge; and
(iv)	the partner has reached:
(A)	if the partner is a veteran—pension age; or
(B)	if the partner is not a veteran—the age that would be his or her pension age if he or she were a veteran;
the death of the partner.
Note:	For pension age see section 5QA.
(2A)	In relation to the period between the person’s death and the time of recovery of the debt by the Commonwealth:
(a)	compound interest continues to accrue, and forms part of the debt, in accordance with Step 3 of the Method statement in subsection 52ZC(3); and
(b)	the charge in favour of the Commonwealth under section 52ZF continues in relation to the real assets until the debt is recovered.
(3)	This section is subject to section 52ZH (enforcement of charge if assets change hands).
(4)	If the Commission determines in writing that the debt is to be recovered before the events referred to in subsection (1) or (2), the debt may be so recovered in spite of those subsections.
52ZH Enforcement of charge
(1)	If:
(a)	real assets of a person are subject to a charge under section 52ZF; and
(b)	any of those real assets cease to be real assets of the person; and
(c)	the person receives proceeds from the sale or other disposal of the real assets;
the Commonwealth may recover from the person, out of those proceeds, the whole or part of the debt secured by the charge.
(2)	If:
(a)	real assets of a person are subject to a charge under section 52ZF; and
(b)	any of those real assets are disposed of to another person (in this section called the new owner);
the Commonwealth may, subject to subsection (3), enforce the charge against those real assets.
(2A)	For the purposes of paragraph (2)(b), it does not matter whether:
(a)	the disposal of the real assets is by way of sale, transfer, gift, will or otherwise; or
(b)	the disposal is by the person referred to in paragraph (2)(a) or any other person.
(3)	The Commonwealth may not enforce the charge against the real assets if the new owner is a genuine purchaser for value without notice of the charge.
52ZJ Person ceases to participate in home equity access scheme if debt exceeds maximum loan available
If:
(a)	a person is participating in the home equity access scheme; and
(b)	the debt owed by the person under section 52ZC exceeds the maximum loan available to the person under the scheme;
the scheme ceases to operate in relation to the person on the first day on which the debt exceeds the maximum loan available.
Note 1:	The maximum loan available is worked out by using the formula set out in subsection 52ZCA(1).
Note 2:	For repayment or recovery of the debt owed by the person see section 52ZKA and section 52ZG.
52ZJA Commission may cease person’s participation in home equity access scheme
(1)	If:
(a)	a person is participating in the home equity access scheme; and
(b)	the Commission is satisfied that the person ceases to be eligible to participate in the scheme;
the Commission may, in writing, determine that the scheme ceases to operate in relation to the person. The scheme ceases to operate in relation to the person at the beginning of the first pension period for the service pension or income support supplement being paid to the person that begins after the determination is made.
Note:	For repayment or recovery of the debt owed by the person, see sections 52ZG and 52ZKA.
(2)	The Commission must give the person notice of the determination.
(3)	A determination under subsection (1) is not a legislative instrument.
52ZJB Person ceases to participate in home equity access scheme if person starts receiving certain social security pensions
If:
(a)	a person is eligible for, but is not receiving, a service pension or income support supplement; and
(b)	the person is participating in the home equity access scheme; and
(c)	the person starts to receive one of the following social security pensions under the Social Security Act:
(i)	an age pension;
(ii)	a disability support pension;
(iii)	a carer payment;
the scheme ceases to operate in relation to the person under this Act at the beginning of the instalment period (within the meaning of the Social Security Act) for the pension being paid to the person during which the person starts to receive the social security pension.
Note 1:	For repayment or recovery of the debt owed by the person, see sections 52ZG and 52ZKA.
Note 2:	The person may be qualified to participate in the home equity access scheme under the Social Security Act when the scheme ceases to operate in relation to the person under this section.
52ZK Person withdraws from home equity access scheme
(1)	If a person who is participating in the home equity access scheme makes a request to withdraw from the scheme, the scheme ceases to operate in relation to the person on the day on which the request is lodged.
Note:	For repayment or recovery of the debt owed by the person, see sections 52ZG and 52ZKA.
(2)	A request under subsection (1) must be signed:
(a)	if the person is not a member of a couple—by the person; or
(b)	if the person is a member of a couple—by both members of the couple.
(3)	The request must:
(a)	be in writing; and
(b)	be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(4)	A request lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
52ZKA Repayment or recovery of debt after home equity access scheme ceases to operate
(1)	The debt owed by a person under section 52ZC, at the time the home equity access scheme ceases to operate in relation to the person by operation of section 52ZJ, 52ZJA, 52ZJB or 52ZK, may be repaid by the person at any time.
Note 1:	Section 52ZJ provides that a person ceases to participate in the scheme if the debt owed by the person exceeds the maximum loan available.
Note 1A:	Section 52ZJA provides that the scheme ceases to operate in relation to a person if the Commission is satisfied that the person ceases to be eligible to participate in the scheme and the Commission determines that the scheme ceases to operate in relation to the person.
Note 1B:	Section 52ZJB provides that the scheme ceases to operate in relation to a person if the person starts to receive certain social security pensions.
Note 2:	Section 52ZK provides for a person to withdraw from the scheme.
(2)	If the debt owed by the person is not repaid by the person at the time the scheme ceases to operate in relation to the person, compound interest continues to accrue, and forms part of the debt, in accordance with Step 3 of the Method statement in subsection 52ZC(3), until the debt is repaid or recovered.
(3)	If the debt is not repaid under subsection (1) of this section, subject to section 52ZG the Commonwealth is entitled to recover the debt.
Note:	Section 52ZG provides that a debt cannot be recovered from a person until after the person’s death.
52ZL Registration of charge
(1)	If real assets are subject to a charge under section 52ZF, the Commission may lodge a notice in writing of the charge with the appropriate officer of the State or Territory in which the real assets are situated.
(2)	The appropriate officer may register the charge as if the Commission’s notice were an instrument of charge or encumbrance duly executed under the laws in force in the State or Territory.
(3)	The Secretary may require the person whose real assets are subject to the charge to execute an instrument relating to the registration of the charge.
(4)	If the Commonwealth incurs costs associated with:
(a)	the registration of the charge; or
(b)	the registration of the discharge of the charge;
those costs are payable by the person whose real assets are subject to the charge.
52ZM Manner of enforcement of charge
If a charge against real assets is enforceable under this Subdivision, the Commission may enforce the charge against those real assets or against part of those real assets in any manner that the Commission determines in writing.
52ZMAA No negative equity guarantee
When adjusted value of assets is exceeded
(1)	If:
(a)	a person owes a debt to the Commonwealth under section 52ZC; and
(b)	neither subparagraph 52ZA(1)(e)(ii) nor subparagraph 52ZA(2)(e)(ii) applied to the person when the person made the request to participate in the home equity access scheme; and
(c)	either of the following events occur:
(i)	a person seeks to repay the debt;
(ii)	the Commonwealth seeks to recover the debt; and
(d)	at the time the event occurs, the amount of the debt exceeds the adjusted value of the person’s real assets; and
(e)	subsection (3) of this section does not apply;
then:
(f)	the Commonwealth is not entitled to recover an amount (the excess amount) that exceeds the adjusted value of the person’s real assets; and
(g)	the debt to the Commonwealth, and the charge securing the debt, is discharged to the extent of the excess amount by force of this paragraph.
Note:	For the meaning of real assets, see subsection 52ZAAA(1).
When adjusted value of charge is exceeded
(2)	If:
(a)	a person owes a debt to the Commonwealth under section 52ZC; and
(b)	subparagraph 52ZA(1)(e)(ii) or (2)(e)(ii) applied to the person when the person made the request to participate in the home equity access scheme; and
(c)	either of the following events occur:
(i)	a person seeks to repay the debt;
(ii)	the Commonwealth seeks to recover the debt; and
(d)	at the time the event occurs, the amount of the debt exceeds the adjusted value of the real property specified for the purposes of paragraph 52ZA(3)(c); and
(e)	subsection (3) of this section does not apply;
then:
(f)	the Commonwealth is not entitled to recover an amount (the excess amount) that exceeds the adjusted value of the specified real property; and
(g)	the debt to the Commonwealth, and the charge securing the debt, is discharged to the extent of the excess amount by force of this paragraph.
Circumstances in which excess amount may be recovered and debt is not discharged
(3)	This subsection applies if the Commission is satisfied that:
(a)	a charge or encumbrance over the person’s real assets or the specified real property is created or increased by, or with the express consent of, the person after the person begins to participate in the home equity access scheme which affects, or will affect, the ability of the Commonwealth to recover the debt owed under section 52ZC; or
(b)	the person engaged in fraud, or made a misrepresentation, in relation to the person’s participation in the home equity access scheme, including in relation to the person’s real assets or the specified real property.
(4)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, make guidelines to be complied with in making a decision for the purposes of subsection (3).
Meaning of adjusted value
(5)	The adjusted value:
(a)	for real assets—means the amount worked out by:
(i)	working out the market value of the assets in accordance with an instrument made under subsection (6); and
(ii)	adjusting that value in accordance with the instrument; and
(b)	for real property—means the amount worked out by:
(i)	working out the market value of the property in accordance with an instrument made under subsection (6); and
(ii)	adjusting that value in accordance with the instrument.
(6)	The Commission must, by legislative instrument, determine:
(a)	one or more methods for working out the market value of real assets for the purposes of subparagraph (5)(a)(i); and
(b)	adjustments to be made to the market value of real assets for the purposes of subparagraph (5)(a)(ii); and
(c)	one or more methods for working out the market value of real property for the purposes of subparagraph (5)(b)(i); and
(d)	adjustments to be made to the market value of real property for the purposes of subparagraph (5)(b)(ii).
(7)	Without limiting subsection (6), the determination may:
(a)	specify that adjustments are to be made in relation to specified kinds of charges or encumbrances over real assets or real property; and
(b)	determine different methods to be used and adjustments to be made in different circumstances.
Subdivision F—Commutation of asset-test exempt income stream
52ZMA Debt resulting from commutation of asset-test exempt income stream contrary to subsection 5JA(2), 5JB(2) or 5JBA(2)
(1)	If:
(a)	a person is provided with an asset-test exempt income stream for a period beginning on the first day in respect of which an income stream payment was made to the person and ending on the last day in respect of which an income stream payment was made to the person; and
(b)	during the whole or any part of that period an amount of service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment has been paid to the person; and
(c)	the whole or any part of the income stream is commuted contrary to the contract or governing rules under which the income stream was provided on the commencement day of the income stream; and
(d)	the amount of service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment that has been paid to the person for that period is more than the amount that would have been payable to the person for that period had the income stream not been an asset-test exempt income stream for the purposes of this Act for that period;
an amount worked out under subsection (2) is a debt due to the Commonwealth.
(2)	That amount is an amount equal to the difference between the amount of service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment that has been paid to the person during the period worked out under subsection (3) and the amount that would have been so paid to the person had the income stream not been an asset-test exempt income stream for the purposes of this Act for that period.
(3)	The period for the purposes of subsection (2) is the period that:
(a)	began on:
(i)	the day 5 years before the day the income stream was commuted; or
(ii)	the commencement day of the income stream; or
(iii)	20 September 2001;
whichever is the latest; and
(b)	ended when the income stream was commuted.
(4)	In working out the asset value of the income stream had the income stream not been an asset-test exempt income stream for the period referred to in subsection (2), assume that the income stream was asset tested from the commencement day and that the asset value of the income stream is depleted in accordance with the formula in subsection 52A(4).
(5)	Subject to subsection (6), if:
(a)	an asset-test exempt income stream (the old income stream) is commuted, in whole or in part; and
(b)	part, but not the whole, of the payment resulting from the commutation of the old income stream (the commutation payment) is transferred directly to the purchase of another asset-test exempt income stream (the new income stream);
the following paragraphs have effect for the purposes of this section:
(c)	the new income stream is taken to have the same commencement day as:
(i)	the old income stream; or
(ii)	if the old income stream was one of a succession of asset-test exempt income streams—the first income stream in that succession;
(d)	if the old income stream was not one of a succession of asset-test exempt income streams—income stream payments made under the old income stream are taken to have been made under the new income stream;
(e)	if the old income stream was one of a succession of asset-test exempt income streams—income stream payments made under any of the income streams in that succession are taken to have been made under the new income stream.
(6)	Subsection (5) does not apply if the amount used in the purchase of the new income stream represents the whole of the commutation payment remaining after the use of part of the commutation payment in the payment of:
(a)	a hardship amount; or
(b)	superannuation contributions surcharge that the person is liable to pay in his or her capacity as purchaser of the old income stream.
(7)	Subject to subsection (8), if:
(a)	the whole of an asset-test exempt income stream is commuted; and
(b)	no part of the payment resulting from the commutation of the income stream is transferred directly to the purchase of another asset-test exempt income stream; and
(c)	the commuted income stream was one of a succession of asset-test exempt income streams;
the following paragraphs have effect for the purposes of this section:
(d)	the commuted income stream is taken to have had the same commencement day as the first income stream in that succession;
(e)	income stream payments made under any of the income streams in that succession (other than the commuted income stream) are taken to have been, at the time when they were made, payments under the commuted income stream.
(8)	Subsection (7) does not apply if the whole of the payment resulting from the commutation of the old income stream is used in the payment of:
(a)	a hardship amount; or
(b)	superannuation contributions surcharge that the person is liable to pay in his or her capacity as purchaser of the old income stream.
(9)	For the purposes of this section:
(a)	2 or more asset-test exempt income streams constitute a succession of asset-test exempt income streams if each income stream (other than the first of those income streams to be provided) has been funded by means of the payment, or part of the payment, resulting from the commutation of another of those income streams; and
(b)	an income stream is the first income stream in a succession of income streams if it is the first of those income streams to be provided.
(10)	In this section:
hardship amount has the same meaning as in subsection 5JA(7).
(11)	This section does not apply to an income stream in relation to which a determination under subsection 5JA(5), 5JB(4) or 5JBA(11) is in force.
	Division 11A — Means test treatment of private companies and private trusts
Subdivision A—Introduction
52ZN Simplified outline
The following is a simplified outline of this Division:
•	This Division sets up a system for the attribution to individuals of the assets and income of private companies and private trusts (sections 52ZZK and 52ZZR).
•	Attribution starts on 1 January 2002.
•	For an asset or income to be attributed to an individual:
(a)	the company must be a designated private company or the trust must be a designated private trust (sections 52ZZA and 52ZZB); and
(b)	the company must be a controlled private company in relation to the individual or the trust must be a controlled private trust in relation to the individual (sections 52ZZC and 52ZZH); and
(c)	the individual must be an attributable stakeholder of the company or trust (section 52ZZJ).
•	A company or trust will be a controlled private trust or a controlled private company if the individual passes a control test or a source test.
•	An individual will not be an attributable stakeholder of a trust if the trust is a concessional primary production trust in relation to the individual.
•	The asset deprivation rules and the income deprivation rules are modified if attribution happens.
52ZO Definitions
In this Division, unless the contrary intention appears:
actively involved with a primary production enterprise has the meaning given by section 52ZW.
actual transfer, in relation to property or services, means a transfer of the property or services other than a transfer that is taken to have been made because of subsection 52ZV(1), (3) or (4).
adjusted net primary production income (in Subdivision K) has the meaning given by section 52ZZZL.
adjusted net value (in Subdivision K) has the meaning given by section 52ZZZK.
arm’s length amount, in relation to an actual transfer of property or services to a company or a trust, means the amount that the company or trust could reasonably be expected to have been required to pay to obtain the property or the services concerned from the transferor under a transaction where the parties to the transaction are dealing with each other at arm’s length in relation to the transaction.
asset attribution percentage has the meaning given by section 52ZZJ.
associate has the meaning given by section 52ZQ.
attributable stakeholder has the meaning given by section 52ZZJ.
attribution period has the meaning given by section 52ZZQ.
business partnership means a partnership within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
child: without limiting who is a child of a person for the purposes of this Division, each of the following is the child of a person:
(a)	an adopted child, step-child or foster-child of the person;
(b)	someone who is a child of the person within the meaning of the Family Law Act 1975.
company has the same meaning as in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
concessional primary production trust has the meaning given by section 52ZZZF.
constituent document, in relation to a company, means:
(a)	the memorandum and articles of association of the company; or
(b)	any rules or other documents constituting the company or governing its activities.
control includes control as a result of, or by means of, trusts, agreements, arrangements, understandings and practices, whether or not having legal or equitable force and whether or not based on legal or equitable rights.
controlled private company has the meaning given by section 52ZZC.
controlled private trust has the meaning given by section 52ZZH.
decision-making principles means decision-making principles under section 52ZZZQ.
derivation period has the meaning given by section 52ZZP.
designated private company has the meaning given by section 52ZZA.
designated private trust has the meaning given by section 52ZZB.
director includes any person (by whatever name called) occupying the position of a director of a company.
entity means any of the following:
(a)	an individual;
(b)	a company;
(c)	a trust;
(d)	a business partnership;
(e)	a corporation sole;
(f)	a body politic.
group includes:
(a)	one entity alone; or
(b)	a number of entities, even if they are not in any way associated with each other or acting together.
income attribution percentage has the meaning given by section 52ZZJ.
interest in a share has the meaning given by section 52ZZG.
majority voting interest, in relation to a company, has the meaning given by section 52ZS.
primary production enterprise means a business in Australia that consists of primary production.
property includes money.
relative, in relation to a person, has the meaning given by section 52ZP.
scheme means:
(a)	any agreement, arrangement, understanding, promise or undertaking, whether express or implied and whether or not enforceable, or intended to be enforceable, by legal proceedings; or
(b)	any scheme, plan, proposal, action, course of action or course of conduct, whether there are 2 or more parties or only one party involved.
services includes any benefit, right (including a right in relation to, and an interest in, real or personal property), privilege or facility and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, includes a benefit, right, privilege, service or facility that is, or is to be, provided under:
(a)	an arrangement for or in relation to:
(i)	the performance of work (including work of a professional nature), whether with or without the provision of property; or
(ii)	the provision of, or of the use of facilities for, entertainment, recreation or instruction; or
(iii)	the conferring of benefits, rights or privileges for which remuneration is payable in the form of a royalty, tribute, levy or similar exaction; or
(b)	a contract of insurance; or
(c)	an arrangement for or in relation to the lending of money.
share includes stock.
spouse includes, in relation to a person who is a member of a couple (as defined by section 5E), the other member of the couple.
subsidiary has the same meaning as in the Corporations Act 2001.
sufficiently influenced, in relation to a company, has the meaning given by section 52ZR.
transfer:
(a)	in relation to property—includes dispose of (whether by assignment, declaration of trust or otherwise) or provide; and
(b)	in relation to services—includes allow, confer, give, grant, perform or provide.
trust means a person in the capacity of trustee or, as the case requires, a trust estate.
trustee has the same meaning as in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
underlying transfer, in relation to a transfer of property or services to an entity, means:
(a)	if that transfer was an actual transfer—the actual transfer; or
(b)	if that transfer was taken to have been made because of subsection 52ZV(1)—the actual transfer referred to in that subsection; or
(c)	if that transfer was taken to have been made because of subsection 52ZV(3)—the actual transfer referred to in paragraph 52ZV(3)(b); or
(d)	if that transfer was taken to have been made because of subsection 52ZV(4)—the actual transfer referred to in paragraph 52ZV(4)(c).
voting power has the meaning given by section 52ZZE.
52ZP Relatives
(1)	For the purposes of this Division, a relative, in relation to a person (the first person), means any of the following:
(a)	the spouse of the first person;
(b)	a parent, grandparent, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, first cousin, second cousin or lineal descendant of the first person;
(c)	the spouse of a person covered by paragraph (b);
(d)	a parent, grandparent, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, first cousin, second cousin or lineal descendant of the spouse of the first person;
(e)	the spouse of a person covered by paragraph (d);
(f)	a child of a person covered by any of the preceding paragraphs.
(2)	For the purposes of this section, if one person is the child of another person because of the definition of child in section 52ZO, relationships traced to or through the person are to be determined on the basis that the person is the child of the other person.
52ZQ Associates
(1)	For the purposes of this Division, in determining:
(a)	whether a trust is a designated private trust; or
(b)	whether a company is a controlled private company in relation to an individual; or
(c)	whether a trust is a controlled private trust in relation to an individual; or
(d)	whether a trust is a concessional primary production trust in relation to an individual;
the following are associates of an individual:
(e)	a relative of the individual;
(f)	an entity who, in matters relating to the trust or company:
(i)	acts, or is accustomed to act; or
(ii)	under a contract or an arrangement or understanding (whether formal or informal), is intended or expected to act;
in accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of:
(iii)	the individual; or
(iv)	the individual and another entity who is an associate of the individual because of another paragraph of this subsection;
(g)	an entity that is a declared associate of the individual (see subsection (2));
(h)	a business partner of the individual or a business partnership in which the individual is a business partner;
(i)	if a business partner of the individual is an individual—the spouse or a child of that business partner;
(j)	a trustee of a trust, where:
(i)	the individual; or
(ii)	another entity that is an associate of the individual because of another paragraph of this subsection;
benefits or is capable (whether by the exercise of a power of appointment or otherwise) of benefiting under the trust, either directly or through any interposed companies, business partnerships or trusts;
(k)	a company, where the company is sufficiently influenced by:
(i)	the individual; or
(ii)	another entity that is an associate of the individual because of another paragraph of this subsection; or
(iii)	another company that is an associate of the individual because of another application of this paragraph; or
(iv)	2 or more entities covered by the preceding subparagraphs;
(l)	a company, where a majority voting interest in the company is held by:
(i)	the individual; or
(ii)	the entities that are associates of the individual because of any of the preceding paragraphs of this subsection; or
(iii)	the individual and the entities that are associates of the individual because of any of the preceding paragraphs of this subsection.
Declared associate
(2)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, determine that each entity included in a specified class of entities is taken to be a declared associate of an individual for the purposes of this section.
(3)	A determination under subsection (2) has effect accordingly.
52ZR When a company is sufficiently influenced by an entity
For the purposes of this Division, a company is sufficiently influenced by an entity or entities if the company, or its directors:
(a)	are accustomed or under an obligation (whether formal or informal); or
(b)	might reasonably be expected;
to act in accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of the entity or entities.
52ZS Majority voting interest in a company
For the purposes of this Division, an entity or entities hold a majority voting interest in a company if the entity or entities are in a position to cast, or control the casting of, more than 50% of the maximum number of votes that might be cast at a general meeting of the company.
52ZT Entitled to acquire
For the purposes of this Division, an entity is entitled to acquire anything that the entity is absolutely or contingently entitled to acquire, whether because of any constituent document of a company, the exercise of any right or option or for any other reason.
52ZU Transfer of property or services
(1)	A reference in this Division to the transfer of property or services to a trust includes a reference to the transfer of such property or services by way of the creation of the trust.
(2)	For the purposes of this Division, if an entity acquires property that did not previously exist, the property is taken to have existed immediately before the acquisition and to have been transferred by the entity who created the property.
(3)	For the purposes of this Division, property or services are taken to have been transferred to an entity if the property or services have been applied for the benefit of, or in accordance with the directions of, the entity.
(4)	Without limiting the generality of subsection (3), a reference in that subsection to the application of property or services for the benefit of an entity includes a reference to the application of property or services in the discharge, in whole or in part, of a debt due by the entity.
52ZV Constructive transfers of property or services to an entity
(1)	For the purposes of this Division, if an entity (the prime entity) causes another entity to actually transfer property or services to a third entity, the prime entity is taken to have transferred the property or services (instead of the other entity).
(2)	Subsection (1) does not limit the operation of subsection (3).
(3)	If, under a scheme:
(a)	an entity (the scheme entity) actually transfers property or services to another entity; and
(b)	property or services are actually transferred to a third entity at a particular time otherwise than by the scheme entity;
the Commission may, for the purposes of this Division, treat the property or services mentioned in paragraph (b) as having been transferred by the scheme entity to the third entity (instead of by any other entity) at that time to such extent as the Commission considers reasonable.
(4)	If:
(a)	an individual transfers property or services to an entity (the interposed entity), being a company, a business partnership or a trust; and
(b)	a winding-up event occurs in relation to the interposed entity; and
(c)	an actual transfer of property or services is made to another entity (the ultimate transferee) at a particular time as a consequence of the interposed entity being wound-up or ceasing to exist;
the Commission may, for the purposes of this Division, treat the property or services mentioned in paragraph (c) as having been transferred by the individual to the ultimate transferee (instead of by any other entity) at that time to such extent as the Commission considers reasonable.
(5)	For the purposes of this section, each of the following events is a winding-up event in relation to a company:
(a)	the company passes a resolution for its winding-up;
(b)	an order is made for the winding-up of the company;
(c)	any similar event.
(6)	For the purposes of this section, a winding-up event occurs in relation to a business partnership if the business partnership ceases to exist for the purposes of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
(7)	For the purposes of this section, a winding-up event occurs in relation to a trust if:
(a)	the trust commences to be wound-up; or
(b)	the trust ceases to exist for the purposes of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
52ZW Active involvement with a primary production enterprise
For the purposes of this Division, an individual is taken to have been actively involved with a primary production enterprise if, and only if, the individual:
(a)	has contributed a significant part of his or her labour to the development of the enterprise; or
(b)	has undertaken educational studies or training in a field that, in the opinion of the Commission, is relevant to the development or management of the enterprise.
52ZX Power to veto decisions of a trustee
For the purposes of this Division, if the decisions of a trustee are subject to the consent of an entity, the entity is taken to be able to veto the decisions of the trustee.
52ZY Extra-territorial operation
(1)	This Division extends to acts, omissions, matters and things outside Australia.
(2)	Disregard subsection (1) in determining whether a provision of this Act (other than this Division) extends to acts, omissions, matters and things outside Australia.
52ZZ Application to things happening before commencement
The use of the present tense in a provision of this Division does not imply that the provision does not apply to things happening before the commencement of this Division.
Subdivision B—Designated private companies
52ZZA Designated private companies
(1)	For the purposes of this Division, a company is a designated private company at a particular time if:
(a)	the company satisfies at least 2 of the following conditions in relation to the last financial year that ended before that time:
(i)	the consolidated revenue for the financial year of the company and its subsidiaries is less than $25 million, or any other amount prescribed by regulations made for the purposes of paragraph 45A(2)(a) of the Corporations Act 2001;
(ii)	the value of the consolidated gross assets at the end of the financial year of the company and its subsidiaries is less than $12.5 million, or any other amount prescribed by regulations made for the purposes of paragraph 45A(2)(b) of the Corporations Act 2001;
(iii)	the company and its subsidiaries have fewer than 50, or any other number prescribed by regulations made for the purposes of paragraph 45A(2)(c) of the Corporations Act 2001, employees at the end of the financial year; or
(b)	the company came into existence after the end of the last financial year that ended before that time; or
(c)	the company is a declared private company (see subsection (2));
and the company is not an excluded company (see subsection (5)).
Declared private company
(2)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, declare that each company included in a specified class of companies is a declared private company for the purposes of this section.
(3)	A declaration under subsection (2) has effect accordingly.
Excluded companies
(5)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, declare that each company included in a specified class of companies is an excluded company for the purposes of this section.
(6)	A declaration under subsection (5) has effect accordingly.
Definitions
(8)	In this section:
consolidated revenue has the same meaning as in section 45A of the Corporations Act 2001.
financial year, in relation to a company, means:
(a)	a period of 12 months beginning on 1 July; or
(b)	if some other period is the company’s tax year—that other period.
value of consolidated gross assets has the same meaning as in section 45A of the Corporations Act 2001.
Subdivision C—Designated private trusts
52ZZB Designated private trusts
(1)	For the purposes of this Division, a trust is a designated private trust unless:
(a)	all of the following conditions are satisfied:
(i)	the trust is a fixed trust;
(ii)	the units in the trust are held by 50 or more persons;
(iii)	the trust was not created, continued in existence or operated under a scheme that was entered into or carried out for the sole or dominant purpose of enabling any individual or individuals to avoid the application of this Division and/or Part 3.18 of the Social Security Act; or
(b)	the trust is a complying superannuation fund (see subsection (3)); or
(c)	the trust is an excluded trust (see subsection (4)).
(2)	For the purposes of subparagraph (1)(a)(ii), an individual and his or her associates are taken to be one person.
Complying superannuation funds
(3)	For the purposes of this section, a fund is a complying superannuation fund at a particular time if:
(a)	that time occurs during a particular tax year of the fund; and
(b)	under section 45 of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993, the fund is a complying superannuation fund for the purposes of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 in relation to that tax year.
Excluded trusts
(4)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, declare that each trust included in a specified class of trusts is an excluded trust for the purposes of this section.
(5)	The declaration has effect accordingly.
Definitions
(7)	In this section:
fixed trust means a trust where persons have fixed entitlements to all of the income and corpus of the trust.
income means income within the ordinary meaning of that expression.
unit, in relation to a trust, includes a beneficial interest, however described, in the property or income of the trust.
Subdivision D—Controlled private companies
52ZZC Controlled private companies
(1)	For the purposes of this Division, a company is a controlled private company in relation to an individual if the company is a designated private company and:
(a)	the individual passes the control test set out in subsection (2); or
(b)	the individual passes the source test set out in subsection (3).
Control test
(2)	For the purposes of this section, an individual passes the control test in relation to a company if:
(a)	the aggregate of:
(i)	the direct voting interests in the company that the individual holds; and
(ii)	the direct voting interests in the company held by associates of the individual;
is 50% or more; or
(b)	the aggregate of:
(i)	the direct control interests in the company that the individual holds; and
(ii)	the direct control interests in the company held by associates of the individual;
is 15% or more; or
(c)	the company is sufficiently influenced by:
(i)	the individual; or
(ii)	an associate of the individual; or
(iii)	2 or more entities covered by the preceding subparagraphs; or
(d)	the individual (either alone or together with associates) is in a position to exercise control over the company.
Source test
(3)	For the purposes of this section, an individual passes the source test in relation to a company if:
(a)	the individual has transferred property or services to the company after 7.30 pm, by standard time in the Australian Capital Territory, on 9 May 2000; and
(b)	the underlying transfer was made for no consideration or for a consideration less than the arm’s length amount in relation to the underlying transfer.
No double counting
(4)	In calculating the aggregate referred to in paragraph (2)(a), a direct voting interest held because of subsection 52ZZD(2) is not to be counted under subparagraph (2)(a)(i) to the extent to which it is calculated by reference to a direct voting interest in the company that is taken into account under subparagraph (2)(a)(ii).
(5)	In calculating the aggregate referred to in paragraph (2)(b), a direct control interest held because of subsection 52ZZF(4) is not to be counted under subparagraph (2)(b)(i) to the extent to which it is calculated by reference to a direct control interest in the company that is taken into account under subparagraph (2)(b)(ii).
52ZZD Direct voting interest in a company
(1)	An entity holds a direct voting interest in a company at a particular time equal to the percentage of the voting power in the company that the entity is in a position to control at that time.
(2)	If:
(a)	an entity holds a direct voting interest (including a direct voting interest that is taken to be held because of one or more previous applications of this subsection) in a company (the first level company); and
(b)	the first level company holds a direct voting interest in another company (the second level company);
the entity is taken to hold a direct voting interest in the second level company equal to the percentage worked out using the formula:
where:
first level percentage means the percentage of the direct voting interest held by the entity in the first level company.
second level percentage means the percentage of the direct voting interest held by the first level company in the second level company.
52ZZE Voting power
(1)	A reference in this Subdivision to the voting power in a company is a reference to the total rights of shareholders to vote, or participate in any decision-making, concerning any of the following:
(a)	the making of distributions of capital or profits of the company to its shareholders;
(b)	the constituent document of the company;
(c)	any variation of the share capital of the company;
(d)	any appointment of a director of the company.
(2)	A reference in this Subdivision to control of the voting power in a company is a reference to control that is direct or indirect, including control that is exercisable as a result of or by means of arrangements or practices:
(a)	whether or not having legal or equitable force; and
(b)	whether or not based on legal or equitable rights.
(3)	If the percentage of total rights to vote or participate in decision-making differs as between different types of voting or decision-making, the highest of those percentages applies for the purposes of this section.
(4)	If a company:
(a)	is limited both by shares and by guarantee; or
(b)	does not have a share capital;
this section has effect as if the members or policy holders of the company were shareholders in the company.
52ZZF Direct control interest in a company
(1)	An entity holds a direct control interest in a company at a particular time equal to the percentage of the total paid-up share capital of the company in which the entity holds an interest at that time.
(2)	An entity also holds a direct control interest in a company at a particular time equal to the percentage that the entity holds, or is entitled to acquire, at that time of the total rights to distributions of capital or profits of the company to its shareholders on winding-up.
(3)	An entity also holds a direct control interest in a company at a particular time equal to the percentage that the entity holds, or is entitled to acquire, at that time of the total rights to distributions of capital or profits of the company to its shareholders, otherwise than on winding-up.
(4)	If:
(a)	an entity holds a particular type of direct control interest (including a direct control interest that is taken to be held because of one or more previous applications of this subsection) in a company (the first level company); and
(b)	the first level company holds the same type of direct control interest in another company (the second level company);
the entity is taken to hold that type of direct control interest in the second level company equal to the percentage worked out using the formula:
where:
first level percentage means the percentage of the direct control interest held by the entity in the first level company.
second level percentage means the percentage of the direct control interest held by the first level company in the second level company.
52ZZG Interest in a share
(1)	This section applies for the purpose of working out the percentage of a company’s total paid-up share capital in which an entity holds an interest.
(2)	Subject to this section, for the purposes of this Subdivision, an entity holds an interest in a share if the entity has any legal or equitable interest in the share.
(3)	For the purposes of this Subdivision, an entity is taken to hold an interest in a share if:
(a)	the entity has entered into a contract to purchase the share; or
(b)	the entity has a right (otherwise than because of having an interest under a trust) to have the share transferred to the entity or to the entity’s order (whether the right is exercisable presently or in the future and whether or not on the fulfilment of a condition); or
(c)	the entity has a right to acquire the share, or an interest in the share, under an option (whether the right is exercisable presently or in the future and whether or not on the fulfilment of a condition); or
(d)	the entity is otherwise entitled to acquire the share or an interest in the share; or
(e)	the entity is entitled (otherwise than because of having been appointed as a proxy or representative to vote at a meeting of members of the company or of a class of its members) to exercise or control the exercise of a right attached to the share.
(4)	Subsection (3) does not, by implication, limit subsection (2).
(5)	An entity is taken to hold an interest in a share even if the entity holds the interest in the share jointly with another entity.
(6)	For the purpose of determining whether an entity holds an interest in a share, it is immaterial that the interest cannot be related to a particular share.
(7)	An interest in a share is not to be disregarded only because of:
(a)	its remoteness; or
(b)	the manner in which it arose; or
(c)	the fact that the exercise of a right conferred by the interest is, or is capable of being made, subject to restraint or restriction.
Subdivision E—Controlled private trusts
52ZZH Controlled private trusts
(1)	For the purposes of this Division, a trust is a controlled private trust in relation to an individual if the trust is a designated private trust and:
(a)	the individual passes the control test set out in subsection (2); or
(b)	the individual passes the source test set out in subsection (3).
Control test
(2)	For the purposes of this section, the individual passes the control test in relation to a trust if:
(a)	the individual, or an associate of the individual (other than an associate covered by paragraph 52ZQ(1)(j)), is the trustee, or any of the trustees, of the trust; or
(b)	a group in relation to the individual was able to remove or appoint the trustee, or any of the trustees, of the trust; or
(c)	a group in relation to the individual was able to vary the trust deed or to veto the decisions of the trustee; or
(ca)	it could reasonably be expected that the trustee of the trust would make an application of the corpus or income of the trust to the individual if the individual could not meet his or her reasonable costs of living; or
(d)	the aggregate of:
(i)	the beneficial interests in the corpus or income of the trust held by the individual (whether directly or indirectly); and
(ii)	the beneficial interests in the corpus or income of the trust held by associates of the individual (whether directly or indirectly);
is 50% or more; or
(da)	either or both of the following apply:
(i)	the individual is eligible to receive an application of the corpus or income of the trust;
(ii)	one or more of the individual’s associates are eligible to receive an application of the corpus or income of the trust;
and the aggregate number of entities covered by subparagraphs (i) and (ii) is 50% or more of the total number of entities eligible to receive an application of the corpus or income of the trust; or
(e)	a group in relation to the individual had the power (by means of the exercise by the group of any power of appointment or revocation or otherwise) to obtain, with or without the consent of any other entity, the beneficial enjoyment of the corpus or income of the trust; or
(f)	a group in relation to the individual was able in any manner whatsoever, whether directly or indirectly, to control the application of the corpus or income of the trust; or
(g)	a group in relation to the individual was capable under a scheme of gaining the enjoyment or the control referred to in paragraph (e) or (f); or
(h)	a trustee of the trust was accustomed or under an obligation (whether formally or informally) or might reasonably be expected to act in accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of a group in relation to the individual.
(2A)	For the purposes of paragraph (2)(da), an entity is eligible to receive an application of the corpus or income of the trust if the trustee of the trust has a discretion to make an application of the corpus or income of the trust to the entity.
(2B)	For the purposes of applying paragraph (2)(da) at a particular time, subparagraph (2)(da)(i) is taken to apply at that particular time to the individual if the individual was eligible to receive an application of the corpus or income of the trust at any time during:
(a)	the period beginning at the start of the tax year in which that particular time occurs and ending at that particular time; or
(b)	the preceding tax year.
(2C)	For the purposes of applying paragraph (2)(da) at a particular time, subparagraph (2)(da)(ii) is taken to apply at that particular time to an entity that is an associate of the individual at that particular time if:
(a)	the entity was eligible to receive an application of the corpus or income of the trust at any time during:
(i)	the period beginning at the start of the tax year in which that particular time occurs and ending at that particular time; or
(ii)	the preceding tax year; and
(b)	the entity was an associate of the individual at the time the entity was so eligible.
(2D)	For the purposes of applying paragraph (2)(da) at a particular time, in working out the total number of entities eligible to receive an application of the corpus or income of the trust, take into account an entity that was eligible to receive an application of the corpus or income of the trust at any time during:
(a)	the period beginning at the start of the tax year in which that particular time occurs and ending at that particular time; or
(b)	the preceding tax year.
(2E)	No paragraph of subsection (2) limits any other paragraph of that subsection.
Source test
(3)	For the purposes of this section, an individual passes the source test in relation to a trust if:
(a)	the individual has transferred property or services to the trust after 7.30 pm, by standard time in the Australian Capital Territory, on 9 May 2000; and
(b)	the underlying transfer was made for no consideration or for a consideration less than the arm’s length amount in relation to the underlying transfer.
Group
(4)	A reference in this section to a group in relation to an individual is a reference to:
(a)	the individual acting alone; or
(b)	an associate of the individual acting alone; or
(c)	the individual and one or more associates of the individual acting together; or
(d)	2 or more associates of the individual acting together.
Income
(5)	In this section:
income means income within the ordinary meaning of that expression.
52ZZI Interest in a trust
(1)	For the purposes of this Subdivision, if an entity:
(a)	has entered into a contract to purchase a beneficial interest in the corpus or income of a trust; or
(b)	has a right, otherwise than by reason of holding an interest in a trust, to have such an interest transferred to the entity or to the entity’s order (whether the right is exercisable presently or in the future) and whether on the fulfilment of a condition or not; or
(c)	has the right to acquire such an interest under an option (whether the right is exercisable presently or in the future) and whether on the fulfilment of a condition or not; or
(d)	is otherwise entitled to acquire such an interest;
the entity is taken to hold that interest in the trust.
(2)	An entity is taken to hold an interest in the corpus or income of a trust even if the entity holds the interest jointly with another entity.
(3)	An interest in the corpus or income of a trust is not to be disregarded only because of:
(a)	its remoteness; or
(b)	the manner in which it arose; or
(c)	the fact that the exercise of a right conferred by the interest is, or is capable of being made, subject to restraint or restriction.
(4)	In this section:
income means income within the ordinary meaning of that expression.
Subdivision F—Attributable stakeholders and attribution percentages
52ZZJ Attributable stakeholder, asset attribution percentage and income attribution percentage
Company
(1)	For the purposes of this Division, if a company is a controlled private company in relation to an individual:
(a)	the individual is an attributable stakeholder of the company unless the Commission otherwise determines; and
(b)	if the individual is an attributable stakeholder of the company—the individual’s asset attribution percentage in relation to the company is:
(i)	100%; or
(ii)	if the Commission determines a lower percentage in relation to the individual and the company—that lower percentage; and
(c)	if the individual is an attributable stakeholder of the company—the individual’s income attribution percentage in relation to the company is:
(i)	100%; or
(ii)	if the Commission determines a lower percentage in relation to the individual and the company—that lower percentage.
Trust
(2)	For the purposes of this Division, if:
(a)	a trust is a controlled private trust in relation to an individual; and
(b)	the trust is not a concessional primary production trust in relation to the individual (see section 52ZZZF);
then:
(c)	the individual is an attributable stakeholder of the trust unless the Commission otherwise determines; and
(d)	if the individual is an attributable stakeholder of the trust—the individual’s asset attribution percentage in relation to the trust is:
(i)	100%; or
(ii)	if the Commission determines a lower percentage in relation to the individual and the trust—that lower percentage; and
(e)	if the individual is an attributable stakeholder of the trust—the individual’s income attribution percentage in relation to the trust is:
(i)	100%; or
(ii)	if the Commission determines a lower percentage in relation to the individual and the trust—that lower percentage.
(2A)	The only attributable stakeholder of a special disability trust is the principal beneficiary of the trust.
Note 1:	For special disability trust, see section 52ZZZW.
Note 2:	For principal beneficiary of a special disability trust, see subsection 52ZZZWA(1).
Determinations
(3)	A determination under this section is to be in writing.
(4)	A determination under this section has effect accordingly.
(5)	In making a determination under this section, the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles.
Subdivision G—Attribution of income of controlled private companies and controlled private trusts
52ZZK Attribution of income
(1)	For the purposes of this Act, if:
(a)	during a particular derivation period of a company or trust, the company or trust derives an amount that is ordinary income; and
(b)	an individual is an attributable stakeholder of the company or a trust throughout the attribution period that relates to the derivation period of the company or trust; and
(c)	the attribution period begins on or after 1 January 2002; and
(d)	if that amount:
(i)	had been derived by the individual instead of by the company or trust; and
(ii)	in the case of income accounted for on an accrual basis as mentioned in subsection (5)—had been so derived by the individual on a cash basis;
that amount would have been ordinary income of the individual; and
(e)	that amount is not excluded income (see subsection (2));
then, in addition to any other ordinary income of the individual, the individual is taken to receive, during that attribution period, ordinary income at an annual rate equal to the individual’s income attribution percentage of the amount worked out using the formula:
Note:	For attribution of the income of a special disability trust, see section 52ZZZWI.
Excluded income
(2)	The Commission may, by writing, determine that, for the purposes of the application of subsection (1) to a specified individual and a specified company or trust, a specified amount is excluded income.
(3)	A determination under subsection (2) has effect accordingly.
(4)	In making a determination under subsection (2), the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles.
Accrual v. cash accounting
(5)	If the income of a company or trust is accounted for on an accrual basis for the purposes of section 6-5 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, the ordinary income of the company or trust is accounted for on an accrual basis for the purposes of this section.
(6)	If the income of a company or trust is accounted for on a cash basis for the purposes of section 6-5 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, the ordinary income of the company or trust is accounted for on a cash basis for the purposes of this section.
52ZZL No double counting of attributed income
(1)	If:
(a)	a company makes a distribution of capital or profits of the company to a particular shareholder of the company; and
(b)	the shareholder is an individual; and
(c)	the individual is an attributable stakeholder of the company;
the Commission may, by writing:
(d)	determine that, for the purposes of this Act, the ordinary income of the individual does not include the amount or value distributed to the individual; or
(e)	determine that, for the purposes of this Act, the ordinary income of the individual does not include so much of the amount or value distributed to the individual as is specified in the determination.
(2)	If:
(a)	a trust:
(i)	makes a distribution (whether in money or in other property) to a particular beneficiary of the trust; or
(ii)	credits an amount to a particular beneficiary of the trust; and
(b)	the beneficiary is an individual; and
(c)	the individual is an attributable stakeholder of the trust;
the Commission may, by writing:
(d)	determine that, for the purposes of this Act, the ordinary income of the individual does not include the amount distributed or credited to the individual; or
(e)	determine that, for the purposes of this Act, the ordinary income of the individual does not include so much of the amount distributed or credited to the individual as is specified in the determination.
(3)	In making a determination under this section, the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles.
(4)	This section is to be disregarded for the purposes of paragraph 52ZZK(1)(d).
52ZZM Ordinary income of a company or trust
(1)	For the purposes of this Subdivision, the ordinary income of a company or trust is to be worked out as if:
(a)	exempt lump sums were not excluded from the definition of ordinary income in subsection 5H(1); and
(b)	each reference in section 5H to a person included a reference to a company or trust; and
(c)	the following provisions had not been enacted:
(i)	section 46Q;
(ii)	subsection 5H(8);
(iii)	subsections 5H(12) and (12A);
(iv)	Divisions 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 and 7.
(2)	Paragraphs (1)(a) and (c) have effect subject to paragraph 52ZZK(1)(d).
(3)	A reference in this Subdivision to the ordinary income of a company or trust is a reference to the company’s or trust’s gross ordinary income from all sources calculated without any reduction, other than a reduction under section 52ZZN or 52ZZO.
52ZZN Ordinary income from a business—treatment of trading stock
(1)	For the purposes of this Subdivision, if:
(a)	a company or trust carries on a business; and
(b)	the value of all the trading stock on hand at the end of a derivation period is greater than the value of all the trading stock on hand at the beginning of that derivation period;
the company’s or trust’s ordinary income for that derivation period in the form of profits from the business is to include the amount of the difference in values.
(2)	For the purposes of this Subdivision, if:
(a)	a company or trust carries on a business; and
(b)	the value of all the trading stock on hand at the end of a derivation period is less than the value of all the trading stock on hand at the beginning of that derivation period;
the company’s or trust’s ordinary income for that derivation period in the form of profits from the business is to be reduced by the amount of the difference in values.
52ZZO Permissible reductions of business and investment income
(1)	For the purposes of this Subdivision, if a company or trust carries on a business or holds an investment, the company’s or trust’s ordinary income from the business or investment is to be reduced by:
(a)	losses and outgoings that relate to the business or investment and are allowable deductions for the purposes of section 8-1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; and
(ba)	amounts that relate to the business or investment and can be deducted for the decline in value of depreciating assets under Subdivision 40-B of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; and
(c)	amounts that relate to the business or investment and are allowable deductions under any other provision of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 or the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
(2)	However, the rule in subsection (1) does not apply to:
(a)	an ineligible deduction (see subsection (3)); or
(b)	an ineligible amount (see subsection (4)); or
(c)	an ineligible part of a deduction (see subsection (5)).
(3)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, determine that a specified deduction is an ineligible deduction for the purposes of this section.
(4)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, determine that a specified amount is an ineligible amount for the purposes of this section.
(5)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, determine that a specified part of a specified deduction is an ineligible part of the deduction for the purposes of this section.
(6)	A determination under subsection (3), (4) or (5) has effect accordingly.
52ZZP Derivation periods
(1)	For the purposes of this Division:
(a)	if a company or trust was in existence throughout a tax year of the company or trust—the tax year is a derivation period of the company or trust; and
(b)	if a company or trust was in existence during a part of a tax year of the company or trust—that part of the tax year is a derivation period of the company or trust.
(2)	Subsection (1) has effect subject to subsection (3).
(3)	The Commission may, by writing, determine that, for the purposes of the application of this Subdivision to a specified individual and a specified company or trust, a specified period is a derivation period of the company or trust.
(4)	A determination under subsection (3) has effect accordingly.
(5)	In making a determination under subsection (3), the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles.
(6)	To avoid doubt, for the purposes of the application of this Subdivision to a particular individual and a particular company or trust, it is not necessary that the individual be an attributable stakeholder of the company or trust throughout a derivation period of the company or trust.
(7)	A derivation period may begin or end before the commencement of this Division.
52ZZQ Attribution periods
(1)	The Commission may, by writing, determine that, in the event that a specified individual is an attributable stakeholder of a specified company or trust at a specified time (the start time):
(a)	a period beginning at the start time and ending at whichever is the earlier of the following times:
(i)	the later time specified in the determination;
(ii)	the time when the individual ceases to be an attributable stakeholder of the company or trust;
is an attribution period for the purposes of the application of this Division to the individual and the company or trust; and
(b)	that attribution period relates to a specified derivation period of the company or trust.
(2)	A determination under subsection (1) has effect accordingly.
(3)	The Commission must ensure that, if an individual is an attributable stakeholder of a company or of a trust at a particular time on or after 1 January 2002, that time is included in an attribution period.
(4)	An attribution period may, but is not required to, overlap (in whole or in part) the derivation period to which it relates.
(5)	An attribution period does not have to be of the same length as the derivation period to which it relates.
(6)	Attribution periods do not have to be of the same length.
(7)	In making a determination under this section, the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles.
Subdivision H—Attribution of assets of controlled private companies and controlled private trusts
52ZZR Attribution of assets
(1)	For the purposes of this Act, if:
(a)	an individual is an attributable stakeholder of a company or trust at a particular time on or after 1 January 2002; and
(b)	at that time, the company or trust owns a particular asset (whether alone or jointly or in common with another entity or entities); and
(c)	if, at that time, that asset had been owned by the individual instead of by the company or trust, the value of the asset would not be required to be disregarded by any express provision of this Act; and
(d)	at that time, the asset is not an excluded asset (see subsection (2));
there is to be included in the value of the individual’s assets an amount equal to the individual’s asset attribution percentage of the value of the asset referred to in paragraph (b).
Note:	For attribution of the assets of a special disability trust, see section 52ZZZWK.
Excluded assets
(2)	The Commission may, by writing, determine that, for the purposes of the application of subsection (1) to a specified individual and a particular company or trust, a specified asset is an excluded asset.
(3)	A determination under subsection (2) has effect accordingly.
(4)	In making a determination under subsection (2), the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles.
52ZZS When attributed asset is unrealisable
(1)	For the purposes of this Act, if:
(a)	an individual is an attributable stakeholder of a company or trust at a particular time on or after 1 January 2002; and
(b)	at that time, the company or trust owns a particular asset (whether alone or jointly or in common with another entity or entities); and
(c)	under section 52ZZR, there is included in the value of the individual’s assets an amount equal to the individual’s asset attribution percentage of the value of the asset held by the company or trust;
the amount referred to in paragraph (c) is taken not to be an unrealisable asset of the individual unless the asset referred to in paragraph (b) is an unrealisable asset of the company or trust.
(2)	For the purposes of this section, in determining whether an asset is an unrealisable asset of a company or trust, ignore any limitation or restriction:
(a)	in the constituent document of the company or the trust deed of the trust, as the case requires; or
(b)	under a scheme that was entered into or carried out for the sole or dominant purpose of enabling any individual or individuals to avoid the application of this section and/or section 1208F of the Social Security Act.
(3)	For the purposes of this section, in determining whether an asset is an unrealisable asset of a company or trust, subsections 5L(11) and (12) have effect as if each reference in those subsections to a person included a reference to a company or trust.
52ZZT Effect of charge or encumbrance on value of assets
Charge or encumbrance relating to a single asset
(1)	For the purposes of the application of this Subdivision (other than this section) to a particular individual and a particular company or trust, if:
(a)	there is a charge or encumbrance over a particular asset of the company or trust; and
(b)	the charge or encumbrance relates exclusively to that asset;
the value of the asset is to be reduced by the value of the charge or encumbrance.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not apply to a charge or encumbrance over an asset of a company or trust to the extent that:
(a)	the charge or encumbrance is a collateral security; or
(b)	the charge or encumbrance was given for the benefit of an entity other than the company or trust; or
(c)	the value of the charge or encumbrance is excluded under subsection (6).
Charge or encumbrance relating to 2 or more assets
(3)	For the purposes of the application of this Subdivision (other than this section) to a particular individual and a particular company or trust, if:
(a)	there is a charge or encumbrance over a particular asset (the first asset) of the company or trust; and
(b)	the charge or encumbrance relates to the first asset and one or more other assets of the company or trust;
the value of the first asset is to be reduced by the amount worked out using the formula:
(4)	Subsection (3) does not apply to a charge or encumbrance over an asset of the company or trust to the extent that:
(a)	the charge or encumbrance was given for the benefit of an entity other than the company or trust; or
(b)	the value of the charge or encumbrance is excluded under subsection (6).
(5)	If (apart from this section), under section 52ZZR, there is included in the value of the individual’s assets an amount equal to the individual’s asset attribution percentage of the value of an asset held by the company or trust, the asset held by the company or trust is an attributable asset for the purposes of subsection (3).
Exclusion
(6)	The Commission may, by writing, determine that, for the purposes of the application of this section to a specified individual and a specified company or trust, the whole or a specified part of a specified charge or encumbrance over one or more of the assets of the company or trust is excluded for the purposes of paragraphs (2)(c) and (4)(b).
(7)	A determination under subsection (6) has effect accordingly.
(8)	In making a determination under subsection (6), the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles.
52ZZU Effect of unsecured loan on value of assets
(1)	For the purposes of the application of this Subdivision to a particular individual and a particular company or trust, if:
(a)	the company or trust is the borrower under a loan; and
(b)	the loan is not secured by a charge or encumbrance over one or more of the assets of the company or trust;
the Commission may, by writing, determine that the value of a specified asset of the company or trust is to be reduced by the whole, or a specified part, of the amount of the loan.
(2)	A determination under subsection (1) has effect accordingly.
(3)	In making a determination under subsection (1), the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles.
52ZZV Value of company’s or trust’s assets etc.
(1)	For the purposes of this Subdivision, the value of a company’s or trust’s assets, or of a charge or encumbrance on such assets, is to be worked out as if:
(a)	each reference in sections 5L and 5LA to a person included a reference to a company or trust; and
(b)	Subdivision A of Division 11 (other than section 52D) had not been enacted.
(2)	Paragraph (1)(b) has effect subject to paragraph 52ZZR(1)(c).
Subdivision I—Modification of asset deprivation rules
52ZZW Individual disposes of asset to company or trust
(1)	If:
(a)	an individual transfers property to a company or trust on or after 1 January 2002; and
(b)	either:
(i)	as a result of the transfer, the individual became an attributable stakeholder of the company or trust; or
(ii)	at the time of the transfer, the individual was an attributable stakeholder of the company or trust; and
(c)	the transfer amounts to a disposal by the individual of an asset of the individual;
the Commission may, by writing, determine that Subdivisions BA and BB of Division 11 and sections 45UT and 45UTA apply to that disposal as if:
(d)	the amount of the disposition were nil; or
(e)	the amount of the disposition were reduced by the amount specified in the determination.
(2)	In making a decision under this section, the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles.
52ZZX Disposal of asset by company or trust
(1)	If:
(a)	an individual is an attributable stakeholder of a company or trust; and
(b)	the company or trust disposes of an asset of the company or trust;
Subdivisions BA and BB of Division 11 and sections 45UT and 45UTA apply, and are taken to have applied, as if:
(c)	the individual had disposed of an asset of the individual; and
(d)	the amount of the disposition referred to in paragraph (c) were equal to the individual’s asset attribution percentage of the amount of the disposition referred to in paragraph (b).
(2)	Subsection (1) has effect subject to subsection (3).
Commission determinations
(3)	The Commission may, by writing:
(a)	determine that the disposal of a specified asset is exempt from subsection (1); or
(b)	determine that subsection (1) has effect, in relation to the disposal of a specified asset, as if the reference in paragraph (1)(d) to the individual’s asset attribution percentage were a reference to such lower percentage as is specified in the determination.
(4)	A determination under subsection (3) has effect accordingly.
(5)	In making a determination under subsection (3), the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles.
General disposal
(6)	For the purposes of subsection (1), a company or trust disposes of assets of the company or trust if:
(a)	on or after 1 January 2002, the company or trust, or an attributable stakeholder of the company or trust, engages in a course of conduct that directly or indirectly:
(i)	destroys all or some of the company’s or trust’s assets; or
(ii)	disposes of all or some of the company’s or trust’s assets; or
(iii)	diminishes the value of all or some of the company’s or trust’s assets; and
(b)	one of the following subparagraphs is satisfied:
(i)	the company or trust receives no consideration in money or money’s worth for the destruction, disposal or diminution;
(ii)	the company or trust receives inadequate consideration in money or money’s worth for the destruction, disposal or diminution;
(iii)	the Commission is satisfied that the purpose, or the dominant purpose, of the company, trust or stakeholder in engaging in that course of conduct was to obtain an income support advantage for an attributable stakeholder of the company or trust (who may be the first-mentioned stakeholder) or for a relative of an attributable stakeholder of the company or trust; and
(c)	in the case of a company—the disposal is not by way of making a distribution of capital or profits of the company to a shareholder of the company; and
(d)	in the case of a trust—the disposal is not by way of:
(i)	making a distribution (whether in money or in other property) to a beneficiary of the trust; or
(ii)	crediting an amount to a beneficiary of the trust.
(7)	If a company or trust disposes of assets as mentioned in subsection (6), the amount of the disposition is:
(a)	if the company or trust receives no consideration for the destruction, disposal or diminution—an amount equal to:
(i)	the value of the assets that are destroyed; or
(ii)	the value of the assets that are disposed of; or
(iii)	the amount of the diminution in the value of the assets whose value is diminished; or
(b)	if the company or trust receives consideration for the destruction, disposal or diminution—an amount equal to:
(i)	the value of the assets that are destroyed; or
(ii)	the value of the assets that are disposed of; or
(iii)	the amount of the diminution in the value of the assets whose value is diminished;
less the amount of the consideration received by the company or trust in respect of the destruction, disposal or diminution.
Disposal by way of distribution
(8)	For the purposes of subsection (1), if a company makes a distribution of capital or profits of the company to a shareholder of the company on or after 1 July 2000:
(a)	the company is taken to have disposed of an asset of the company; and
(b)	the amount of the disposition is equal to the amount or value distributed to the shareholder.
(9)	For the purposes of subsection (1), if a trust:
(a)	makes a distribution (whether in money or in other property) to a beneficiary of the trust on or after 1 July 2000; or
(b)	credits an amount to a beneficiary of the trust on or after 1 July 2000;
then:
(c)	the trust is taken to have disposed of an asset of the trust; and
(d)	the amount of the disposition is equal to the amount or value distributed or credited to the beneficiary.
Obtaining an income support advantage
(10)	For the purposes of this section, an entity has a purpose of obtaining an income support advantage for an individual (who may be the entity) if the entity has a purpose of:
(a)	enabling the individual to obtain any of the following:
(i)	a service pension;
(ii)	income support supplement;
(iia)	a veteran payment;
(iii)	a social security pension;
(iv)	a social security benefit; or
(b)	enabling the individual to obtain any of the following at a higher rate than would otherwise have been payable:
(i)	a service pension;
(ii)	income support supplement;
(iia)	a veteran payment;
(iii)	a social security pension;
(iv)	a social security benefit; or
(c)	ensuring that the individual would be eligible for benefits under Division 12 of this Part or fringe benefits under the Social Security Act.
52ZZY Individual ceases to be an attributable stakeholder of a company or trust
If:
(a)	an individual ceases to be an attributable stakeholder of a company or trust on or after 1 January 2002; and
(b)	immediately before the cessation, the company or trust owned a particular asset (whether alone or jointly or in common with another entity or entities);
Subdivisions BA and BB of Division 11 and sections 45UT and 45UTA have effect as if:
(c)	the individual had disposed of an asset of the individual; and
(d)	the amount of the disposition referred to in paragraph (c) were equal to the individual’s asset attribution percentage of the value of the asset referred to in paragraph (b), worked out immediately before the cessation.
52ZZZ Individual disposes of asset to company or trust before 1 January 2002—individual is attributable stakeholder
(1)	If:
(a)	an individual has transferred property to a company or trust before 1 January 2002; and
(b)	the transfer amounts to a disposal by the individual of an asset of the individual; and
(c)	apart from this section:
(i)	under Subdivision BA or BB of Division 11, as a result of the disposition, a particular amount is included in the value of the individual’s assets for the period of 5 years that starts on the day on which the disposition took place; and
(ii)	that 5-year period ends after 1 January 2002; and
(d)	the individual is an attributable stakeholder of the company or trust on 1 January 2002;
the Commission may, by writing, determine that:
(e)	in a case where the individual’s asset attribution percentage is 100%—Subdivisions BA and BB of Division 11 and sections 45UT and 45UTA have effect, in relation to the disposal of the asset referred to in paragraph (b), as if references in those Subdivisions and sections to the period of 5 years starting on the day on which the disposition took place were references to the period:
(i)	beginning on the day on which the disposition took place; and
(ii)	ending immediately before 1 January 2002; or
(f)	in a case where the individual’s asset attribution percentage is less than 100%—Subdivisions BA and BB of Division 11 and sections 45UT and 45UTA have effect on and after 1 January 2002, in relation to the disposal of the asset referred to in paragraph (b), as if the amount of the disposition were reduced by:
(i)	the individual’s asset attribution percentage as at 1 January 2002; or
(ii)	if a higher percentage is specified in the determination—that higher percentage.
(2)	A determination under subsection (1) has effect accordingly.
(3)	In making a determination under subsection (1), the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles.
52ZZZA Individual disposes of asset to company or trust before 1 January 2002—individual’s spouse is attributable stakeholder
(1)	If:
(a)	an individual has transferred property to a company or trust before 1 January 2002; and
(b)	the transfer amounts to a disposal by the individual of an asset of the individual; and
(c)	apart from this section:
(i)	under Subdivision BA or BB of Division 11, as a result of the disposition, a particular amount is included in the value of the individual’s assets for the period of 5 years that starts on the day on which the disposition took place; and
(ii)	that 5-year period ends after 1 January 2002; and
(d)	the individual’s spouse is an attributable stakeholder of the company or trust on 1 January 2002;
the Commission may, by writing, determine that:
(e)	in a case where the spouse’s asset attribution percentage is 100%—Subdivisions BA and BB of Division 11 and sections 45UT and 45UTA have effect, in relation to the disposal of the asset referred to in paragraph (b), as if references in those Subdivisions and sections to the period of 5 years starting on the day on which the disposition took place were references to the period:
(i)	beginning on the day on which the disposition took place; and
(ii)	ending immediately before 1 January 2002; or
(f)	in a case where the spouse’s asset attribution percentage is less than 100%—Subdivisions BA and BB of Division 11 and sections 45UT and 45UTA have effect on and after 1 January 2002, in relation to the disposal of the asset referred to in paragraph (b), as if the amount of the disposition were reduced by the spouse’s asset attribution percentage as at 1 January 2002.
(2)	A determination under subsection (1) has effect accordingly.
(3)	In making a determination under subsection (1), the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles.
Subdivision J—Modification of income deprivation rules
52ZZZB Individual disposes of ordinary income to company or trust
(1)	If:
(a)	an individual transfers property to a company or trust on or after 1 January 2002; and
(b)	either:
(i)	as a result of the transfer, the individual became an attributable stakeholder of the company or trust; or
(ii)	at the time of the transfer, the individual was an attributable stakeholder of the company or trust; and
(c)	the transfer amounts to a disposal by the individual of ordinary income of the individual; and
(d)	if the ordinary income is income from an asset—the course of conduct that constituted the disposition of the income did not also constitute a disposition of the asset;
the Commission may, by writing, determine that Division 7 applies, and is taken to have applied, to the disposal referred to in paragraph (c) as if:
(e)	the amount of the disposition were nil; or
(f)	the amount of the disposition were reduced by the amount specified in the determination.
(2)	In making a decision under this section, the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles.
52ZZZC Disposal of income by company or trust
(1)	If:
(a)	an individual is an attributable stakeholder of a company or trust; and
(b)	the company or trust disposes of ordinary income of the company or trust; and
(c)	if that income had been income of the individual instead of the company or trust, the income would have been ordinary income of the individual; and
(d)	if the ordinary income is income from an asset—the course of conduct that constituted the disposition of the income did not also constitute a disposition of the asset;
Division 7 applies, and is taken to have applied, as if:
(e)	the individual had disposed of ordinary income of the individual; and
(f)	the amount of the disposition referred to in paragraph (e) were equal to the individual’s income attribution percentage of the amount of the disposition referred to in paragraph (b).
(2)	Subsection (1) has effect subject to subsection (3).
Commission determinations
(3)	The Commission may, by writing:
(a)	determine that the disposal of specified ordinary income is exempt from subsection (1); or
(b)	determine that subsection (1) has effect, in relation to the disposal of specified ordinary income, as if the reference in paragraph (1)(f) to the individual’s income attribution percentage were a reference to such lower percentage as is specified in the determination.
(4)	A determination under subsection (3) has effect accordingly.
(5)	In making a determination under subsection (3), the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles.
General disposal
(6)	For the purposes of subsection (1), a company or trust disposes of ordinary income of the company or trust if:
(a)	on or after 1 January 2002, the company or trust, or an attributable stakeholder of the company or trust, engages in a course of conduct that directly or indirectly:
(i)	destroys the source of the income; or
(ii)	disposes of the income or the source of the income; or
(iii)	diminishes the income; and
(b)	one of the following subparagraphs is satisfied:
(i)	the company or trust receives no consideration in money or money’s worth for the destruction, disposal or diminution;
(ii)	the company or trust receives inadequate consideration in money or money’s worth for the destruction, disposal or diminution;
(iii)	the Commission is satisfied that the purpose, or the dominant purpose, of the company, trust or stakeholder in engaging in that course of conduct was to obtain an income support advantage for an attributable stakeholder of the company or trust (who may be the first-mentioned stakeholder) or for a relative of an attributable stakeholder of the company or trust; and
(c)	in the case of a company—the disposal is not by way of making a distribution of capital or profits of the company to a shareholder of the company; and
(d)	in the case of a trust—the disposal is not by way of:
(i)	making a distribution (whether in money or in other property) to a beneficiary of the trust; or
(ii)	crediting an amount to a beneficiary of the trust.
(7)	If a company or trust disposes of ordinary income as mentioned in subsection (6), the amount of the disposition is:
(a)	if the company or trust receives no consideration for the destruction, disposal or diminution—the annual rate of the diminution of the income because of the destruction, disposal or diminution; or
(b)	if the company or trust receives consideration for the destruction, disposal or diminution—the annual rate of the diminution of the income because of the destruction, disposal or diminution less the part (if any) of the consideration that the Commission considers to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Obtaining an income support advantage
(8)	For the purposes of this section, an entity has a purpose of obtaining an income support advantage for an individual (who may be the entity) if the entity has a purpose of:
(a)	enabling the individual to obtain any of the following:
(i)	a service pension;
(ii)	income support supplement;
(iia)	a veteran payment;
(iii)	a social security pension;
(iv)	a social security benefit; or
(b)	enabling the individual to obtain any of the following at a higher rate than would otherwise have been payable:
(i)	a service pension;
(ii)	income support supplement;
(iia)	a veteran payment;
(iii)	a social security pension;
(iv)	a social security benefit; or
(c)	ensuring that the individual would be eligible for benefits under Division 12 of this Part or fringe benefits under the Social Security Act.
Ordinary income
(9)	In this section:
ordinary income, in relation to a company or trust, has the same meaning as in Subdivision G.
52ZZZD Individual disposes of income to company or trust before 1 January 2002—individual is attributable stakeholder
(1)	If:
(a)	an individual has transferred property to a company or trust before 1 January 2002; and
(b)	the transfer amounts to a disposal by the individual of ordinary income of the individual; and
(c)	apart from this section, under Division 7, as a result of the disposition referred to in paragraph (b), a particular amount is included in the individual’s ordinary income; and
(d)	the individual is an attributable stakeholder of the company or trust on 1 January 2002;
the Commission may, by writing, determine that:
(e)	in a case where the individual’s income attribution percentage is 100%—Division 7 has effect on or after 1 January 2002, in relation to the disposal of the income referred to in paragraph (b), as if the amount of the disposition were nil; or
(f)	in a case where the individual’s income attribution percentage is less than 100%—Division 7 has effect on and after 1 January 2002, in relation to the disposal of the income referred to in paragraph (b), as if the amount of the disposition were reduced by:
(i)	the individual’s income attribution percentage as at 1 January 2002; or
(ii)	if a higher percentage is specified in the determination—that higher percentage.
(2)	A determination under subsection (1) has effect accordingly.
(3)	In making a determination under subsection (1), the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles.
52ZZZE Individual disposes of income to company or trust before 1 January 2002—individual’s spouse is attributable stakeholder
(1)	If:
(a)	an individual has transferred property to a company or trust before 1 January 2002; and
(b)	the transfer amounts to a disposal by the individual of ordinary income of the individual; and
(c)	apart from this section, under Division 7, as a result of the disposition referred to in paragraph (b), a particular amount is included in the individual’s ordinary income; and
(d)	the individual’s spouse is an attributable stakeholder of the company or trust on 1 January 2002;
the Commission may, by writing, determine that:
(e)	in a case where the spouse’s income attribution percentage is 100%—Division 7 has effect on or after 1 January 2002, in relation to the disposal of the income referred to in paragraph (b), as if the amount of the disposition were nil; or
(f)	in a case where the spouse’s income attribution percentage is less than 100%—Division 7 has effect on and after 1 January 2002, in relation to the disposal of the income referred to in paragraph (b), as if the amount of the disposition were reduced by the spouse’s income attribution percentage as at 1 January 2002.
(2)	A determination under subsection (1) has effect accordingly.
(3)	In making a determination under subsection (1), the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles.
Subdivision K—Concessional primary production trusts
52ZZZF Concessional primary production trusts
(1)	For the purposes of this Division, a trust is a concessional primary production trust in relation to an individual at a particular time (the test time), if:
(a)	at the test time, the trust is a controlled private trust in relation to the individual; and
(b)	at the test time, either:
(i)	the trust carries on a primary production enterprise (the first primary production enterprise); or
(ii)	the trust makes an asset available to another entity, the other entity carries on a primary production enterprise (the first primary production enterprise), and the asset is used by the other entity wholly or principally for the purposes of carrying on the first primary production enterprise; and
(c)	at the test time, more than 70% of the net value of the assets of the trust (excluding the net value of the principal home of the individual if that principal home is owned by the trust) relates to assets used wholly or principally for the purposes of carrying on a primary production enterprise; and
(d)	at the test time, the sum of:
(i)	the total adjusted net value of assets that are owned or controlled by the individual and used wholly or principally for the purposes of carrying on a primary production enterprise; and
(ii)	the total adjusted net value of assets that are owned or controlled by the individual’s spouse and used wholly or principally for the purposes of carrying on a primary production enterprise;
is less than the primary production attribution threshold (as defined by subsection (6)); and
(e)	if:
(i)	the individual or the individual’s spouse had adjusted net primary production income for the last tax year that ended before the test time; and
(ii)	the individual or the individual’s spouse had adjusted net primary production income for the tax year that preceded the tax year first referred to in subparagraph (i); and
(iii)	the individual or the individual’s spouse had adjusted net primary production income for the tax year that preceded the tax year first referred to in subparagraph (ii);
the average of the following amounts is less than the amount specified in clause 38N of Schedule 1 to the A New Tax System (Family Assistance) Act 1999 (subject to any indexation under Schedule 4 to that Act):
(iv)	the total adjusted net primary production income of the individual and the individual’s spouse for the tax year referred to in subparagraph (i);
(v)	the total adjusted net primary production income of the individual and the individual’s spouse for the tax year first referred to in subparagraph (ii);
(vi)	the total adjusted net primary production income of the individual and the individual’s spouse for the tax year first referred to in subparagraph (iii); and
(f)	if:
(i)	neither the individual nor the individual’s spouse had adjusted net primary production income for the last tax year that ended before the test time; or
(ii)	neither the individual nor the individual’s spouse had adjusted net primary production income for the tax year that preceded the tax year referred to in subparagraph (i); or
(iii)	neither the individual nor the individual’s spouse had adjusted net primary production income for the tax year that preceded the tax year referred to in subparagraph (ii);
the Commission, by writing, determines that this paragraph applies to the individual and the trust; and
(g)	at the test time, the individual is not actively involved with the first primary production enterprise; and
(h)	at the test time, an eligible descendant of the individual is actively involved with the first primary production enterprise; and
(i)	if, at the test time, the individual is able to appoint the trustee, or any of the trustees, of the trust—there is a provision of the trust deed to the effect that that ability may only be exercised:
(i)	if the trustee concerned dies, resigns or becomes subject to a legal disability; or
(ii)	in accordance with a statutory law relating to the appointment of trustees; and
(j)	if, at the test time, the individual is able to veto or direct the decisions of the trustee—there is a provision of the trust deed to the effect that that ability may only be exercised:
(i)	in relation to the sale of land used for the purposes of carrying on the first primary production enterprise; or
(ii)	in relation to the sale of fishing rights or timber rights used for the purposes of carrying on the first primary production enterprise; or
(iii)	in accordance with a statutory law relating to the appointment of trustees; and
(k)	at the test time, there is a provision of the trust deed to the effect that neither the individual, nor the individual’s spouse, is, or is capable of becoming, the trustee, or any of the trustees, of the trust; and
(l)	at the test time, a group in relation to the individual is not able to vary a provision covered by paragraph (i), (j) or (k); and
(m)	at the test time, neither the individual, nor the individual’s spouse, is able to vary the trust deed; and
(n)	at the test time, neither the individual, nor the individual’s spouse:
(i)	benefits or is capable (whether by the exercise of a power of appointment or otherwise) of benefiting under the trust, either directly or through any interposed companies, business partnerships or trusts; or
(ii)	receives any remuneration or other benefits from the trust otherwise than in the capacity of beneficiary of the trust.
(2)	For the purposes of the application of paragraphs (1)(e) and (f) to a particular tax year, a person is the individual’s spouse if, and only if:
(a)	the person was the spouse of the individual at any time during the tax year; and
(b)	the person is the spouse of the individual at the test time.
(3)	In making a determination under paragraph (1)(f), the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles.
(3A)	For the purposes of paragraph (1)(h), an eligible descendant, in relation to a person, is:
(a)	a child, step-child or adopted child of the person or of a partner of the person; or
(b)	a descendant in direct line of a child described in paragraph (a); or
(c)	any other person who, in the opinion of the Commission, should be treated for the purposes of this definition as a person described in paragraph (a) or (b).
(4)	Paragraph (1)(n) does not apply to any of the following benefits:
(a)	food that:
(i)	is derived from the first primary production enterprise; and
(ii)	is for the personal consumption of the individual or the individual’s spouse;
(b)	residential accommodation for the individual or the individual’s spouse, where that accommodation is the principal home of the individual;
(c)	if paragraph (b) applies—water, fuel, gas or electricity for use in that residential accommodation;
(d)	any other non-cash benefit that is minor and provided on a basis that is infrequent and irregular.
(5)	Subparagraph (1)(n)(ii) has effect subject to section 52ZZZG.
(6)	For the purposes of this section, the primary production attribution threshold is $750,000.
(7)	A reference in this section to a group in relation to an individual is a reference to:
(a)	the individual acting alone; or
(b)	an associate of the individual acting alone; or
(c)	the individual and one or more associates of the individual acting together; or
(d)	2 or more associates of the individual acting together.
52ZZZG Individual ceases to be an attributable stakeholder of a trust—receipt of remuneration or other benefits from trust during asset deprivation period
(1)	For the purposes of this section, if:
(a)	an individual ceases to be an attributable stakeholder of a trust on or after 1 January 2002; and
(b)	immediately after the cessation, the trust was a concessional primary production trust in relation to the individual; and
(c)	under section 52ZZY, as a result of the cessation, Subdivision BA or BB of Division 11 has effect as if the individual had disposed of an asset of the individual; and
(d)	under Subdivision BA or BB of Division 11, as a result of the disposition, a particular amount is included in the value of the individual’s assets for the period of 5 years that starts on the day on which the disposition took place;
then:
(e)	the period referred to in paragraph (d) is the asset deprivation period in relation to the individual and the trust; and
(f)	throughout the asset deprivation period, the trust is a special primary production trust of the individual; and
(g)	each one of the 5 years that constitutes the asset deprivation period is an asset deprivation year in relation to the individual and the trust.
(2)	If:
(a)	a trust (the first trust) is a special primary production trust in relation to an individual; and
(b)	the individual and/or the individual’s spouse received one or more benefits (the first benefits) from the trust during a period that is an asset deprivation year (the first asset deprivation year) in relation to the individual and the trust;
subparagraph 52ZZZF(1)(n)(ii) does not apply to the first benefits, so long as the sum of the following amounts is less than the amount specified in clause 38N of Schedule 1 to the A New Tax System (Family Assistance) Act 1999 (subject to any indexation under Schedule 4 to that Act):
(c)	the total of the amount or value of the first benefits;
(d)	if:
(i)	another trust is a special primary production trust in relation to the individual; and
(ii)	the asset deprivation period in relation to the individual and that other trust overlaps, in whole or in part, the first asset deprivation year; and
(iii)	the individual and/or the individual’s spouse received one or more benefits (the second benefits) from that other trust during the period of the overlap;
the total of the amount or value of the second benefits;
(e)	if:
(i)	another trust is a special primary production trust in relation to the individual’s spouse; and
(ii)	the asset deprivation period in relation to the individual’s spouse and that other trust overlaps, in whole or in part, the first asset deprivation year; and
(iii)	the individual’s spouse and/or the individual received one or more benefits (the third benefits) from that other trust during the period of the overlap;
the total of the amount or value of the third benefits.
(3)	Subsection (2) does not apply to any of the following benefits:
(a)	food that:
(i)	is derived from the first primary production enterprise referred to in section 52ZZZF; and
(ii)	is for the personal consumption of the individual or the individual’s spouse;
(b)	residential accommodation for the individual or the individual’s spouse, where that accommodation is the principal home of the individual;
(c)	if paragraph (b) applies—water, fuel, gas or electricity for use in that residential accommodation;
(d)	any other non-cash benefit that is minor and provided on a basis that is infrequent and irregular.
(4)	In this section:
benefit, in relation to a trust, means any remuneration or other benefit received from the trust otherwise than in the capacity of beneficiary of the trust.
52ZZZH Net value of asset
(1)	For the purposes of this Subdivision, the net value of an asset is the value of the asset, without any reduction other than a reduction under subsection (2).
(2)	The Commission may, by writing, determine that the value of a specified asset is to be reduced by the whole or a specified part of a specified liability.
(3)	A determination under this section has effect accordingly.
(4)	In making a determination under this section, the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles.
52ZZZI Value of entity’s assets
For the purposes of this Subdivision, the value of an entity’s assets is to be worked out as if:
(a)	each reference in sections 5L and 5LA to a person included a reference to an entity; and
(b)	Subdivision A of Division 11 (other than section 52D) had not been enacted.
52ZZZJ When asset is controlled by an individual
(1)	For the purposes of this Subdivision, an asset is controlled by an individual if, and only if:
(a)	all of the following conditions are satisfied:
(i)	the asset is owned by a company;
(ii)	the company is a controlled private company in relation to the individual;
(iii)	no determination is in force under subsection (2) in relation to the asset and the individual; or
(b)	all of the following conditions are satisfied:
(i)	the asset is owned by a trust;
(ii)	the trust is a controlled private trust in relation to the individual;
(iii)	no determination is in force under subsection (2) in relation to the asset and the individual; or
(c)	both:
(i)	the asset is owned by a business partnership; and
(ii)	the individual is a partner in the partnership.
(2)	If the asset is owned by a company or trust, the Commission may, by writing, determine that, for the purposes of this Subdivision, the asset is taken not to be controlled by the individual.
(3)	In making a determination under subsection (2), the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles.
52ZZZK Adjusted net value of asset
(1)	For the purposes of this Subdivision, the adjusted net value of an asset owned by an individual is 100% of the net value of the asset.
(2)	For the purposes of this Subdivision, the adjusted net value of an asset controlled by an individual is:
(a)	if the entity that owns the asset is a company and the company is a controlled private company in relation to the individual:
(i)	100% of the net value of the asset; or
(ii)	if the Commission, by writing, determines a lower percentage in relation to the individual and the asset—that lower percentage of the net value of the asset; or
(b)	if the entity that owns the asset is a trust and the trust is a controlled private trust in relation to the individual:
(i)	100% of the net value of the asset; or
(ii)	if the Commission, by writing, determines a lower percentage in relation to the individual and the asset—that lower percentage of the net value of the asset; or
(c)	if the entity that owns the asset is a business partnership—the individual’s share of the net value of the asset.
(3)	In making a determination under this section, the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles.
52ZZZL Adjusted net primary production income
(1)	For the purposes of this Subdivision, the adjusted net primary production income of an individual for a particular tax year is the sum of:
(a)	if the individual carried on a primary production enterprise throughout that tax year—100% of the net income of that primary production enterprise for that tax year; and
(b)	if a company carried on a primary production enterprise throughout that tax year and the company was a controlled private company in relation to the individual throughout that tax year:
(i)	100% of the net income of that primary production enterprise for that tax year; or
(ii)	if the Commission, by writing, determines a lower percentage in relation to the individual and the enterprise—that lower percentage of the net income of that primary production enterprise for that tax year; and
(c)	if a trust carried on a primary production enterprise throughout that tax year and the trust was a controlled private trust in relation to the individual throughout that tax year:
(i)	100% of the net income of that primary production enterprise for that tax year; or
(ii)	if the Commission, by writing, determines a lower percentage in relation to the individual and the enterprise—that lower percentage of the net income of that primary production enterprise for that tax year; and
(d)	if:
(i)	a business partnership carried on a primary production enterprise throughout that tax year; and
(ii)	the individual was a partner in the partnership throughout that tax year;
the individual’s share of the net income of that primary production enterprise for that tax year.
(2)	In making a determination under this section, the Commission must comply with any relevant decision-making principles.
52ZZZM Net income of a primary production enterprise
(1)	For the purposes of this Subdivision, if an entity carries on a primary production enterprise during a tax year of the entity, the net income of that primary production enterprise for that tax year is the entity’s gross ordinary income from the carrying on of that enterprise calculated without any reduction, other than a reduction under section 52ZZZN or 52ZZZO.
(2)	For the purposes of this Subdivision, the net income of a primary production enterprise is to be worked out as if:
(a)	exempt lump sums were not excluded from the definition of ordinary income in subsection 5H(1); and
(b)	each reference in section 5H to a person included a reference to an entity; and
(c)	the following provisions had not been enacted:
(i)	section 46Q;
(ii)	subsection 5H(8);
(iii)	subsections 5H(12) and (12A);
(iv)	Divisions 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 and 7.
52ZZZN Net income from a primary production enterprise—treatment of trading stock
(1)	For the purposes of this Subdivision, if:
(a)	an entity carries on a primary production enterprise; and
(b)	the value of all the trading stock on hand at the end of a tax year is greater than the value of all the trading stock on hand at the beginning of that tax year;
the entity’s income for that tax year in the form of profits from the enterprise is to include the amount of the difference in values.
(2)	For the purposes of this Subdivision, if:
(a)	an entity carries on a primary production enterprise; and
(b)	the value of all the trading stock on hand at the end of a tax year is less than the value of all the trading stock on hand at the beginning of that tax year;
the entity’s income for that tax year in the form of profits from the enterprise is to be reduced by the amount of the difference in values.
52ZZZO Permissible reductions of income from carrying on a primary production enterprise
(1)	For the purposes of this Subdivision, if an entity carries on a primary production enterprise, the entity’s income from the primary production enterprise is to be reduced by:
(a)	losses and outgoings that relate to the primary production enterprise and are allowable deductions for the purposes of section 8-1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; and
(ba)	amounts that relate to the primary production enterprise and can be deducted for the decline in value of depreciating assets under Subdivision 40-B of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997; and
(c)	amounts that relate to the primary production enterprise and are allowable deductions under any other provision of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 or the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
(2)	However, the rule in subsection (1) does not apply to:
(a)	an ineligible deduction (see subsection (3)); or
(b)	an ineligible amount (see subsection (4)); or
(c)	an ineligible part of a deduction (see subsection (5)).
(3)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, determine a specified deduction is an ineligible deduction for the purposes of this section.
(4)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, determine that a specified amount is an ineligible amount for the purposes of this section.
(5)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, determine that a specified part of a specified deduction is an ineligible part of the deduction for the purposes of this section.
(6)	A determination under subsection (3), (4) or (5) has effect accordingly.
Subdivision L—Anti-avoidance
52ZZZP Anti-avoidance
(1)	If:
(a)	one or more entities enter into, commence to carry out, or carry out, a scheme; and
(b)	it would be concluded that the entity, or any of the entities, who entered into, commenced to carry out, or carried out, the scheme did so for the sole or dominant purpose of obtaining an income support advantage for an individual (who may be the entity or one of the entities);
the Commission may, by writing, make any or all of the following determinations:
(c)	a determination that this Division has, and is taken to have had, effect as if the individual were an attributable stakeholder of a specified company or trust at a specified time or during a specified period;
(d)	a determination that this Division has, and is taken to have had, effect as if a specified asset were owned by a specified company or trust at a specified time or during a specified period;
(e)	a determination that this Division has, and is taken to have had, effect as if specified income had been derived by a specified company or trust at a specified time or during a specified period.
(2)	A determination under subsection (1) has effect accordingly.
Obtaining an income support advantage
(3)	For the purposes of this section, an entity has a purpose of obtaining an income support advantage for an individual (who may be the entity) if the entity has a purpose of:
(a)	enabling the individual to obtain any of the following:
(i)	a service pension;
(ii)	income support supplement;
(iia)	a veteran payment;
(iii)	a social security pension;
(iv)	a social security benefit; or
(b)	enabling the individual to obtain any of the following at a higher rate than would otherwise have been payable:
(i)	a service pension;
(ii)	income support supplement;
(iia)	a veteran payment;
(iii)	a social security pension;
(iv)	a social security benefit; or
(c)	ensuring that the individual would be eligible for benefits under Division 12 of this Part or fringe benefits under the Social Security Act.
Subdivision M—Decision-making principles
52ZZZQ Decision-making principles
The Commission may, by legislative instrument, formulate principles (decision-making principles) to be complied with by it in making decisions under:
(a)	section 52ZZJ; or
(b)	subsection 52ZZK(2); or
(c)	section 52ZZL, 52ZZP or 52ZZQ; or
(d)	subsection 52ZZR(2); or
(e)	subsection 52ZZT(6) or 52ZZU(1); or
(f)	section 52ZZW; or
(g)	subsection 52ZZX(3), 52ZZZ(1) or 52ZZZA(1); or
(h)	section 52ZZZB; or
(i)	subsection 52ZZZC(3), 52ZZZD(1) or 52ZZZE(1); or
(j)	paragraph 52ZZZF(1)(f); or
(k)	section 52ZZZH; or
(l)	subsection 52ZZZJ(2); or
(m)	section 52ZZZK or 52ZZZL.
Subdivision N—Information management
52ZZZR Transitional period
For the purposes of this Subdivision, the transitional period is the period:
(a)	beginning on the commencement of this Division; and
(b)	ending immediately before 1 January 2002.
52ZZZS Information-gathering powers
In determining the scope of the power conferred on the Secretary during the transitional period by section 128 to require the provision of information, or the production of a document, it is to be assumed that:
(a)	section 52ZN (simplified outline) had effect as if the reference in that section to 1 January 2002 were a reference to the first day of the transitional period; and
(b)	section 52ZZK (attribution of income) had effect, in relation to a particular individual and a particular company or trust, as if:
(i)	a tax year of the company or trust, being a tax year specified in the notice imposing the requirement, were a derivation period of the company or trust; and
(ii)	a period specified in the notice imposing the requirement were an attribution period of the company or trust, and that attribution period related to a specified derivation period of the company or trust; and
(iii)	the reference in paragraph 52ZZK(1)(c) to 1 January 2002 were a reference to the first day of the transitional period; and
(iv)	sections 52ZZP and 52ZZQ had not been enacted; and
(c)	section 52ZZR (attribution of assets) had effect as if the reference in paragraph 52ZZR(1)(a) to 1 January 2002 were a reference to the first day of the transitional period.
52ZZZT Commission may obtain tax information
(1)	If the Commission has reason to believe that the Commissioner of Taxation has information (other than a tax file number) that may be relevant to the operation of this Division, the Commission may, by written notice given to the Commissioner of Taxation, require the Commissioner of Taxation to give to the Commission any such information.
(2)	If the Commission has reason to believe that the relationship (whether direct or indirect) between:
(a)	a particular trust; and
(b)	a particular individual or an associate of a particular individual;
may be relevant to the operation of this Division, the Commission may, by written notice given to the Commissioner of Taxation, require the Commissioner of Taxation to give to the Commission the tax file number of the trust.
(3)	The Commissioner of Taxation must comply with a requirement under subsection (1) or (2).
(4)	Subsections (1) and (2) do not, by implication, limit a power conferred by:
(a)	paragraph 16(4)(d) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936; or
(b)	section 128 of this Act.
(5)	A tax file number provided to the Commission under subsection (2) may only be used for the following purposes:
(a)	to detect cases in which amounts of service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment have been paid when they should not have been paid;
(b)	to verify, in respect of persons who have made claims for service pension or income support supplement, the qualification of those persons for those payments or to verify the eligibility of persons for veteran payment;
(c)	to establish whether the rates at which service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment are being, or have been, paid are, or were, correct.
(6)	In determining the scope of a power conferred during the transitional period by subsection (1), (2) or (5), it is to be assumed that:
(a)	section 52ZN (simplified outline) had effect as if the reference in that section to 1 January 2002 were a reference to the first day of the transitional period; and
(b)	section 52ZZK (attribution of income) had effect, in relation to a particular individual and a particular company or trust, as if:
(i)	a tax year of the company or trust, being a tax year specified in a written notice given to the Commissioner of Taxation by the Commission, were a derivation period of the company or trust; and
(ii)	a period specified in a written notice given to the Commissioner of Taxation by the Commission were an attribution period of the company or trust, and that attribution period related to a specified derivation period of the company or trust; and
(iii)	the reference in paragraph 52ZZK(1)(c) to 1 January 2002 were a reference to the first day of the transitional period; and
(iv)	sections 52ZZP and 52ZZQ had not been enacted; and
(c)	section 52ZZR (attribution of assets) had effect as if the reference in paragraph 52ZZR(1)(a) to 1 January 2002 were a reference to the first day of the transitional period.
52ZZZU Disclosure of tax information
In determining the scope of the power conferred on a person (the tax official) during the transitional period by paragraph 16(4)(d) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 to communicate information for the purpose of the administration of any law of the Commonwealth relating to pensions, it is to be assumed that:
(a)	section 52ZN (simplified outline) had effect as if the reference in that section to 1 January 2002 were a reference to the first day of the transitional period; and
(b)	section 52ZZK (attribution of income) had effect, in relation to a particular individual and a particular company or trust, as if:
(i)	a tax year of the company or trust, being a tax year specified in a written notice given to the tax official by the Commission, were a derivation period of the company or trust; and
(ii)	a period specified in a written notice given to the tax official by the Commission were an attribution period of the company or trust, and that attribution period related to a specified derivation period of the company or trust; and
(iii)	the reference in paragraph 52ZZK(1)(c) to 1 January 2002 were a reference to the first day of the transitional period; and
(iv)	sections 52ZZP and 52ZZQ had not been enacted; and
(c)	section 52ZZR (attribution of assets) had effect as if the reference in paragraph 52ZZR(1)(a) to 1 January 2002 were a reference to the first day of the transitional period.
52ZZZV Disclosure of tax file number information
In determining the scope of paragraph 202(hc) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936, and sections 8WA and 8WB of the Taxation Administration Act 1953, during the transitional period, it is to be assumed that:
(a)	section 52ZN (simplified outline) had effect as if the reference in that section to 1 January 2002 were a reference to the first day of the transitional period; and
(b)	section 52ZZK (attribution of income) had effect, in relation to a particular individual and a particular company or trust, as if:
(i)	a tax year of the company or trust, being a tax year specified in a written notice given to the Commissioner of Taxation by the Commission, were a derivation period of the company or trust; and
(ii)	a period specified in a written notice given to the Commissioner of Taxation by the Commission were an attribution period of the company or trust, and that attribution period related to a specified derivation period of the company or trust; and
(iii)	the reference in paragraph 52ZZK(1)(c) to 1 January 2002 were a reference to the first day of the transitional period; and
(iv)	sections 52ZZP and 52ZZQ had not been enacted; and
(c)	section 52ZZR (attribution of assets) had effect as if the reference in paragraph 52ZZR(1)(a) to 1 January 2002 were a reference to the first day of the transitional period.
	Division 11B — Private financial provision for certain people with disabilities
Subdivision A—Special disability trusts
52ZZZW What is a special disability trust?
A trust is a special disability trust if the following requirements of this Subdivision are complied with:
(a)	the beneficiary requirements (see section 52ZZZWA);
(b)	the trust purpose requirements (see section 52ZZZWB);
(c)	the trust deed requirements (see section 52ZZZWC);
(d)	the trustee requirements (see section 52ZZZWD);
(e)	the trust property requirements (see section 52ZZZWE);
(ea)	the trust expenditure requirements, if any (see section 52ZZZWEA);
(f)	the reporting requirements (see section 52ZZZWF);
(g)	the audit requirements (see section 52ZZZWG).
Note:	The Commission may waive one or more requirements in certain circumstances (see section 52ZZZWH).
52ZZZWA Beneficiary requirements
Single beneficiary rule
(1)	The trust must have no more than one beneficiary (the principal beneficiary), not including any residuary beneficiary.
Impairment or disability conditions
(2)	If the principal beneficiary has reached 16 years of age:
(a)	the beneficiary must:
(i)	be eligible for invalidity service pension; or
(ii)	be eligible for income support supplement and be permanently incapacitated for work in the circumstances set out in a determination under section 45QA; or
(iii)	have an impairment that would qualify the person for disability support pension under the Social Security Act; and
(b)	the beneficiary must:
(i)	have a disability that would, if the person had a sole carer, qualify the carer for carer payment, or carer allowance, under the Social Security Act; or
(ii)	be living in an institution, hostel or group home in which care is provided for people with disabilities, and for which funding is provided (wholly or partly) under an agreement, between the Commonwealth, the States and the Territories, nominated by the Commission under subsection (3); and
(c)	the beneficiary must have a disability as a result of which either:
(i)	he or she is not working, and has no likelihood of working, for more than 7 hours a week for a wage that is at or above the relevant minimum wage within the meaning of subsection 23(1) of the Social Security Act; or
(ii)	he or she is working for wages set in accordance with the program administered by the Commonwealth known as the supported wage system.
(3)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, nominate an agreement for the purpose of subparagraph (2)(b)(ii).
(4)	If the principal beneficiary is under 16 years of age, subsection (4A) must apply to him or her.
(4A)	This subsection applies if:
(a)	the principal beneficiary is a person with a severe disability or a severe medical condition; and
(b)	another person (the carer) has been given a qualifying rating of intense under the Disability Care Load Assessment (Child) Determination (within the meaning of the Social Security Act) for caring for the principal beneficiary; and
(c)	a treating health professional (within the meaning of that Act) has certified in writing that, because of that disability or condition:
(i)	the principal beneficiary will need personal care for 6 months or more; and
(ii)	the personal care is required to be provided by a specified number of persons; and
(d)	the carer has certified in writing that the principal beneficiary will require the same care, or an increased level of care, to be provided to him or her in the future.
Living beneficiary rule
(5)	A trust stops being a special disability trust when the principal beneficiary dies.
Single trust rule
(6)	A trust is not a special disability trust for a particular principal beneficiary if, at the time of its creation, there is already another trust in existence for that person that is:
(a)	a special disability trust; or
(b)	a special disability trust within the meaning of the Social Security Act.
52ZZZWB Trust purpose requirements
Primary purpose—care and accommodation for principal beneficiary
(1)	Subject to this section, the primary purpose of the trust during the lifetime of the principal beneficiary, as provided by the trust deed for the trust, must be to meet reasonable care and accommodation needs of the beneficiary.
Note:	The provision of care and accommodation for the principal beneficiary is also dealt with at section 52ZZZWE.
Other purposes
(2)	The trust may have other purposes that are:
(a)	both ancillary to the primary purpose and necessary or desirable to facilitate the achievement of that purpose; or
(b)	primarily for the benefit of the principal beneficiary.
Note 1:	A particular purpose may be covered by both of paragraphs (2)(a) and (b).
Note 2:	The application of the income and assets of the trust for purposes (other than the primary purpose) that are primarily for the benefit of the principal beneficiary is dealt with by section 52ZZZWEA.
Guidelines relating to purposes
(3)	If guidelines are made under subsection (4) then, for the purposes of this section:
(a)	the reasonable care and accommodation needs of a principal beneficiary of a special disability trust must be decided in accordance with the guidelines if they deal with those needs; and
(b)	purposes, other than the primary purpose of a special disability trust, that are primarily for the benefit of the principal beneficiary of a trust must be decided in accordance with the guidelines if they deal with those other purposes.
(4)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, make guidelines for deciding either or both of the following for the purposes of this section:
(a)	what are, and what are not, reasonable care and accommodation needs for beneficiaries of trusts;
(b)	what are, and what are not, trusts’ purposes, other than the primary purpose described in subsection (1), that are primarily for the benefit of beneficiaries of the trusts.
52ZZZWC Trust deed requirements
Compliance with determination
(1)	If a determination is made under subsection (2), the trust deed for the trust must comply with the determination.
(2)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, determine one or more of the following:
(a)	the form of the trust deed required for a special disability trust;
(b)	provisions which must be included in the trust deed;
(c)	the form of those provisions;
(d)	provisions which cannot be included in the trust deed.
Contravention of trust deed
(3)	A person must not contravene a provision of the trust deed that is required by this section to be included in the deed (whether or not the provision is required to be included in any particular form).
52ZZZWD Trustee requirements
(1)	A trustee of the trust who is an individual must:
(a)	be an Australian resident; and
(b)	not have been convicted at any time (including a time before the commencement of this section) of any of the following offences:
(i)	an offence of dishonest conduct against, or arising out of, a law of the Commonwealth, a State, a Territory or a foreign country;
(ii)	an offence against, or arising out of, this Act, the Social Security Act or the Social Security (Administration) Act 1999; and
(c)	not have been disqualified at any time (including a time before the commencement of this section) from managing corporations under the Corporations Act 2001.
(2)	In addition, if a trustee of the trust is a corporation, subsection (1) applies to each director of the trustee.
52ZZZWE Trust property requirements
(1)	The assets of the trust must not include any asset transferred to the trust by the principal beneficiary of the trust, or the principal beneficiary’s partner, unless:
(a)	the transferred asset is all or part of a bequest, or of a superannuation death benefit; and
(b)	the transferor received the bequest or superannuation death benefit not more than 3 years before transferring the transferred asset.
(2)	The assets of the trust must not include any compensation received by or on behalf of the principal beneficiary.
(3)	The trust must not be used to pay an immediate family member, or a child, of the principal beneficiary for the provision to the beneficiary of:
(a)	care services; or
(b)	services for the repair or maintenance of the beneficiary’s accommodation.
Note:	For immediate family member, see subsection 5Q(1).
(4)	The trust must not be used to purchase or lease property from an immediate family member, or a child, of the principal beneficiary, even if the property is to be used for the beneficiary’s accommodation.
Note:	For immediate family member, see subsection 5Q(1).
(5)	In this section:
child, of a principal beneficiary, means the following (no matter how old the child is):
(a)	a natural child, adopted child or step-child of the beneficiary;
(b)	someone who is a child of the person within the meaning of the Family Law Act 1975.
property includes:
(a)	a right to accommodation for life in a residence; and
(b)	a life interest in a residence.
52ZZZWEA Trust expenditure requirements
Limit on expenditure for purposes other than primary purpose
(1)	If:
(a)	a determination has been made under subsection (3); and
(b)	the trust has one or more purposes, other than its primary purpose described in subsection 52ZZZWB(1), that are primarily for the benefit of the principal beneficiary;
the total value of the income and assets of the trust applied for those other purposes in a tax year must not exceed the value specified in the determination for that year.
Note:	For tax year see subsection 5Q(1).
Instruments fixing limits and purposes to be taken into account
(2)	If guidelines are made under paragraph 52ZZZWB(4)(b), the question whether a purpose for which income and assets of a trust have been applied is one of the other purposes described in subsection (1) must be decided in accordance with the guidelines.
Note:	Paragraph 52ZZZWB(4)(b) provides for guidelines for deciding what are, and what are not, trusts’ purposes, other than the primary purpose described in subsection 52ZZZWB(1), that are primarily for the benefit of beneficiaries of the trusts.
(3)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, determine the total value of income and assets of a special disability trust that may be applied in a specified tax year for purposes, other than the primary purpose described in subsection 52ZZZWB(1), that are primarily for the benefit of the principal beneficiary of the trust.
52ZZZWF Reporting requirements
(1)	The trustees of the trust must, on or before 31 March each year, give the Commission written financial statements about the trust in relation to the financial year ending on 30 June in the previous year.
(2)	The financial statements must be prepared by:
(a)	if a determination is made under subsection (4) that requires such financial statements to be prepared by a person with stated qualifications—such a person; or
(b)	whether or not such a determination is made—a person approved by the Commission for the purpose.
(3)	If a determination is made under subsection (4) that requires financial statements to include information of a stated kind, the financial statements must include information of that kind.
(4)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, make determinations for the purposes of this section.
52ZZZWG Audit requirements
Trustee duties
(1)	The trustees of the trust must, within a reasonable time after receiving a request under subsection (3):
(a)	cause an audit of the trust to be carried out in relation to the period mentioned in subsection (2); or
(b)	if, at the time of the request for the audit, an audit (the earlier requested audit) of the trust had already been carried out, or was being carried out, for the purpose of this section in relation to that period—give a copy of the report of the earlier requested audit to the person making the request.
Audit period
(2)	The audit must relate to:
(a)	the financial year ending on the 30 June last preceding the request; or
(b)	if a determination is made under subsection (7) that provides for a different period—that period.
Who may request audit
(3)	The following persons may request an audit of the trust for the purposes of this section:
(a)	the principal beneficiary;
(b)	an immediate family member of the principal beneficiary;
(c)	a person who is, under the law of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory, the legal guardian or financial administrator of the principal beneficiary;
(d)	a person who is otherwise acting as the principal beneficiary’s guardian on a long-term basis;
(e)	the Commission.
Note:	For immediate family member, see subsection 5Q(1).
Copies of audit report
(4)	If an audit report for a trust is given to the trustees for the purpose of subsection (1), the trustees must, within a reasonable time, give a copy of the report to:
(a)	the person requesting the audit; and
(b)	if the guardian or administrator mentioned in paragraph (3)(c) did not request the audit—the guardian or administrator; and
(c)	if the Commission did not request the audit—the Commission.
Auditor qualifications and required information
(5)	The audit must be prepared by:
(a)	if a determination is made under subsection (7) that requires such audits to be prepared by a person with stated qualifications—such a person; or
(b)	whether or not such a determination is made—a person approved by the Commission for the purpose.
(6)	If a determination is made under subsection (7) that requires audits requested under this section to include information of a stated kind, the audit must include information of that kind.
(7)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, make determinations for the purposes of this section.
52ZZZWH Waiver of contravention of this Division
(1)	A contravention of a requirement of this Division concerning a particular matter, in relation to a trust that would be a special disability trust if it were not for the contravention, does not prevent the trust being a special disability trust if:
(a)	the Commission, by written notice (a waiver notice) to the trustees, waives the requirement as it concerns that matter; and
(b)	in a case where the waiver notice requires the trustees to comply with any conditions relating to the matter—the trustees comply with those conditions within the time or times (if any) stated in the waiver notice.
(2)	A waiver notice has effect, subject to any conditions mentioned in paragraph (1)(b):
(a)	from:
(i)	the time of the contravention; or
(ii)	if the waiver notice states a time for the start of its period of effect that is after the time of the contravention—the stated time; and
(b)	if the waiver notice states a time for the end of its period of effect—until the stated time.
(3)	If guidelines are made under subsection (4), a decision in relation to giving a waiver notice to the trustees of the trust must be made in accordance with the guidelines.
(4)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, make guidelines for deciding any or all of the following:
(a)	whether or not to give waiver notices to trustees of trusts;
(b)	what conditions to include in waiver notices;
(c)	the periods during which waiver notices are to have effect.
Subdivision B—Income of special disability trusts
52ZZZWI Attribution of income
(1)	For the purposes of this Act, an amount of income that a special disability trust derives is taken not to be income received by any individual.
Note:	For special disability trust, see section 52ZZZW.
(2)	This section has effect despite Subdivision G of Division 11A of Part IIIB and any other provisions of this Act.
52ZZZWJ Income amounts from special disability trusts
An income amount that the principal beneficiary of a special disability trust receives is not income of the beneficiary for the purposes of this Act to the extent that consideration for the income amount was provided by a distribution from the trust.
Note 1:	For income amount, see section 5H.
Note 2:	For special disability trust, see section 52ZZZW.
Subdivision C—Assets of special disability trusts
52ZZZWK Attribution of assets
(1)	For the purposes of this Act, the assets of a special disability trust are not to be included in the assets of the principal beneficiary of the trust.
Note:	For special disability trust, see section 52ZZZW.
(2)	However, this section does not apply to the extent that the value of the assets owned by the trust exceeds the trust’s asset value limit.
(3)	The asset value limit of a special disability trust is $500,000.
Note:	This amount is indexed annually on 1 July (see sections 59B to 59E).
(4)	For the purposes of subsection (2), disregard the value of any right or interest of the trust in the principal home of the principal beneficiary of the trust.
Note:	For principal home, see subsections 5L(5) to (7).
(5)	This section has effect despite Subdivision H of Division 11A of Part IIIB and any other provisions of this Act.
Subdivision D—Transfers to special disability trusts
52ZZZWL Effect of certain transfers to special disability trusts
(1)	If a person transfers an asset (the transferred asset) to a special disability trust, the transfer is taken not to be a disposal of the asset (within the meaning of section 52E) if:
(a)	the person is an immediate family member of the principal beneficiary of the trust; and
(b)	the person, or the person’s partner:
(i)	is receiving a service pension and has reached pension age; or
(ii)	is receiving income support supplement and has reached qualifying age; or
(iia)	is receiving a veteran payment and has reached pension age (within the meaning of subsections 5QB(2), (3), (4) and (5)); or
(iii)	is receiving a social security pension and has reached pension age within the meaning of the Social Security Act; and
(c)	the person receives no consideration, and is not entitled to any consideration, for the transfer; and
(d)	the transfer is unconditional; and
(e)	the value of the transferred asset does not exceed $500,000; and
(f)	in a case where there has already been a transfer to which this section has applied (an exempt transfer), by that person or any other person, to the trust or any other special disability trust that had the same principal beneficiary—the sum of:
(i)	the values of all of the assets transferred, by exempt transfers that have already been made, to the trust or any other special disability trust that had the same principal beneficiary; and
(ii)	the value of the transferred asset;
does not exceed $500,000.
Note 1:	For special disability trust, see section 52ZZZW.
Note 2:	For immediate family member, see subsection 5Q(1).
Note 3:	For pension age (except for the purposes of subparagraph (1)(b)(iia) or (iii) of this section), see subsection 5Q(1).
Note 3A:	For qualifying age see section 5Q.
Note 4:	For service pension, social security pension and veteran payment, see subsection 5Q(1).
Note 5:	Part IIIA deals with income support supplement.
(2)	This section has effect subject to sections 52ZZZWM and 52ZZZWP.
(3)	In this section:
other special disability trust includes a special disability trust within the meaning of the Social Security Act.
value, of an asset transferred to a special disability trust, means the market value of the asset at the time of the transfer.
52ZZZWM The effect of exceeding the $500,000 limit
(1)	If section 52ZZZWL would apply to a transfer of an asset except for the fact that the value of the transferred asset exceeds $500,000, that section does not prevent the transfer from being a disposal of the asset, but the amount of the disposal or disposition is taken to be the amount of the excess.
(2)	If:
(a)	section 52ZZZWL would apply to a transfer of an asset but for the fact that the sum of:
(i)	the values of all of the exempt transfers that have already been made to the trust or any other special disability trust that had the same principal beneficiary; and
(ii)	the value of the transferred asset;
exceeds $500,000; and
(b)	that sum would not exceed $500,000 if the value of the transferred asset were disregarded;
that section does not prevent the transfer from being a disposal or disposition of the asset, but the amount of the disposal or disposition is taken to be the amount of the excess referred to in paragraph (a).
(3)	This section has effect subject to section 52ZZZWP.
(4)	In this section:
other special disability trust includes a special disability trust within the meaning of the Social Security Act.
value, of an asset transferred to a special disability trust, means the market value of the asset at the time of the transfer.
52ZZZWN Transfers by the immediate family members prior to reaching pension age etc.
(1)	If:
(a)	an immediate family member of the principal beneficiary of a special disability trust transfers an asset to the trust; and
(b)	at the time of the transfer, neither the immediate family member nor the partner of the immediate family member is a person who:
(i)	is receiving a service pension and has reached pension age; or
(ii)	is receiving income support supplement and has reached qualifying age; or
(iia)	is receiving a veteran payment and has reached pension age (within the meaning of subsections 5QB(2), (3), (4) and (5)); or
(iii)	is receiving a social security pension and has reached pension age within the meaning of the Social Security Act;
the immediate family member is taken for the purposes of this Division only to transfer the asset to the trust at the earliest time at which subparagraph (b)(i), (ii), (iia) or (iii) applies to the immediate family member or partner.
Note 1:	For special disability trust, see section 52ZZZW.
Note 2:	For immediate family member, see subsection 5Q(1).
Note 3:	For pension age (except for the purposes of subparagraph (1)(b)(iia) or (iii) of this section), see subsection 5Q(1).
Note 3A:	For qualifying age see section 5Q.
Note 4:	For service pension, social security pension and veteran payment, see subsection 5Q(1).
Note 5:	Part IIIA deals with income support supplement.
(2)	However, if under subsection (1) transfers of assets to the trust by different immediate family members are taken to have been made on the same day, the transfers are taken to have been made on that day in the order in which they would have been taken to be made but for this Division.
Note:	For immediate family member, see subsection 5Q(1).
(3)	This section does not affect the operation of Division 11 of Part IIIB or any other provision of this Act outside of this Division.
52ZZZWO Transfers by principal beneficiaries or partners
(1)	If a person transfers an asset to a special disability trust, the transfer is taken not to be a disposal of the asset (within the meaning of section 52E) if:
(a)	the person is the principal beneficiary of the trust, or the principal beneficiary’s partner; and
(b)	the person receives no consideration, and is not entitled to any consideration, for the transfer; and
(c)	the transfer is unconditional.
Note 1:	For special disability trust, see section 52ZZZW.
Note 2:	Section 52ZZZWE limits the circumstances in which the principal beneficiary or the principal beneficiary’s partner can transfer assets to the trust.
(2)	This section has effect subject to section 52ZZZWP.
52ZZZWP Cessation of special disability trusts
(1)	If:
(a)	a special disability trust ceases to exist or ceases to be a special disability trust; and
(b)	a person had transferred an asset to the trust during the period of 5 years immediately preceding the cessation; and
(c)	section 52ZZZWL, 52ZZZWM or 52ZZZWO applied to the transfer;
then the transfer is taken, after the cessation, to be a disposal or disposition of the asset that occurred at the time of the transfer.
(2)	The amount of the disposal or disposition is taken to be the amount worked out using the formula:
where:
asset value means:
(a)	if section 52ZZZWL or 52ZZZWO applied to the transfer—the value of the asset at the time of the transfer; or
(b)	if subsection 52ZZZWM(1) applied to the transfer—$500,000; or
(c)	if subsection 52ZZZWM(2) applied to the transfer—the difference between the value of the asset at the time of the transfer and the amount that was taken under that subsection to be the amount of the disposal or disposition of the asset.
final value of trust assets means the value of all of the assets of the trust at the time of the cessation.
initial value of trust assets means the value of all of the assets of the trust at the time of the transfer.
subsection 52ZZZWM(2) amount means the amount (if any) that was taken under subsection 52ZZZWM(2) to be the amount of the disposal or disposition of the asset.
(3)	If the special disability trust ceases to exist, or ceases to be a special disability trust, because the principal beneficiary dies, the value of the asset at the time of the transfer is taken for the purposes of this section to be the value of so much (if any) of the asset as has not been returned to the person who had transferred the asset to the trust.
(4)	This section does not affect the application of section 52ZZZWL, 52ZZZWM or 52ZZZWO to the transfer prior to the cessation.
52ZZZWQ Effect of this Subdivision
This Subdivision (other than section 52ZZZWN) has effect despite Subdivision B of Division 11 of Part IIIB and any other provisions of this Act.
	Division 12 — Service pensioner and income support supplement recipient benefits
Subdivision A—Introduction
53 Fringe benefits and treatment at Departmental expense for certain service pensioners
(1)	If a person is eligible for fringe benefits, benefits and concessions of various kinds may be made available to the person by the Commonwealth, State and Territory governments and authorities and local authorities.
Note:	If a person is eligible for fringe benefits in accordance with this Division, benefits and concessions under the National Health Act 1953 may be made available to the person.
(2)	If:
(a)	a veteran is receiving an age or invalidity service pension; and
(b)	the veteran satisfies the conditions in section 53D;
the veteran may be entitled to certain medical treatment at Departmental expense.
(3)	Section 85 provides further treatment entitlements for veterans.
Subdivision B—Fringe benefits
53A Fringe benefits
General rule
(1)	A person who is receiving a service pension or income support supplement is eligible for fringe benefits.
Certain persons eligible before 1 January 2017
(1A)	A person is eligible for fringe benefits if:
(a)	immediately before 1 January 2017, the person was receiving a service pension or income support supplement; and
(b)	the Commission is satisfied that the rate of that pension or supplement was nil on 1 January 2017 because of the operation of the amendments made by Part 1 of Schedule 3 to the Social Services Legislation Amendment (Fair and Sustainable Pensions) Act 2015; and
(c)	the person is not otherwise eligible under this section for fringe benefits.
Certain recipients of invalidity service pension who cease to be permanently incapacitated for work
(2)	If:
(a)	a person is receiving an invalidity service pension; and
(b)	the person ceases to be eligible for that pension because the person ceases to be permanently incapacitated for work; and
(c)	the circumstances in which the person ceases to be permanently incapacitated for work are continued fringe benefits eligibility circumstances in accordance with a determination under section 53B;
the person remains eligible for fringe benefits for the shorter of the following periods:
(d)	the period those continued fringe benefits eligibility circumstances continue to exist;
(e)	the period of 12 months beginning on the day the person ceased to be eligible for that pension.
Former recipients with employment income
(3)	If:
(a)	a person is receiving service pension or income support supplement; and
(b)	the pension or supplement ceases to be payable to the person because the rate of the person’s pension or supplement is nil; and
(c)	the rate of the person’s pension or supplement is nil because of the occurrence of an event or change of circumstances that results in the person’s income reduced rate (see subsection (4)) being nil; and
(d)	but for the person’s income reduced rate being nil, the person would have continued to be eligible for fringe benefits because the person would have continued to receive the pension or supplement; and
(e)	at the time of the cessation, the ordinary income of the person (as used to work out the person’s income reduced rate) includes income for remunerative work performed by the person in Australia as an employee in an employer/employee relationship;
the person remains eligible for fringe benefits for the period of 2 years beginning on the day the pension or supplement ceased to be payable to the person.
(4)	For the purposes of subsection (3), a person’s income reduced rate, in relation to a service pension or income support supplement, is the rate worked out in relation to that pension or supplement at step 6 of method statement 1 or step 6 of method statement 5, as the case may be, in Module A of the Rate Calculator.
Partners of certain former recipients with employment
(5)	If:
(a)	because of the occurrence of an event or change of circumstances, a person is:
(i)	eligible for fringe benefits under subsection (3) because the person’s pension or supplement ceases to be payable to the person; or
(ii)	qualified for a pensioner concession card under section 1061ZCA of the Social Security Act because subsection (2) of that section applies to the person as a result of age pension ceasing to be payable to the person; or
(iii)	qualified for a pensioner concession card under section 1061ZD of the Social Security Act because subsection (2) of that section applies to the person as a result of the person ceasing to be qualified for disability support pension; or
(iv)	qualified for a pensioner concession card under section 1061ZD of the Social Security Act because subsection (3) of that section applies to the person as a result of disability support pension ceasing to be payable to the person; and
(b)	immediately before the event or change of circumstances, the person’s partner was receiving service pension or income support supplement; and
(c)	the partner’s pension or supplement ceases to be payable to the partner because the rate of the partner’s pension or supplement is nil; and
(d)	the partner’s cessation of payability occurs because of the occurrence of the same event or change of circumstances that resulted in the person’s cessation of payability or qualification;
the partner remains eligible for fringe benefits for the period of 2 years beginning on the day the pension or supplement ceased to be payable to the partner.
(6)	To avoid doubt, subsection (5) applies to the partner even if the partner ceases to be a member of the couple after that event or change of circumstances.
53B Commission must determine continued fringe benefits eligibility circumstances
(1)	The Commission must, by written determination, state that specified circumstances in which persons cease to be permanently incapacitated for work are continued fringe benefits eligibility circumstances for the purposes of subsection 53A(2).
Variation or revocation
(2)	The Commission may, by written determination, vary or revoke a determination under subsection (1).
Legislative instrument
(3)	A determination under this section is a legislative instrument.
Subdivision C—Treatment at Departmental expense
53D Eligibility for treatment at Departmental expense
(1)	A veteran who is receiving an age or invalidity service pension is eligible to be provided with treatment under Part V for any injury suffered, or disease contracted, by the veteran if:
(a)	the veteran is a veteran to whom section 53E applies; and
(ab)	the veteran is a veteran within the meaning of paragraph (a) of the definition of veteran in subsection 5C(1); and
(b)	the veteran is not a veteran only because the veteran has rendered service as described in item 3 of the table in subsection 6A(1) or as described in subsection 6C(2).
Note 2:	A partner service pensioner may be eligible to be provided with treatment under Part V if he or she is receiving a pension under Part II at 50% of the general rate or higher (see subsection 85(7)).
Note 3:	Some veterans who are not receiving an age or invalidity service pension because of Division 3 of Part IIIB are treated as continuing to be eligible under section 53D to be provided with treatment under Part V (see section 83 of the Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1992).
Note 4:	A veteran who was taken to be eligible for fringe benefits because of subsection 17(1) or (2) of the Veterans’ Entitlements (Rewrite) Transition Act 1991 as in force immediately before the commencement of Schedule 5 to the Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget and Compensation Measures) Act 1997 and who is receiving an age or invalidity service pension is eligible under section 53D to be provided with treatment under Part V if paragraph 53D(1)(b) applies to the veteran.
(2)	Paragraph (1)(b) does not make a veteran ineligible to be provided with treatment under Part V if the veteran satisfies the Commission that the veteran was domiciled in Australia or an external Territory immediately before the veteran’s appointment or enlistment for service as described in item 3 of the table in subsection 6A(1) or as described in subsection 6C(2).
Note:	Section 11B may affect a person’s domicile immediately before appointment or enlistment.
(3)	If a veteran’s service pension is suspended, the Commission may determine that the veteran is to be treated, for the purposes of this section, as if the veteran were continuing to receive the service pension during the whole or a specified part of the period of suspension.
(4)	A determination under subsection (3) must be in writing.
(4A)	If:
(a)	a veteran begins to receive a veteran payment on a day; and
(b)	on the day before that day the veteran was receiving an age or invalidity service pension;
then, for the purposes of this section, the veteran is taken to be receiving an age or invalidity service pension, and paragraph (1)(a) is taken to be satisfied, while the veteran is receiving that veteran payment.
(5)	This section applies to an injury suffered, or a disease contracted, by a veteran whether before or after the commencement of this section.
53E Veterans to satisfy certain conditions
(1)	This section applies to a veteran if:
(a)	the veteran is permanently blind; or
(b)	the veteran’s rate of service pension is neither income reduced nor assets reduced; or
(c)	the veteran’s rate of service pension is either income reduced or assets reduced, but the reduction does not exceed the income/assets reduction limit applicable to the veteran.
Note:	For income/assets reduction limit see subsection (2).
(2)	The income/assets reduction limit applicable to a veteran is worked out by using Table 53E. Work out which item in the table applies to the veteran by identifying his or her family situation. The applicable income/assets reduction limit is the amount in column 3 of that item.
Table 53E—Income/Assets Reduction Limit
Column 1
Item
Column 2
Family situation
Column 3
Basic reduction per year
Column 4
Basic reduction per fortnight
1
Not a member of a couple
$1,924
$74
2
Partnered
$1,664
$64
Note 1:	For member of a couple and partnered see section 5E.
Note 3:	Members of illness separated and respite care couples are covered by item 2 of the table.
Note 4:	The basic reduction and additional reduction are indexed 6 monthly in line with CPI increases (see sections 59B to 59E).
(3)	If, on a particular day:
(a)	the annual rate of a veteran’s ordinary income increases; and
(b)	as a result of the increase, the veteran’s rate of service pension is income reduced by an amount that is not more than 150% of the income/assets reduction limit applicable to the veteran;
this section continues to apply to the veteran until:
(c)	the end of the period of 13 weeks starting on that day; or
(d)	the reduction exceeds 150% of the income/assets reduction limit applicable to the veteran;
whichever happens first.
	Division 12A — Payments after bereavement
Subdivision A—Bereavement period
53H Definition
In this Division:
bereavement period, in relation to a person’s death, means the period of 98 days starting on the day on which the person died.
Note:	Payments under this Division are not affected by unrepaid advance payments of pension.
Subdivision B—Death of pensioner’s partner (where partner was receiving a pension or a social security pension)
53J Application
This Subdivision applies if:
(a)	a person (the pensioner) is receiving a pension; and
(b)	the pensioner is a member of a couple; and
(c)	the other member of the couple (the partner) dies; and
(d)	immediately before the partner died, the partner was receiving a pension or a social security pension.
53K What happens if pensioner’s reassessed rate equals or exceeds combined pensioner couple rate
(1)	This section applies during the bereavement period if the rate of pension applicable to the pensioner as a result of the partner’s death is equal to or greater than the sum of the rates of pension or social security pension that were payable to the pensioner and the partner on the last day of the last pension period that ended before the partner died.
(2)	The rate of pension that becomes applicable in respect of the pensioner as a result of the partner’s death applies with effect from the day of the partner’s death.
(3)	Part of the rate of pension payable to the pensioner is taken to be bereavement payment. The part concerned is equal to the rate of pension or social security pension payable to the partner on the last day of the last pension period that ended before the partner died.
(4)	This section has effect subject to sections 53M and 53NAA.
53L What happens if pensioner’s reassessed rate is less than combined pensioner couple rate
(1)	This section applies during the bereavement period if the rate of pension applicable to the pensioner as a result of the partner’s death is less than the sum of the rates of pension or social security pension that were payable to the pensioner and the partner on the last day of the last pension period that ended before the partner died.
(2)	Pension continues to be payable to the pensioner during the bereavement period at the rate at which it was payable immediately before the partner’s death.
(3)	The rate of pension that, apart from subsection (2), would be applicable in respect of the pensioner as a result of the partner’s death applies with effect from the day after the end of the bereavement period.
(4)	There is payable to the pensioner, for each day in the bereavement period, a bereavement payment calculated at the rate of the pension or social security pension that was payable to the partner on the last day of the last pension period that ended before the partner died.
(5)	All or any of the bereavement payments payable to the pensioner under subsection (4) may be paid in advance in a lump sum.
(6)	This section has effect despite subsection 38C(2) but is subject to sections 53M and 53NAA.
53M Determination of amount of pension and social security pension
(1)	This section applies in determining for the purposes of section 53K or 53L the rates of pension or social security pension that were payable to the pensioner and the partner on the last day of the last pension period that ended before the day of the partner’s death.
(2)	If the pensioner and partner were an illness separated couple or a respite care couple on the last day of the last pension period that ended before the day of the partner’s death, the rates of pension or social security pension referred to in subsection (1) are to be worked out as if the pensioner and partner were not members of an illness separated couple or respite care couple but remained members of a couple.
(3)	If the partner was a war widow or war widower who was receiving a service pension, the rate of that pension that was payable to the partner on the last day of the last pension period that ended before the day of the partner’s death is taken to be the rate that would have been payable if Method statement 1 or Method statement 2 (whichever is appropriate) in Module A of the Rate Calculator had applied in working out the rate of the pension and Method statement 3 or Method statement 4, as the case may be, in that Module had not applied.
(4)	If the partner was a war widow or war widower who was receiving an income support supplement, the rate of that supplement that was payable to the partner on the last day of the last pension period that ended before the day of the partner’s death is taken to be:
(a)	in respect of a partner who was not permanently blind—the rate that would have been payable if the ceiling rate were greater than the adjusted income reduced rate and the assets reduced rate; or
(b)	in respect of a partner who was permanently blind—the sum of:
(i)	the maximum basic rate under point SCH6-B1; and
(ii)	the partner’s pension supplement amount (worked out as if the partner was receiving a service pension worked out under subpoint SCH6-A1(2) of Schedule 6).
(5)	In determining under subsection (4) the rate of the income support supplement that was payable to the partner on the last day of the last pension period that ended before the day of the partner’s death, it is to be assumed that the adjusted income of the partner did not include the income referred to in paragraph (c), (ca) or (cb) of the definition of adjusted income in subsection 5H(1).
(6)	If the partner was a war widow or war widower who was receiving a social security pension, the rate of that pension that was payable to the partner on the last day of the last pension period that ended before the day of the partner’s death is taken to be the rate that would have been payable if:
(a)	subsections 1064(5) and (6) and 1065(4) and (5) of the Social Security Act had not been enacted; and
(b)	the ordinary income of the partner did not include any instalment of pension that was payable to the partner under subsection 30(1).
53N Transfer to another pension
(1)	This section applies if, on a day during the bereavement period, the pensioner:
(a)	ceases to receive the pension; and
(b)	begins to receive another pension or to receive a social security pension.
(2)	If the pensioner receives, for a day occurring during the remainder of the bereavement period, a payment of the other pension or of the social security pension, part of the payment is taken to be a bereavement payment. The part concerned is the amount representing the rate of pension or social security pension payable to the partner on the last day of the last pension period that ended before the day of the partner’s death.
(3)	This section has effect subject to section 53NAA.
53NAA Matters affecting bereavement payments under this Subdivision
If:
(a)	bereavement payments mentioned in subsection 53K(3), 53L(4) or 53N(2) are payable to the pensioner in relation to the death of the partner; and
(b)	after the partner died, an amount of a pension, or a social security pension, to which the partner would have been entitled if the partner had not died has been paid under this Act or the Social Security Act 1991; and
(c)	the Commission is not satisfied that the pensioner has not had the benefit of that amount;
the following provisions have effect:
(d)	the amount referred to in paragraph (b) is not recoverable from the pensioner or from the personal representative of the partner, except to the extent (if any) that the amount exceeds the amount of the bereavement payments referred to in paragraph (a);
(e)	the amount of the bereavement payments referred to in paragraph (a) is to be reduced by the amount referred to in paragraph (b).
53NA No liability of financial institution for certain payments to pensioner
(1)	This section applies if:
(a)	after the partner died, an amount (the partner’s amount) of pension or social security pension to which the partner would have been entitled if the partner had not died is paid into an account with a financial institution; and
(b)	the institution pays to the pensioner, out of that account, an amount that is not more than the partner’s amount.
(2)	The financial institution is not liable to any action, claim or demand in respect of the payment to the pensioner.
(3)	Subsection (2) has effect despite any other law.
Subdivision C—Death of pensioner
53P Application
This Subdivision applies if:
(a)	a person (the pensioner) is receiving a pension; and
(b)	either:
(i)	the pensioner is not a member of a couple; or
(ii)	the pensioner is a member of a couple and the pensioner’s partner is not receiving a service pension or income support supplement, is not receiving a social security pension and is not receiving a social security benefit; and
(c)	the pensioner dies.
53Q Payment of one instalment
(1)	Sections 123 to 123E do not apply as a result of the pensioner’s death, but there is payable to any person whom the Commission thinks appropriate an amount equal to the amount of pension that would have been payable to the pensioner for the period of 14 days after the day on which the pensioner died calculated at the rate at which pension would have been payable to the pensioner (including, to remove any doubt, any amount of pension payable under this Division) on those days if the pensioner had not died.
(2)	If the amount is paid under subsection (1) in respect of the pensioner, the Commonwealth is not liable to any action, claim or demand for further payment under that subsection in respect of the pension.
(3)	If a lump sum bereavement payment made to the pensioner under this Division before the pensioner’s death included an amount for a pension period that occurred after the day of the pensioner’s death, the amount is not recoverable from the pensioner’s estate.
Subdivision D—Death of dependent child
53R Application
This Subdivision applies if:
(a)	a person (the pensioner) is receiving a pension; and
(b)	a dependent child dies.
53S When reassessed pension rate in respect of pensioner comes into effect
(1)	Pension continues to be payable to the pensioner during the bereavement period as if the child had not died.
(2)	The rate of pension that becomes applicable to the pensioner as a result of the child’s death applies with effect from the day after the end of the bereavement period.
53T Bereavement payment
(1)	Part of each instalment of pension that is paid to the pensioner for a pension payday that occurs during the bereavement period is taken to be a bereavement payment. The part concerned is so much of the instalment as related to the child.
(2)	All or any of the bereavement payments payable to the pensioner under subsection (1) may be paid in advance in a lump sum.
	Division 13 — Recipient obligations
54 Secretary may require notification of an event or change of circumstances
(1)	The Secretary may give a person:
(a)	to whom a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment is being paid; or
(b)	whose claim or application for a service pension or income support supplement, or whose eligibility for a veteran payment, is under consideration by the Commission or the Administrative Review Tribunal; or
(c)	who is receiving benefits under Division 12;
a notice that requires the person to inform the Department, or an officer specified in the notice, if:
(d)	a specified event or change of circumstances occurs; or
(e)	the person becomes aware that a specified event or change of circumstances is likely to occur.
(2)	A reference in subsection (1) to a person to whom a service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment is being paid includes a person to whom the whole or a part of the pension, supplement or payment is being paid for the purpose of being applied for the benefit of the person entitled to the pension, supplement or payment.
(3)	An event or change of circumstances is not to be specified in a notice under subsection (1) unless the occurrence of that event or change of circumstances might affect:
(a)	the payment to the person of the pension or veteran payment; or
(b)	the provision of benefits under Division 12.
(4)	A notice under subsection (1):
(a)	must be in writing; and
(b)	may be given personally or by post; and
(c)	must specify the period within which, and, subject to subsection (4A), the manner in which the person is to give the information to the Department or specified officer.
(4A)	A document lodged as a consequence of a notice issued under subsection (1) that requires a person to inform the Department of the occurrence, or likely occurrence, of a specified event or change of circumstances:
(a)	is to be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T; and
(b)	is taken to have been lodged on a day determined under that section.
(5)	The period specified under paragraph (4)(c) must end not later than 14 days after:
(a)	the day on which the event or change of circumstances occurs; or
(b)	the day on which the person becomes aware that the event or change of circumstances is likely to occur.
(5A)	If the Secretary is satisfied that there are special circumstances related to the person to whom the notice under subsection (1) is to be given, the period to be specified under paragraph (4)(c) is such period as the Secretary directs in writing, being a period that ends not less than 15 days, and not more than 28 days, after:
(a)	the day on which the event or change of circumstances occurs; or
(b)	the day on which the person becomes aware that the event or change of circumstances is likely to occur.
(5AA)	In spite of subsection (5), if a notice under subsection (1) specifies an event that consists of the death of a person, the person to whom the notice is given is taken, for the purposes of this Act, to have informed the Department or the officer specified in the notice, as the case may be, of the death within the period specified in the notice if he or she informs the Department or officer of the death within the bereavement period.
(6)	A person must not fail to comply with a notice under subsection (1).
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 6 months or 10 penalty units, or both.
(7)	An offence under subsection (6) is an offence of strict liability.
Note:	For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code.
(8)	A person does not commit an offence under subsection (6) to the extent that the person is not capable of complying with the notice.
Note:	The defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (8). See subsection 13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
54A Secretary may require recipient to give information relevant to payment of service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment
(1)	The Secretary may give a person:
(a)	to whom a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment is being paid; or
(b)	whose claim or application for a service pension or income support supplement, or whose eligibility for a veteran payment, is under consideration by the Commission or the Administrative Review Tribunal; or
(c)	who is receiving benefits under Division 12;
a notice that requires the person to give the Department, or an officer specified in the notice, a statement in writing about a matter that might affect:
(d)	the payment to the person of the service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment; or
(e)	the provision of benefits under Division 12.
(2)	A reference in subsection (1) to a person to whom a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment is being paid includes a person to whom the whole or a part of the pension, supplement or payment is being paid for the purpose of being applied for the benefit of the person entitled to the pension, supplement or payment.
(3)	A notice under subsection (1):
(a)	must be in writing; and
(b)	may be given personally or by post; and
(c)	must specify the period within which, and, subject to subsection (3A), the manner in which the person is to give the information to the Department or specified officer.
(3A)	A document lodged as a consequence of a notice issued under subsection (1) that requires a person to inform the Department about a matter of a kind specified in that subsection:
(a)	is to be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T; and
(b)	is taken to have been lodged on a day determined under that section.
(4)	The period specified under paragraph (3)(c) must end at least 14 days after the day on which the notice is given.
(5)	A statement given in response to a notice under subsection (1) must be in accordance with a form approved by the Commission.
(6)	A person must not fail to comply with a notice under subsection (1).
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 6 months or 10 penalty units, or both.
(7)	An offence under subsection (6) is an offence of strict liability.
Note:	For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code.
(8)	A person does not commit an offence under subsection (6) to the extent that the person is not capable of complying with the notice.
Note:	The defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (8). See subsection 13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
54AA Secretary may require recipient to give information, produce documents or appear before an officer
(1)	The Secretary may give to a person who is receiving a service pension, income support supplement, a veteran payment or benefits under Division 12 a notice requiring the person:
(a)	to provide the Department, or an officer specified in the notice, with information; or
(b)	to produce to the Department, or an officer specified in the notice, documents in the custody or under the control of the person; or
(c)	to appear before an officer of the Department specified in the notice to answer questions;
relating to a matter that may affect the payment of the pension, supplement or payment or the provision of the benefits.
(2)	A reference in subsection (1) to a person receiving a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment includes a person to whom the whole or a part of the pension, supplement or payment is being paid for the purpose of being applied for the benefit of the person entitled to the pension, supplement or payment.
(3)	The Secretary may give to a person whose claim or application for a service pension or income support supplement is under consideration by the Commission or the Administrative Review Tribunal a notice requiring the person:
(a)	to provide the Department, or an officer specified in the notice, with information; or
(b)	to produce to the Department, or an officer specified in the notice, documents in the custody or under the control of the person; or
(c)	to appear before an officer of the Department specified in the notice to answer questions;
relating to the claim or application.
(4)	Subject to subsections (4A) and (5), the notice:
(a)	must be in writing; and
(b)	may be given personally or by post; and
(c)	must specify:
(i)	when and how the person is to provide the information or produce the documents; or
(ii)	when and where the person is to appear before the officer.
(4A)	A document lodged as a consequence of a notice under subsection (1) or (3) that requires a person to provide the Department with information of a kind to which paragraph (a) of that subsection applies:
(a)	is to be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T; and
(b)	is taken to have been lodged on a day determined under that section.
(5)	The person must not be required to provide the information, produce the documents or appear to answer questions within a period of less than 14 days after the notice is given.
(6)	The Secretary may require the person to give or verify the information or answers:
(a)	on oath or affirmation; and
(b)	either orally or in writing.
The Secretary or specified officer may administer an oath or affirmation to the person.
(7)	A person must not fail to comply with a notice under subsection (1) or (3).
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 6 months.
(8)	An offence under subsection (7) is an offence of strict liability.
Note:	For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code.
(9)	A person does not commit an offence under subsection (7) to the extent that the person is not capable of complying with the notice.
Note:	The defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (9). See subsection 13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
54B Document served with a section 54 notice
(1)	A notice under subsection 54(1) is taken to specify an event or change of circumstances if:
(a)	the notice refers to a document that sets out the event or change of circumstances; and
(b)	a copy of the document is given to the person with the notice.
(2)	If a notice specifies an event or change of circumstances by reference to a document under subsection (1), the notice may specify the period within which a person is to give the information to the Department or specified officer by reference to the period set out in the document for notification of the event or change of circumstances.
54BA Secretary may require person or person’s partner to take action to obtain a comparable foreign pension
(1)	If:
(a)	a person is receiving a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment; and
(b)	the Secretary is satisfied that the person may be entitled to a comparable foreign pension if the person applied for that pension;
the Secretary may give the person a notice that requires the person to take reasonable action to obtain the comparable foreign pension.
Note:	For the consequences of a failure to comply with the notice see section 56EB.
(1A)	If:
(a)	a person is receiving a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment; and
(b)	the Secretary is satisfied that the person’s partner (if any) may be entitled to a comparable foreign pension if the partner applied for that pension;
the Secretary may give the person a notice that requires the partner to take reasonable action to obtain the comparable foreign pension.
Note:	For the consequences of a failure to comply with the notice see section 56EB.
(2)	A notice under subsection (1) or (1A):
(a)	must be in writing; and
(b)	must be given personally or by post; and
(c)	must specify the period within which the reasonable action is to be taken.
(3)	The period specified under paragraph (2)(c) must end at least 14 days after the day on which the notice is given.
(4)	For the purposes of this section, a person takes reasonable action to obtain a comparable foreign pension only if the person takes reasonable action to obtain the pension at the highest rate applicable to the person.
54C Interpretation
In this Division:
officer means a person performing duties, or exercising powers or functions, under or in relation to this Act.
person includes an unincorporated body.
	Division 14 — Pensioners in certain institutions
55 Service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment may be suspended or forfeited when person in gaol or in psychiatric confinement following criminal charge
(1)	Subject to subsection (3), an instalment of a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment is not payable to a person in respect of a day on which the person is:
(a)	in gaol; or
(b)	undergoing psychiatric confinement because the person has been charged with an offence.
Note:	While an instalment is not payable to a person, the person is not entitled to benefits under Division 12 because the person is not receiving a service pension or income support supplement unless a determination is in force under subsection 53D(3), 55A(1) or 85(8).
(3)	Subsection (1) does not apply to so much of an instalment as has been redirected under a direction given under section 55A.
Meaning of in gaol
(4)	For the purposes of this Act, a person is in gaol if:
(a)	the person is being lawfully detained (in prison or elsewhere) while under sentence for conviction of an offence and not on release on parole or licence; or
(b)	the person is undergoing a period of custody pending trial or sentencing for an offence.
Meaning of psychiatric confinement
(5)	Subject to subsection (6), psychiatric confinement in relation to a person includes confinement in:
(a)	a psychiatric section of a hospital; and
(b)	any other place where persons with psychiatric disabilities are, from time to time, confined.
(6)	The confinement of a person in a psychiatric institution during a period when the person is undertaking a course of rehabilitation is not to be taken to be psychiatric confinement.
55A Instalments may be redirected to partner or child
(1)	If:
(a)	an instalment of a person’s service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment would, but for this section, not be payable because of section 55; and
(b)	the person has a partner or a child;
the Commission may direct that the whole, or a specified part, of the instalment is to be paid to:
(c)	the partner; or
(d)	the child; or
(e)	someone else approved by the Commission.
(2)	A payment made under paragraph (1)(e) is to be applied for the benefit of the partner or the child.
(3)	If a payment is made under subsection (1) to the partner or a child of the person who is in gaol or undergoing psychiatric confinement because the person has been charged with an offence, the payment is to be taken, for all the purposes of this Act, to be a payment made to the person in gaol or psychiatric confinement.
Note:	This subsection has the effect that the person is receiving the service pension or income support supplement on a payday if the instalment for that payday has been wholly or partly redirected under this section: for instance, the person would be eligible for fringe benefits. This person is not eligible for another income support payment.
	Division 15 — Variation and termination
56 Automatic termination or rate reduction—recipient complying with section 54 notification obligations
(1)	Where:
(a)	a person who is receiving a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment is given a notice under section 54; and
(b)	the notice requires the person to inform the Department or a specified officer of the occurrence of an event or change in circumstances within a specified period (in this section called the notification period); and
(c)	the event or change in circumstances occurs; and
(d)	the person informs the Department or specified officer of the occurrence of the event or change in circumstances within the notification period in accordance with the notice; and
(e)	because of the occurrence of the event or change in circumstances:
(i)	the person ceases to be eligible for the pension, income support supplement or veteran payment; or
(ii)	the pension, income support supplement or veteran payment would, but for this section, cease to be payable to the person;
the pension, income support supplement or veteran payment continues to be payable to the person until the end of the notification period and then ceases to be payable to the person.
Note:	If a person ceases to receive a service pension or income support supplement, the person’s eligibility for benefits under Division 12 will generally cease.
(2)	If the pension, income support supplement or veteran payment ceases to be payable to the person under subsection (1), the pension, supplement or payment is cancelled.
Note:	In some circumstances, the Commission may decide that the pension, supplement or payment is not cancelled but suspended (see sections 56ED and 56EE).
(3)	If:
(a)	a person who is receiving a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment is given a notice under section 54; and
(b)	the notice requires the person to inform the Department or a specified officer of the occurrence of an event or change in circumstances within a specified period (the notification period); and
(c)	the event or change in circumstances occurs; and
(d)	the person informs the Department or specified officer of the occurrence of the event or change in circumstances within the notification period in accordance with the notice; and
(e)	because of the occurrence of the event or change in circumstances, the person’s rate of pension, income support supplement or veteran payment is to be reduced;
then, except as otherwise provided by this Act, the pension, income support supplement or veteran payment becomes payable to the person at the reduced rate immediately after the end of the notification period.
56A Automatic termination—recipient not complying with section 54 notification obligations
(1)	Where:
(a)	a person who is receiving a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment is given a notice under section 54; and
(b)	the notice requires the person to inform the Department or a specified officer of the occurrence of an event or change in circumstances within a specified period (in this section called the notification period); and
(c)	the event or change in circumstances occurs; and
(d)	the person does not inform the Department or specified officer of the occurrence of the event or change in circumstances within the notification period in accordance with the notice; and
(e)	because of the occurrence of the event or the change in circumstances:
(i)	the person ceases to be eligible for the pension, income support supplement or veteran payment; or
(ii)	the pension, income support supplement or veteran payment ceases to be payable to the person;
the pension, income support supplement or veteran payment ceases to be payable to the person on the day on which the event or change in circumstances occurs.
Note:	If a person ceases to receive a service pension or income support supplement, the person’s eligibility for benefits under Division 12 will generally cease.
(2)	If the pension, income support supplement or veteran payment ceases to be payable to the person under subsection (1), the pension, supplement or payment is cancelled.
Note:	In some circumstances, the Commission may decide that the pension, supplement or payment is not cancelled but suspended (see sections 56ED and 56EE).
56B Automatic rate reduction—recipient not complying with section 54 notification obligations
Where:
(a)	a person who is receiving a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment is given a notice under section 54; and
(b)	the notice requires the person to inform the Department or a specified officer of the occurrence of an event or change in circumstances within a specified period (in this section called the notification period); and
(c)	the event or change in circumstances occurs; and
(d)	the person does not inform the Department or specified officer of the occurrence of the event or change in circumstances within the notification period in accordance with the notice; and
(e)	because of the occurrence of the event or change in circumstances, the person’s rate of pension, income support supplement or veteran payment is to be reduced;
then, except where otherwise provided for by this Act, the pension, income support supplement or veteran payment becomes payable to the person at the reduced rate on the day on which the event or change in circumstances occurs.
56C Rate increase determination
(1)	If the Commission is satisfied that the rate at which a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment is being, or has been, paid is less than the rate provided for by this Act, the Commission must, subject to section 56DA, determine that the rate is to be increased to the rate specified in the determination.
(2)	If:
(a)	either:
(i)	a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment has not been, or is not being, paid to a person because the rate of the pension, supplement or payment was determined to be nil; or
(ii)	a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment has not been, or is not being, paid to a person because the rate of the pension, supplement or payment was reduced to nil under section 56 or 56A; and
(b)	the Commission is satisfied that the rate of the person’s pension, supplement or payment as provided for by this Act is no longer nil;
the Commission must, subject to section 56DA, determine that the rate at which the pension, supplement or payment is payable to the person is the rate specified in the determination.
(3)	A determination:
(a)	must be in writing; and
(b)	must specify a rate assessed as provided for by this Act; and
(c)	may be made by the Commission on its own initiative or following a request by the person for an increase in the rate of the pension, supplement or payment.
Note:	For the date of effect of a determination under this section, see sections 56G and 56GA.
(4)	If the Commission makes a determination under this section in respect of a person’s service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment, the service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment is payable to the person at the rate specified in the determination.
56D Rate reduction determination
(1)	If the Commission is satisfied that the rate at which service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment is being, or has been, paid is more than the rate provided for by this Act, the Commission must, subject to section 56DA, determine that the rate is to be reduced to the rate specified in the determination.
Note 1:	A determination under this section is not necessary in a case where an automatic rate reduction is produced by section 56B.
Note 2:	For the date of effect of a determination under this section, see section 56H.
(2)	A determination under subsection (1):
(a)	must be in writing; and
(b)	must specify a rate assessed as provided for by this Act; and
(c)	may be made by the Commission on its own initiative or following a request by the person for a decrease in the rate of the pension, supplement or payment.
(3)	If the Commission makes a determination under this section in respect of a person’s service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment, the service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment is payable to the person at the rate specified in the determination.
56DA No rate increase or reduction for small amounts
(1)	The Commission must not make a determination under section 56C or 56D if the amount by which the rate of the service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment would be increased or reduced (as the case may be) under the determination would be less than $26 per annum.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not apply if the increase or reduction in the rate of the pension, supplement or payment is necessary as a result of a matter, or change in circumstances, affecting the payment of the pension, supplement or payment that the Commission has declared, by notice published in the Gazette, to be a matter, or change in circumstances, whose effects on the payment of a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment is to be disregarded for the purposes of this subsection.
56E Cancellation or suspension determination—general
(1)	If the Commission is satisfied that a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment is being, or has been, paid to a person to whom it is not, or was not, payable under this Act, the Commission may determine that the pension, supplement or payment is to be cancelled or suspended.
Note 1:	A determination under this section is not necessary in a case where an automatic termination is produced by section 56 or 56A.
Note 2:	For the date of effect of a determination under this section, see section 56H.
Note 3:	When a person’s pension is suspended under section 56E, the provision of benefits under Division 12 to the person is generally suspended too. However, the Commission may decide that the person can continue to receive medical treatment under section 53D or Part V (see subsection 85(8)).
Note 4:	When a person’s pension is cancelled under section 56E, the person’s benefits under Division 12 are generally cancelled too (but see also sections 56ED and 56EE).
(2)	A determination under subsection (1) must be in writing.
(3)	This section does not apply to a person if section 56EA applies to the person.
56EA Cancellation or suspension determination for failure to comply with section 54A notice
(1)	If:
(a)	a person who is receiving a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment is given a notice under section 54A or 54AA; and
(b)	the person does not comply with the requirements set out in the notice;
the Commission may determine that the pension, income support supplement or veteran payment is to be cancelled or suspended.
(2)	A determination under subsection (1) must be in writing.
Note 1:	For the date of effect of a determination under this section see section 56H.
Note 2:	When a person’s pension is suspended under section 56EA, the provision of benefits under Division 12 to the person is generally suspended too. However, the Commission may decide that the person can continue to receive medical treatment under section 53D or Part V (see subsection 85(8)).
Note 3:	When a person’s pension is cancelled under section 56EA, the person’s benefits under Division 12 are generally cancelled too (but see also sections 56ED and 56EE).
56EB Cancellation or suspension for failure to take action to obtain a comparable foreign pension
(1)	If:
(a)	a person who is receiving a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment has been given a notice under subsection 54BA(1) or (1A); and
(b)	the Commission is satisfied that the person, or the person’s partner, has not taken reasonable action to obtain the comparable foreign pension within the period specified in the notice;
the Commission may determine in writing that the service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment is to be cancelled or suspended.
(2)	For the purposes of this section, a person takes reasonable action to obtain a comparable foreign pension only if the person takes reasonable action to obtain the pension at the highest rate applicable to the person.
Note:	For the date of effect of a determination under this section see section 56H.
56EC Cancellation determination where service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment not payable
(1)	If a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment is not payable to a person because the rate of the pension, supplement or payment:
(a)	has been determined to be nil; or
(b)	has been reduced to nil under section 56 or 56A;
the Commission may determine that the pension, supplement or payment is to be cancelled.
(2)	The determination must be in writing.
Note:	For the date of effect of a determination under this section, see section 56H.
56ED Suspension instead of automatic termination under section 56 or 56A
Application
(1)	This section applies if:
(a)	service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment ceases to be payable to a person because the rate of the person’s pension, supplement or payment is nil; and
(b)	the rate of the person’s pension, supplement or payment is nil because of the occurrence of an event or change of circumstances (the income-related event) that results in the person’s income reduced rate (see subsection (2)) being nil; and
(c)	the person is required to inform the Department or a specified officer of the income-related event within a specified period (the notification period) because of a notice given to the person under section 54; and
(d)	but for the person’s income reduced rate being nil, the pension, supplement or payment would have continued to be payable to the person; and
(e)	the person’s pension, supplement or payment is to be, or has been, cancelled under section 56 or 56A because the pension, supplement or payment ceased to be payable for the reason mentioned in paragraph (b); and
(f)	at the time of the cessation, the person’s ordinary income (as used to work out the person’s income reduced rate) includes income for remunerative work performed by the person in Australia as an employee in an employer/employee relationship.
Note:	When a person’s pension or supplement ceases to be payable in the circumstances set out in this subsection, the person will generally continue to be eligible for fringe benefits for up to 2 years (see subsection 53A(3)).
(2)	For the purposes of subsection (1), a person’s income reduced rate, in relation to a service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment, is the rate worked out in relation to that pension, supplement or payment at step 6 of method statement 1, step 6 of method statement 5 or step 6 of method statement 7, as the case may be, in Module A of the Rate Calculator.
Suspension determination—event notified within notification period
(3)	If:
(a)	the person informs the Department or specified officer of the income-related event within the notification period; and
(b)	the person’s pension, supplement or payment has not yet been cancelled under section 56;
the Commission may determine in writing that:
(c)	section 56 does not apply to cancel the person’s pension, supplement or payment; and
(d)	the person’s pension, supplement or payment is suspended.
(4)	If:
(a)	the person informs the Department or specified officer of the income-related event within the notification period; and
(b)	the person’s pension, supplement or payment has been cancelled under section 56;
the Commission may determine in writing that:
(c)	the person is to be treated as if section 56 had not applied to cancel the person’s pension, supplement or payment; and
(d)	the person’s pension, supplement or payment is suspended.
Suspension determination—event not notified within notification period
(5)	If:
(a)	the person does not inform the Department or specified officer of the income-related event within the notification period; and
(b)	the person’s pension, supplement or payment has been cancelled under section 56A; and
(c)	the Department subsequently becomes aware of the income-related event;
the Commission may determine in writing that:
(d)	the person is to be treated as if section 56A had not applied to cancel the person’s pension, supplement or payment; and
(e)	the person’s pension, supplement or payment is suspended.
Rules for suspension determinations
(6)	The Commission must not make a determination under subsection (3), (4) or (5) unless the Commission is satisfied that the person is residing in Australia.
(7)	A determination under subsection (3), (4) or (5) takes effect on the day on which, but for the determination, the person’s pension, supplement or payment would be cancelled under section 56 or 56A.
Cancellation of pension, supplement or payment after 2 years
(8)	If:
(a)	the Commission makes a determination suspending a person’s pension, supplement or payment under subsection (3), (4) or (5); and
(b)	the determination continues in effect throughout the period of 2 years from its date of effect;
then, at the end of the period:
(c)	the suspension ends; and
(d)	the pension, supplement or payment is cancelled.
Note:	The Commission may end a suspension if satisfied that a person’s pension, supplement or payment is payable to the person (see section 56F).
56EE Suspension instead of automatic termination under section 56 or 56A—partners
Application
(1)	This section applies if:
(a)	one of the following determinations is made, in relation to a person who is a member of a couple, because of the occurrence of an event or change of circumstances:
(i)	a determination under subsection 56ED(3), (4) or (5) suspending the person’s service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment because the pension, supplement or payment ceased to be payable to the person;
(ii)	a determination under subsection 95D(3), (4) or (5) of the Social Security (Administration) Act 1999 suspending the person’s age pension because the pension ceased to be payable to the person;
(iii)	a determination under subsection 96(1), 97(1), 97A(1) or 97A(2) of the Social Security (Administration) Act 1999 suspending the person’s disability support pension because the person ceased to be qualified for the pension;
(iv)	a determination under subsection 96(3), 97(3) or 97B(1) of the Social Security (Administration) Act 1999 suspending the person’s disability support pension because the pension ceased to be payable to the person; and
(b)	immediately before the event or change of circumstances, the person’s partner was receiving a service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment; and
(c)	the partner’s pension, supplement or payment ceases to be payable to the partner because the rate of the partner’s pension, supplement or payment is nil; and
(d)	the partner’s cessation of payability occurs because of the occurrence of the same event or change of circumstances that resulted in the person’s cessation of payability or qualification; and
(e)	because of the partner’s cessation of payability, the partner’s pension, supplement or payment is to be, or has been, cancelled under section 56 or 56A.
Note:	For suspensions when a person’s partner has been receiving age pension, disability support pension or carer payment, see section 97C of the Social Security (Administration) Act 1999.
Partner suspension determination
(2)	The Commission may determine in writing that:
(a)	the partner is to be treated as if section 56 or 56A does not apply or had not applied (as the case may be) to cancel the partner’s pension, supplement or payment; and
(b)	the partner’s pension, supplement or payment is suspended.
Note:	When a partner’s pension or supplement ceases to be payable in the circumstances set out in subsection (1), the partner will generally continue to be eligible for fringe benefits for up to 2 years (see subsection 53A(5)).
(3)	However, subsection (2) does not apply if:
(a)	the determination referred to in paragraph (1)(a) suspended the person’s partner service pension; and
(b)	the partner was receiving income support supplement or veteran payment.
When suspension determinations take effect
(4)	A determination under subsection (2) takes effect on the day on which, but for the determination, the partner’s pension, supplement or payment would be cancelled under section 56 or 56A.
Cancellation of partner’s pension, supplement or payment after 2 years
(5)	If:
(a)	the Commission makes a determination suspending the partner’s pension, supplement or payment under subsection (2); and
(b)	the determination continues in effect throughout the period of 2 years from its date of effect;
then, at the end of the period:
(c)	the suspension ends; and
(d)	the pension, supplement or payment is cancelled.
Note:	The Commission may end a suspension if satisfied that the partner’s pension, supplement or payment is payable to the partner (see section 56F).
Partner ceasing to be member of couple
(6)	To avoid doubt, subsection (5) applies to the partner even if the partner ceases to be a member of the couple after the event or change of circumstances referred to in subsection (1).
56F Resumption of a payment after suspension
If the Commission:
(a)	suspends a person’s service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment under section 56E, 56EA, 56EB, 56ED or 56EE; and
(b)	later becomes satisfied that the pension, supplement or payment is payable to the person;
the Commission may end the suspension, by determination in writing.
Note:	For the date of effect of a determination under this section, see section 56G.
56G Date of effect of favourable determination
(1)	The day on which a determination under section 56C or 56F (in this section called the favourable determination) takes effect is worked out in accordance with this section.
Notified change of circumstances
(2)	If:
(a)	the favourable determination is made following a person having advised the Department of a change in circumstances; and
(b)	the change is not a decrease in the rate of the person’s maintenance income;
the determination takes effect on the day on which the advice was received or on the day on which the change occurred, whichever is the later.
Other determinations
(3)	In any other case, the favourable determination takes effect on the day on which the determination was made or on such later day or earlier day as is specified in the determination.
56GA Date of effect of determination under section 56C—dependent child
If a determination under section 56C is made after a person tells the Department that the person has a child, or an additional child, that is a dependent child, the determination takes effect on the day on which the child is taken to have become a dependent child.
Note:	The day is determined by reference to the Social Security Act (see subsection 5F(2)).
56H Date of effect of adverse determination
General
(1)	The day on which a determination under section 56D, 56E, 56EA, 56EB or 56EC (in this section called the adverse determination) takes effect is worked out in accordance with this section.
(2)	The adverse determination takes effect on:
(a)	the day on which the determination is made; or
(b)	if another day is specified in the determination—on that day.
(3)	Subject to subsections (4), (5), (6), (7), (8) or (9), the day specified under paragraph (2)(b) must be later than the day on which the determination is made.
Contravention of Act
(4)	If the adverse determination is made because a person has contravened a provision of this Act (other than subsection 54(6), 54A(6), 54AA(7) or 128(4)) the day specified under paragraph (2)(b) may be earlier than the day on which the determination is made.
False statement or misrepresentation—suspension or cancellation
(5)	If:
(a)	a person has made a false statement or misrepresentation; and
(b)	because of the false statement or misrepresentation, any amount of a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment has been paid to a person which should not have been paid;
the day specified under paragraph (2)(b) may be earlier than the day on which the determination is made.
False statement or misrepresentation—rate reduction
(6)	If:
(a)	a person has made a false statement or misrepresentation; and
(b)	because of the false statement or misrepresentation, the rate at which a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment was paid to a person was more than it should have been;
the day specified under paragraph (2)(b) may be earlier than the day on which the determination is made.
Payment of arrears of periodic compensation payments—suspension or cancellation
(7)	If:
(a)	an adverse determination is made in relation to a person because of point SCH6-E4 (payment of arrears of periodic compensation payments); and
(b)	a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment has been paid to the person or to the person’s partner when, because of the payment of arrears of periodic compensation, the service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment should have been cancelled or suspended;
the day specified under paragraph (2)(b) may be earlier than the day on which the determination is made.
Payment of arrears of compensation payments—rate reduction
(8)	If:
(a)	an adverse determination is made in relation to a person because of point SCH6-E4 (payment of arrears of periodic compensation payments); and
(b)	an amount of service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment was paid to the person or to the person’s partner that, because of the payment of arrears of periodic compensation, was more than the amount that should have been paid;
the day specified under paragraph (2)(b) may be earlier than the day on which the determination is made.
Duplicate payments of rent assistance
(9)	If:
(a)	a decision (the veterans’ entitlements decision) was made that rent assistance (the veterans’ entitlements rent assistance) was to be included when calculating a person’s rate of service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment for each day in a period; and
(b)	the condition in subsection (10) is met for each day in that period (which is about rent assistance also being included in family tax benefit); and
(c)	because the inclusion of the veterans’ entitlements rent assistance was contrary to Module C of the Rate Calculator, an adverse determination is made to reduce the rate of, or cancel, the person’s service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment for each day in that period;
the day specified under paragraph (2)(b) must be the first day of that period and may be earlier than the day on which the determination is made.
(10)	The condition in this subsection is met for each day in a period if:
(a)	both of the following apply:
(i)	the person was a member of a couple (other than an illness separated couple or a respite care couple) on each day in the period;
(ii)	when the veterans’ entitlements decision was made, a determination under the family assistance law was in force that included rent assistance when calculating the person’s, or the person’s partner’s, Part A rate of family tax benefit for each day in that period; or
(b)	both of the following apply:
(i)	the person was not a member of a couple, or was a member of an illness separated couple, or a respite care couple, on each day in the period;
(ii)	when the veterans’ entitlements decision was made, a determination under the family assistance law was in force that included rent assistance when calculating the person’s Part A rate of family tax benefit for each day in that period; or
(c)	all of the following apply:
(i)	when the veterans’ entitlements decision was made, no determination of a kind mentioned in subparagraph (a)(ii) or (b)(ii) (as the case requires) was in force;
(ii)	after the veterans’ entitlements decision was made, such a determination was made;
(iii)	each day in the period either is, or comes after, the day on which the determination was made.
56J Payment may be cancelled at recipient’s request
(1)	The Commission may cancel a person’s age service pension, invalidity service pension, partner service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment if the person requests the Commission to do so.
(2)	A request under subsection (1) must be in writing.
Note 1:	If the Commission cancels a veteran’s age service pension or invalidity service pension and the veteran’s partner receives a partner service pension, the partner service pension will also be terminated (under section 56E).
Note 2:	Cancellation of a veteran’s service pension may result in the veteran being ineligible for treatment under Part V.
56K Payment may be suspended if instalments not drawn
If a person has not drawn instalments of his or her age service pension, invalidity service pension, partner service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment for a continuous period of 6 months, the Commission may cancel or suspend the pension, supplement or payment.
Note 1:	An example of a situation where this section is intended to apply is where a person has closed his or her bank account and cannot be contacted to make new banking or other arrangements for payment of the person’s service pension. It is not intended to apply where a pensioner is accumulating pension instalments in a bank account.
Note 2:	If the Commission cancels or suspends a veteran’s age service pension or invalidity service pension and the veteran’s partner receives a partner service pension, the partner service pension will also be terminated (under section 56E).
56L Commission may end suspension
(1)	If the Commission suspends a pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment under section 56K, it may end the suspension at any time.
(2)	The Commission may determine that the end of the suspension takes effect:
(a)	from the date the suspension occurred; or
(b)	such later date as the Commission thinks proper.
56M Effect of cancellation or suspension
(1)	If the Commission determines under this Division that a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment payable to a person is to be cancelled, the pension, supplement or payment ceases to be payable to the person from and including the day on which the determination takes effect.
(2)	If the Commission determines under this Division that a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment payable to a person is to be suspended, the pension, supplement or payment is not payable to the person during the period:
(a)	commencing on the day on which the determination takes effect; and
(b)	ending when the suspension ends:
(i)	under a determination of the Commission (under section 56F or 56L); or
(ii)	because of the operation of subsection 56ED(8) or 56EE(5).
56N Changes to payments by computer
If:
(a)	payment to a person of a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment is based upon data in a computer; and
(b)	the rate of the pension, supplement or payment is increased or reduced, or the pension, supplement or payment is cancelled or suspended, because of the operation of a computer program approved by the Commission; and
(c)	the program causes the change for a reason for which the Commission could determine the change;
the change is taken to have been made because of a determination by the Commission for that reason.
Note:	This section does not apply where:
(a)	an automatic termination is produced by section 56 or 56A; or
(b)	an automatic rate reduction is produced by section 56B.
	Division 16 — Review of decisions
57 Persons who may seek review of certain decisions
(1)	A claimant who is dissatisfied with a decision of the Commission:
(a)	in relation to a claim for a qualifying service determination under section 35B; or
(b)	in relation to a claim for a service pension or income support supplement; or
(c)	in relation to a request under section 52Y (financial hardship);
may request the Commission to review the decision.
(1A)	A person who is dissatisfied with either of the following decisions of the Commission made under an instrument made under section 45SB may request the Commission to review the decision:
(a)	a decision that the person is not eligible for a veteran payment;
(b)	a decision determining the rate of the person’s veteran payment.
(2)	A person who is dissatisfied with a decision of the Commission:
(a)	cancelling or suspending a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment; or
(b)	terminating the suspension of a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment; or
(ba)	making, or refusing to make, a determination that a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment be suspended instead of cancelled under section 56ED or 56EE; or
(c)	reducing or increasing the rate of a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment; or
(d)	refusing a request for an increase in the rate of a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment; or
(e)	in relation to a request under section 52Y (financial hardship);
may request the Commission to review the decision.
(3)	A person who is dissatisfied with a decision of the Commission under Part IIIAB (pension bonus and pension bonus bereavement payment) may request the Commission to review the decision. However, this rule does not apply to a decision of the Commission under:
(a)	section 45TE (approval of form); or
(b)	section 45TG (approval of places and persons); or
(c)	section 45TO (declaration of non-accruing membership); or
(d)	paragraph 45UK(1)(b) (approval of form).
57A Application for review
(1)	A request for review of a decision under section 57 must:
(a)	be made within 3 months after the person seeking review was notified of the decision; and
(b)	set out the grounds on which the request is made; and
(c)	be in writing; and
(d)	be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(1A)	A request lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
(2)	If a request for review of a decision is made in accordance with subsection (1) the Commission must review the decision.
(3)	If the Commission has delegated its powers under this section to the person who made the decision under review, that person must not review the decision.
57B Commission’s powers where request for review
(1)	If the Commission reviews a decision under this Division, the Commission must affirm the decision or set it aside.
(2)	If the Commission sets the decision aside it must, subject to subsection (3), substitute a new decision in accordance with this Act.
(3)	If the decision set aside is:
(a)	a decision to cancel, suspend or reduce the rate of a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment under section 56D or 56E; or
(b)	a decision to increase the rate of a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment under section 56C;
the Commission need not substitute another decision.
Note:	For the Commission’s evidence-gathering powers see section 57F.
57C Date of effect of certain review decisions
(1)	If the Commission sets aside a decision and substitutes for it a decision:
(a)	granting a claim for service pension or income support supplement or granting a veteran payment; or
(b)	increasing the rate of a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment;
the substituted decision takes effect from a date specified by the Commission.
(2)	The date specified by the Commission under subsection (1) must not be earlier than the date from which the Commission could have granted the claim or the veteran payment, or increased the rate, when the original decision was made.
(3)	If the Commission sets aside a decision to suspend a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment, the Commission may end the suspension from a date specified by the Commission, which may be a date earlier than the date of the Commission’s decision to set aside the suspension.
57D Commission must make written record of review decision and reasons
(1)	When the Commission reviews a decision under this Division it must make a written record of its decision upon review.
(2)	The written record must include a statement that:
(a)	sets out the Commission’s findings on material questions of fact; and
(b)	refers to the evidence or other material on which those findings are based; and
(c)	provides reasons for the Commission’s decision.
57E Person who requested review to be notified of decision
(1)	When the Commission affirms or sets aside a decision under this Division it must give the person who requested the review of the decision:
(a)	a copy of the Commission’s decision; and
(b)	subject to subsection (2), a copy of the statement about the decision referred to in subsection 57D(2); and
(c)	if the person has a right to apply to the Administrative Review Tribunal for a review of the Commission’s decision—a statement giving the person particulars of that right.
(2)	If the statement referred to in paragraph (1)(b) contains any matter that, in the opinion of the Commission:
(a)	is of a confidential nature; or
(b)	might, if communicated to the person who requested review, be prejudicial to his or her physical or mental health or well-being;
the copy given to the person is not to contain that matter.
57F Powers of Commission to gather evidence
(1)	The Commission or the Commission’s delegate may, in reviewing a decision under this Division:
(a)	take evidence on oath or affirmation for the purposes of the review; and
(b)	adjourn a hearing of the review from time to time.
(2)	The presiding member of the Commission or the Commission’s delegate may, for the purposes of the review:
(a)	summon a person to appear at a hearing of the review to give evidence and to produce such documents (if any) as are referred to in the summons; and
(b)	require a person appearing at a hearing of the review for the purpose of giving evidence either to take an oath or to make an affirmation; and
(c)	administer an oath or affirmation to a person so appearing.
(3)	The person who applied for the review under this Division is a competent and compellable witness upon the hearing of the review.
(4)	The oath or affirmation to be taken or made by a person for the purposes of this section is an oath or affirmation that the evidence that the person will give will be true.
(5)	The Commission’s power under paragraph (1)(a) to take evidence on oath or affirmation:
(a)	may be exercised on behalf of the Commission by:
(i)	the presiding member or the Commission’s delegate; or
(ii)	by another person (whether a member or not) authorised by the presiding member or the Commission’s delegate; and
(b)	may be exercised within or outside Australia; and
(c)	must be exercised subject to any limitations specified by the Commission.
(6)	Where a person is authorised under subparagraph (5)(a)(ii) to take evidence for the purposes of a review, the person has:
(a)	all the powers of the Commission under subsection (1); and
(b)	all the powers of the presiding member under subsection (2);
for the purposes of taking that evidence.
(7)	In this section:
Commission’s delegate means a person to whom the Commission has delegated its powers under section 57A and who is conducting the review in question.
57G Withdrawal of request for review
(1)	A person who requests a review under section 57 may withdraw the request at any time before it is determined by the Commission.
(2)	To withdraw the request, the person must give written notice of withdrawal to the Secretary and the notice must be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(3)	Subject to section 57A, a person who withdraws a request for review may subsequently make another request for review of the same decision.
Note:	Section 57A provides that a person who wants to request a review of a decision must do so within 3 months after the person has received notice of the decision.
57H Commission may reimburse certain expenses
(1)	When the Commission, upon review of a decision under this Division:
(a)	grants a claim for a qualifying service determination, a service pension or income support supplement or grants a veteran payment; or
(b)	sets aside a decision to cancel or suspend a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment;
the Commission may pay to the person who requested the review an amount in respect of expenses incurred by the person in providing for the production of certificates, reports or other documents from a medical practitioner, or from a hospital or similar institution in which he or she had received medical treatment.
(2)	Subsection (1) applies only in relation to certificates, reports or documents reasonably used for the purposes of the review.
(3)	The amount that may be paid under subsection (1) is to be calculated in accordance with the scale approved by the Commission for the purposes of subsection 19(8).
	Division 17 — Administration of payments
Subdivision A—General administration of payments
58 Application of Subdivision
(1)	This Subdivision applies to:
(a)	pensions payable under Part III (Service Pensions) or Part IIIA (Income Support Supplement); and
(aa)	veteran payments (see Part IIIAA); and
(b)	pension bonus and pension bonus bereavement payment payable under Part IIIAB.
(2)	For the purposes of this Subdivision, pension includes veteran payment.
Note:	The definition of pension in section 5Q also includes income support supplement.
(3)	For the purposes of this Subdivision (other than section 58A), pension includes a home equity access scheme advance payment (within the meaning of section 52ZBA).
58A Payment by instalments
Payment in arrears in relation to pension periods
(1)	Pension is payable:
(a)	in arrears; and
(b)	by instalments relating to each pension period.
Total instalment relating to a pension period
(2)	The amount payable to a person as an instalment of pension in relation to a pension period is the total amount of pension payable to the person for the days in that period on which pension was payable to the person.
Pensions generally payable fortnightly
(3)	Unless subsection (3A) applies to the person, an instalment of pension is payable to a person on the next payday after the end of the pension period to which the instalment relates.
Pensions may be payable weekly
(3A)	The Commission may determine, in writing, that the total amount of an instalment of pension payable to a person in relation to a pension period is payable to the person in 2 payments (the part payments) if the person is a member of a class specified under subsection (3C).
(3B)	A determination made under subsection (3A) is not a legislative instrument.
(3C)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, specify a class of persons for the purposes of subsection (3A).
(3D)	The first of the part payments:
(a)	is not to exceed the total of the amount of pension (calculated in accordance with this section) payable to the person for days that:
(i)	are days on which the pension was payable to the person; and
(ii)	are included in the first 7 days of the pension period; and
(b)	is payable at a time determined by the Commission that is after the first 7 days of the pension period.
(3E)	The other of the part payments:
(a)	is the excess of the amount that is payable to the person as the instalment of pension in relation to the pension period over the first of the part payments; and
(b)	is payable at a time determined by the Commission that is after the end of the pension period.
(3F)	If the total amount of pension payable to a person in relation to a pension period is payable to the person in part payments, then it is taken for the purposes of this Act that:
(a)	a single instalment of the pension is payable in relation to the period; and
(b)	that instalment is payable when the last of the part payments is, or is to be, made; and
(c)	that instalment is equal to the total of the part payments.
Note:	The total of the part payments equals the amount worked out under subsection (2) (as affected by subsections (6) to (9), if relevant) as the amount payable to the person as the instalment of the pension in relation to the pension period.
(3G)	However, sections 58J (about payments to Commissioner of Taxation or Child Support Registrar) and 122B (about deductions from instalments) apply as if each of the part payments were a separate instalment.
Calculation of rate of pension payable
(4)	For the purpose of the calculation of the amount of an instalment of pension, the rate of pension payable to a person for a day is calculated by dividing the annual rate of pension by 364.
(5)	The amount worked out under subsection (4) is to be rounded to the nearest cent (rounding half a cent upwards).
(6)	If:
(a)	either or both of the following amounts are added to a person’s maximum basic rate for a particular day in working out the amount of an instalment of a service pension:
(i)	a pension supplement amount more than the person’s pension supplement basic amount;
(ii)	energy supplement; and
(b)	there is no election by the person under subsection 60A(1) in force on that day; and
(c)	apart from this subsection, the portion of the instalment corresponding to that day would be more than a nil amount but less than 1/364 of the total of:
(i)	the minimum pension supplement amount, if an amount described in subparagraph (a)(i) was added as described in paragraph (a); and
(ii)	the energy supplement (if any) added as described in paragraph (a);
the amount of that portion of the instalment is to be increased to 1/364 of that total.
(7)	If:
(a)	an amount of an instalment of income support supplement is payable to a person in relation to a particular day; and
(b)	on that day, the person is residing in Australia and:
(i)	is in Australia; or
(ii)	is temporarily absent from Australia and has been so for a continuous period not exceeding 6 weeks; and
(c)	there is no election by the person under subsection 60A(1) in force on that day; and
(d)	apart from this subsection, the portion of the instalment corresponding to that day would be less than 1/364 of the person’s minimum pension supplement amount, but more than a nil amount;
the amount of that portion of the instalment is to be increased to 1/364 of the person’s minimum pension supplement amount.
(8)	If:
(a)	an amount of an instalment of veteran payment is payable to a person in relation to a particular day; and
(b)	on that day, the person is residing in Australia and:
(i)	is in Australia; or
(ii)	is temporarily absent from Australia and has been so for a continuous period not exceeding 6 weeks; and
(c)	apart from this subsection, the portion of the instalment corresponding to that day would be less than 1/364 of the person’s minimum pension supplement amount, but more than a nil amount;
the amount of that portion of the instalment is to be increased to 1/364 of the person’s minimum pension supplement amount.
(9)	If, apart from this subsection, the amount of a fortnightly instalment of pension would be less than $1.00, the amount of the instalment is to be increased to $1.00.
58C Manner of payment
A person’s pension is, subject to sections 58D and 58L of this Act and sections 432 to 435 of the MRCA, to be paid:
(a)	to that person; and
(b)	in the manner determined by the Commission.
Note:	For the procedure to be followed if the Commission determines that a person’s pension is to be paid into an account with a bank or foreign corporation that takes money on deposit see section 58F.
58D Agents
(1)	The Commission may approve payment of a pension of a person (the primary person) to another person if:
(a)	the primary person, by document lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T, requests the Commission to pay the pension to the other person; and
(b)	the Commission is satisfied that the other person has agreed to receive payment as agent of the primary person.
(1A)	A request lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
(2)	An approval under subsection (1):
(a)	must be in writing; and
(b)	must specify the person to whom the pension is to be paid; and
(c)	must specify the period for which the pension is to be paid to that person.
(3)	If a payment of pension is made to another person in accordance with an approval under subsection (1):
(a)	the payment is, for all purposes, to be taken to be a payment of the pension to the primary person; and
(b)	neither the Commonwealth nor the Commission is bound to oversee the application of the payment by the other person; and
(c)	the other person is to be taken to receive the payment as agent for the primary person.
58E Pension payday falling on public holiday etc.
If an amount of pension that would normally be paid on a particular day cannot reasonably be paid on that day (because, for example, it is a public holiday or a bank holiday), the amount may be paid on an earlier day.
58F Payment into bank account etc.
(1)	The Commission may direct that the whole or a part of the amount of a person’s pension is to be paid, at the intervals that the Commission specifies, to the credit of an account with:
(a)	a bank; or
(b)	if the person is physically outside Australia—a foreign corporation that takes money on deposit.
(2)	The account must be an account nominated and maintained by the person to whom the pension is payable.
(3)	The account may be an account that is maintained by a person to whom the pension is payable jointly or in common with another person.
(3A)	If the person has not nominated an account for the purposes of subsection (2) the amount is not to be paid.
(3B)	If:
(a)	an amount has not been paid because of subsection (3A); and
(b)	the person nominates an account for the purposes of subsection (2);
the amount is to be paid under subsection (1).
(4)	If the Commission gives a direction under subsection (1), the pension is to be payable in accordance with the direction.
58J Payments to Commissioner of Taxation or Child Support Registrar
(1)	The Commission must, in accordance with Subdivision 260-A in Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953, for the purpose of enabling the collection of an amount that is, or may become, payable by a recipient of a pension:
(a)	make deductions from instalments of the pension payable to the recipient; and
(b)	pay the amount deducted to the Commissioner of Taxation.
(2)	The Commission must, in accordance with Subdivision 260-A in Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953, for the purpose of enabling the collection of an amount that is, or may become, payable by a recipient of a pension bonus or pension bonus bereavement payment:
(a)	make a deduction from the bonus or payment payable to the recipient; and
(b)	pay the amount deducted to the Commissioner of Taxation.
(3)	The Commission must, in accordance with a notice given under section 72AC of the Child Support (Registration and Collection) Act 1988, for the purpose of enabling the collection of an amount that is, or may become, payable by a recipient of a pension:
(a)	make deductions from instalments of the pension payable to the recipient; and
(b)	pay the amount deducted to the Child Support Registrar.
Subdivision B—Payments outside Australia
58K Age, invalidity and partner service pensions, income support supplement and veteran payment generally portable
(1)	A person’s right to commence, or to continue, to be paid:
(a)	an age service pension; or
(b)	an invalidity service pension; or
(c)	a partner service pension; or
(d)	income support supplement; or
(e)	a veteran payment;
granted to the person is not affected by the fact that the person leaves Australia.
Note:	Rent assistance is not payable to a person who is absent from Australia otherwise than temporarily. If a person is absent from Australia temporarily, rent assistance is not payable for any part of the absence in excess of 26 weeks.
(3)	Subsection (1) has effect subject to section 58M (claim based on short-term residence).
58L Manner of payment outside Australia
If a pension or veteran payment is payable to a person who is physically outside Australia, the pension or veteran payment may be paid:
(a)	in the manner determined by the Commission; and
(b)	in the instalments determined by the Commission.
58M No portability if claim based on short-term residence
(1)	If:
(a)	a person is an Australian resident; and
(b)	the person ceases to be an Australian resident; and
(c)	the person again becomes an Australian resident; and
(d)	the person makes a claim for:
(i)	an age service pension; or
(ii)	an invalidity service pension; or
(iii)	a partner service pension; or
(iv)	income support supplement; and
(e)	the claim is made within the period of 12 months after the person again became an Australian resident; and
(f)	the person leaves Australia before the end of that period of 12 months; and
(g)	there is no determination in respect of the person under subsection (2);
a pension granted on the basis of that claim is not payable to the person while the person is outside Australia.
(2)	The Commission may determine that subsection (1) is not to apply to a person if the Commission considers that the person’s reasons for leaving Australia before the end of the 12 month period arose from circumstances that could not be reasonably foreseen when the person returned to Australia.
(3)	A determination under subsection (2) must be by instrument in writing.
58N Transfer to portable pension
If:
(a)	a person who is outside Australia is receiving:
(i)	an age service pension; or
(ii)	an invalidity service pension; or
(iii)	a partner service pension; or
(iiia)	income support supplement; or
(iv)	a social security pension; and
(b)	the pension is cancelled or ceases to be payable automatically; and
(c)	immediately after the cancellation or cessation, the person is eligible for:
(i)	an age service pension; or
(ii)	an invalidity service pension; or
(iii)	a partner service pension; or
(iv)	income support supplement;
the pension referred to in paragraph (c) may be granted to the person as if the person were an Australian resident and in Australia.
	Division 18 — Indexation
Subdivision A—Preliminary
59 Analysis of Division
This Division provides for:
(a)	the indexation, in line with CPI (Consumer Price Index) increase, of the amounts in column 2 of the CPI Indexation Table at the end of section 59B; and
(aa)	the indexation of the maximum basic rates for service pension and income support supplement using the Pensioner and Beneficiary Living Cost Index; and
(b)	the adjustment of other amounts in line with the increase in the amounts indexed.
59A Indexed and adjusted amounts
The following Table sets out:
(a)	each amount that is to be indexed or adjusted under this Division; and
(b)	the abbreviation used in this Division for referring to that amount; and
(c)	the provision or provisions in which that amount is to be found.
Indexed and Adjusted Amounts Table
Column 1
Item
Column 2
Description of amount
Column 3
Abbreviation
Column 4
Provisions in which amount specified
Maximum basic rates
1.
Maximum basic rates for service pension or income support supplement for a person who is partnered
pension MBR
*Rate Calculator—point SCH6-B1—Table B-1—column 3—item 2
1A.
Maximum basic rates for service pension or income support supplement for a person who is not partnered
single pension rate MBR
*Rate Calculator—point SCH6-B1—Table B-1—column 3—item 1
1B
Maximum basic rates for veteran payment for a person who is partnered
partnered veteran payment MBR
Rate Calculator—point SCH6-B2—Table B-2—column 3—item 2
1C
Maximum basic rates for veteran payment for a person who is not partnered
single veteran payment MBR
Rate Calculator—point SCH6-B2—Table B-2—column 3—item 1
2
Combined couple rate of pension supplement
PS rate
subsection 5GA(1)
2A
Combined couple rate of minimum pension supplement
PS minimum rate
subsection 5GA(2)
2B
Pension supplement basic amount
PS basic rate
subsection 5GA(4)
Ceiling Rate
3.
Ceiling rate for war widow/war widower—pensioner
ceiling rate
*Rate Calculator—point SCH6-A4
Rent assistance
6.
Maximum rent assistance for service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment
pension MRA
*Rate Calculator—point SCH6-C8—Table C-2—column 4—item 1
6A.
Rent threshold rate for service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment
pension rent threshold
*Rate Calculator—point SCH6-C6—Table C-1—column 3—item 1
6B.
Maximum rent assistance (combined rate for couples with rent increased pensions)
pension MRA (couples)
*Rate Calculator—point SCH6-C8A
6C.
Rent threshold rate (combined rate for couples with rent increased pensions)
pension rent threshold (couples)
*Rate Calculator—point SCH6-C6A
Income free area
7.
Ordinary/adjusted income free area
Pension free area
*Rate Calculator—point SCH6-E6—Table E-1—column 3—all amounts
Assets value limit
9.
Assets value limit for service pension or income support supplement for property owner who is not a member of a couple
pension single property owner AVL
*Rate Calculator—point SCH6-F3—Table F-1—column 3A—item 1
10.
Assets value limit for service pension or income support supplement for non-property owner who is not a member of a couple
pension single non-property owner AVL
*Rate Calculator—point SCH6-F3—Table F-1—column 3B—item 1
11.
Assets value limit for service pension or income support supplement for property owner who is a member of a couple
pension partnered property owner AVL
*Rate Calculator—point SCH6-F3—Table F-1—column 3A—item 2
12.
Assets value limit for service pension or income support supplement for non-property owner who is a member of a couple
pension partnered non-property owner AVL
*Rate Calculator—point SCH6-F3—Table F-1—column 3B—item 2
13.
Assets value limit for some illness separated special residents
special illness separated special resident AVL
*paragraph 52S(5)(g), paragraph 52T(3)(e), paragraph 52U(2)(e)
13A.
Assets value limit of special disability trust
special disability trust AVL
subsection 52ZZZWK(3)
13B.
Exempt funeral investment threshold
exempt funeral investment threshold
paragraph 5PC(1)(b)
Income/assets reduction limit
14.
Income/assets reduction limit applicable when determining the eligibility for treatment benefits for a veteran—basic reduction
IARL basic reduction
section 53E—Table 53E—column 3
15.
Income/assets reduction limit applicable when determining the eligibility for treatment benefits for a veteran—add-on for dependent child
IARL dependent child add-on
section 53E—Table 53E—column 5
Deeming thresholds
20.
Deeming threshold for a person who is not a member of a couple
Deeming threshold individual
Subsection 46H(1)
21.
Deeming threshold for a couple
Deeming threshold couple
Subsection 46H(2)
Attribution threshold
22.
Primary production attribution threshold
Primary production attribution threshold
Section 52ZZZF
Maximum transitional service pension rates
23.
Maximum transitional service pension rates
Maximum transitional service pension rates
Subparagraph 30(4)(a)(i) of Schedule 5
Maximum transitional income support supplement rates
24.
Maximum transitional income support supplement rates
Maximum transitional income support supplement rates
Subparagraph 30(6)(a)(i) of Schedule 5
Note:	Indexing the PS minimum rate will also result in the indexation of the rate of quarterly pension supplement (see section 60B).
Subdivision B—CPI indexation
59B CPI Indexation Table
(1)	Subject to subsection (1A), an amount referred to in the following CPI Indexation Table is to be indexed under this Division on each indexation day for the amount, using the reference quarter and base quarter for the amount and indexation day and rounding off to the nearest multiple of the rounding amount:
CPI Indexation Table
Column 1
Item
Column 2
Amount
Column 3
Indexation day(s)
Column 4
Reference quarter (most recent before indexation day)
Column 5
Base quarter
Column 6
Rounding base
Maximum basic rates
1.
pension MBR
(a) 20 March
(b) 20 September
(a) December
(b) June
highest June or December quarter before reference quarter (but not earlier than June quarter 1979)
$2.60
1A
PS rate
(a) 20 March
(b) 20 September
(a) December
(b) June
highest June or December quarter before reference quarter (but not earlier than June quarter 2009)
$5.20
1B
PS minimum rate
(a) 20 March
(b) 20 September
(a) December
(b) June
highest June or December quarter before reference quarter (but not earlier than June quarter 2009)
$5.20
1C
PS basic rate
(a) 20 March
(b) 20 September
(a) December
(b) June
highest June or December quarter before reference quarter (but not earlier than December quarter 2008)
$2.60
Rent assistance
3.
pension MRA
(a) 20 March
(b) 20 September
(a) December
(b) June
highest June or December quarter before reference quarter (but not earlier than June quarter 1979)
$5.20
3A.
pension rent threshold
(a) 20 March
(b) 20 September
(a) December
(b) June
highest June or December quarter before reference quarter (but not earlier than June quarter 1979)
$5.20
3B.
pension MRA (couples)
(a) 20 March
(b) 20 September
(a) December
(b) June
highest June or December quarter before reference quarter (but not earlier than June quarter 1979)
$5.20
3C.
pension rent threshold (couples)
(a) 20 March
(b) 20 September
(a) December
(b) June
highest June or December quarter before reference quarter (but not earlier than June quarter 1979)
$5.20
Income free areas
4.
pension free area
1 July
March
highest March quarter before reference quarter (but not earlier than March quarter 2025)
$52.00
Assets value limits
6.
pension single property owner AVL
1 July
December
highest December quarter before reference quarter (but not earlier than December quarter 2024)
$250.00
7.
pension partnered property owner AVL
1 July
December
highest December quarter before reference quarter (but not earlier than December quarter 2024)
$250.00
8.
pension partnered non-property owner AVL
1 July
December
highest December quarter before reference quarter (but not earlier than December quarter 2024)
$250.00
8A.
special disability trust AVL
1 July
December
highest December quarter before reference quarter (but not earlier than December quarter 2024)
$250.00
8B.
Exempt funeral investment threshold
1 July
December
highest December quarter before reference quarter (but not earlier than December quarter 2024)
$250.00
Income/assets reduction limit
9.
IARL basic reduction
(a) 20 March
(b) 20 September
(a) December
(b) June
highest June or December quarter before reference quarter (but not earlier than June quarter 1979)
$2.60
Deeming thresholds
11.
Deeming threshold individual
1 July
March
highest March quarter before reference quarter (but not earlier than March 1994 quarter)
$200.00
12.
Deeming threshold couple
1 July
March
highest March quarter before reference quarter (but not earlier than March 1994 quarter)
$200.00
Primary production attribution threshold
13.
Primary production attribution threshold
1 July
December
highest December quarter before reference quarter (but not earlier than December quarter 2024)
$250.00
Maximum transitional service pension rates
14.
Maximum transitional service pension rates
(a) 20 March
(b) 20 September
(a) December
(b) June
highest June or December quarter before reference quarter (but not earlier than June quarter 2008)
$2.60
Maximum transitional income support supplement rates
15.
Maximum transitional income support supplement rates
(a) 20 March
(b) 20 September
(a) December
(b) June
highest June or December quarter before reference quarter (but not earlier than June quarter 2008)
$2.60
(1A)	The pension MBR amount (item 1 of table) is not to be indexed on 20 March 1993.
Highest quarter
(2)	A reference in the CPI Indexation Table to the highest of a group of quarters is a reference to the quarter in that group that has the highest index number.
59C Indexation of amounts
(1)	If an amount is to be indexed under this Subdivision on an indexation day, this Act has effect as if the indexed amount were substituted for that amount on that day.
(2)	This is how to work out the indexed amount for an amount that is to be indexed under this Subdivision on an indexation day:
Method statement
Step 1.	Use section 59D to work out the indexation factor for the amount on the indexation day.
Step 2.	Work out the current figure for the amount immediately before the indexation day.
Step 3.	Multiply the current figure by the indexation factor: the result is the provisional indexed amount.
Step 5.	Use section 59E to round off the provisional indexed amount: subject to section 59EAA, the result is the indexed amount.
The indexed amount (including one replaced under section 59EAA) may be increased under section 59EA in certain cases.
Note 1:	For current figure see subsection 5NA(1).
Note 2:	On the indexation days following 19 March 2001, the indexation of amounts that were increased by 4% or 10% on 1 July 2000 may be affected by section 198H.
(2AB)	The first indexation of amounts under items 1A, 1B and 1C of the CPI Indexation Table in subsection 59B(1) is to take place on 20 March 2010.
(2A)	For the purposes of working out the indexed amount for pension single property owner AVL on 1 July 2017, the current figure for pension single property owner AVL immediately before that day is taken to be $250,000.
(2B)	For the purposes of working out the indexed amount for pension partnered property owner AVL on 1 July 2017, the current figure for pension partnered property owner AVL immediately before that day is taken to be $187,500.
(3)	For the purposes of working out the indexed amount for pension partnered non-property owner AVL on 1 July 2017, the current figure for pension partnered non-property owner AVL immediately before that day is taken to be $287,500.
59D Indexation factor
(1)	Subject to subsections (2) and (3) and section 198MA, the indexation factor for an amount that is to be indexed under this Subdivision on an indexation day is:
worked out to 3 decimal places.
Note:	For reference quarter and base quarter see the CPI Indexation Table in section 59B.
(2)	If an indexation factor worked out under subsection (1) would, if it were worked out to 4 decimal places, end in a number that is greater than 4, the indexation factor is to be increased by 0.001.
(3)	If an indexation factor worked out under subsections (1) and (2) would be less than 1, the indexation factor is to be increased to 1.
59E Rounding off indexed amounts
(1)	If a provisional indexed amount is a multiple of the rounding base, the provisional indexed amount becomes the indexed amount.
Note 1:	For provisional indexed amount see step 3 in subsection 59C(2).
Note 2:	For rounding base see the CPI Indexation Table in section 59B.
(2)	If a provisional indexed amount is not a multiple of the rounding base, the indexed amount is the provisional indexed amount rounded up or down to the nearest multiple of the rounding base.
(3)	If a provisional indexed amount is not a multiple of the rounding base but is a multiple of half the rounding base, the indexed amount is the provisional indexed amount rounded up to the nearest multiple of the rounding base.
59EAA Indexation using Pensioner and Beneficiary Living Cost Index
(1)	This section applies to the pension MBR amount (see item 1 of the table in section 59A).
(2)	If the indexed amount for the pension MBR amount, worked out under section 59C on an indexation day and disregarding section 59EA and this section, is less than the living cost amount worked out on that indexation day using the following method statement, then that indexed amount is taken to be an amount equal to that living cost amount:
Method statement
Step 1.	Use section 59EAB to work out the living cost indexation factor on that indexation day.
Step 2.	Work out the current figure for the pension MBR amount immediately before that indexation day.
Note:	For current figure see subsection 5NA(1).
Step 3.	Multiply the current figure by the living cost indexation factor: the result is the provisional living cost amount.
Step 4.	Use section 59EAC to round off the provisional living cost amount: the result is the living cost amount.
Note:	If the indexed amount for the pension MBR amount, worked out under section 59C, is taken to be an amount equal to that living cost amount, there may be a further increase of that replaced indexed amount under section 59EA.
59EAB Living cost indexation factor
(1)	Subject to subsections (5) and (6) and section 198MB, the living cost indexation factor on an indexation day is:
worked out to 3 decimal places.
Definitions
(2)	For the purposes of this section, the living cost index number, in relation to a quarter, is the All Groups Pensioner and Beneficiary Living Cost Index number that is the weighted average of the 8 capital cities and is published by the Australian Statistician in respect of that quarter.
(3)	For the purposes of this section, the reference quarter is:
(a)	if the indexation day is a 20 March—the most recent December quarter before the indexation day; and
(b)	if the indexation day is a 20 September—the most recent June quarter before the indexation day.
(4)	For the purposes of this section, the base quarter is the June or December quarter that:
(a)	is a quarter before the reference quarter; and
(b)	has the highest living cost index number.
Rounding
(5)	If a living cost indexation factor worked out under subsection (1) would, if it were worked out to 4 decimal places, end in a number that is greater than 4, that indexation factor is to be increased by 0.001.
(6)	If a living cost indexation factor worked out under subsections (1) and (5) would be less than 1, that indexation factor is to be increased to 1.
Publication of substituted living cost index numbers
(7)	Subject to subsection (8), if at any time (whether before or after the commencement of this section) the Australian Statistician publishes a living cost index number for a quarter in substitution for a living cost index number previously published by the Australian Statistician for that quarter, the publication of the later living cost index number is to be disregarded for the purposes of this section.
Change to index reference period
(8)	If at any time (whether before or after the commencement of this section) the Australian Statistician changes the index reference period for the Pensioner and Beneficiary Living Cost Index, regard is to be had, for the purposes of applying this section after the change takes place, only to living cost index numbers published in terms of the new index reference period.
59EAC Rounding off amounts
(1)	If a provisional living cost amount is a multiple of $2.60, the provisional living cost amount becomes the living cost amount.
(2)	Subject to subsection (3), if a provisional living cost amount is not a multiple of $2.60, the living cost amount is the provisional living cost amount rounded up or down to the nearest multiple of $2.60.
(3)	If a provisional living cost amount is not a multiple of $2.60 but is a multiple of $1.30, the living cost amount is the provisional living cost amount rounded up to the nearest multiple of $2.60.
59EA Certain indexed amounts to be increased in line with increases in Male Total Average Weekly Earnings
(1)	In this section:
category B amount means an amount set out in column 3 of item 2 of Table B in point SCH6-B1.
(2)	If:
(a)	a category B amount is to be indexed under this Subdivision on an indexation day; and
(b)	50% of the combined couple benchmark for that indexation day exceeds the indexed amount for the category B amount;
then:
(c)	the indexed amount for the category B amount is to be increased by an amount equal to the excess; and
(d)	if the indexed amount for the category B amount (as increased under paragraph (c)) is not a multiple of $2.60, the indexed amount (as increased under paragraph (c)) is to be further increased by rounding up to the next highest multiple of $2.60.
(2A)	For the purposes of this section, the combined couple benchmark, for an indexation day, is 41.76% of the annualised MTAWE figure for whichever of the following quarters is applicable:
(a)	if the indexation day is a 20 March—the most recent December quarter;
(b)	if the indexation day is a 20 September—the most recent June quarter.
(3)	For the purposes of this section, the annualised MTAWE figure for a quarter is 52 times the amount set out for the reference period in the quarter under the headings “Average Weekly Earnings of Employees, Australia—Males—All males—Total earnings—ORIGINAL” in a document published by the Australian Statistician entitled “Average Weekly Earnings, States and Australia”.
(4)	If at any time (whether before or after the commencement of this section), the Australian Statistician publishes the amount referred to in subsection (3):
(a)	under differently described headings (the new headings); or
(b)	in a document entitled otherwise than as described in subsection (3) (the new document);
then the annualised MTAWE figure is to be calculated in accordance with subsection (3) as if the references to:
(c)	“Average Weekly Earnings of Employees, Australia—Males—All males—Total earnings—ORIGINAL”; or
(d)	“Average Weekly Earnings, States and Australia”;
were references to the new headings and/or the new document, as the case requires.
(5)	For the purposes of this section, the reference period in a particular quarter is the period described by the Australian Statistician as the pay period ending on or before a specified day that is the third Friday of the middle month of that quarter.
(6)	If at any time (whether before or after the commencement of this section), the Australian Statistician publishes an amount in substitution for a particular amount previously published by the Australian Statistician, the publication of the later amount is to be disregarded for the purposes of this section.
(7)	In this section:
December quarter means a quarter ending on 31 December.
June quarter means a quarter ending on 30 June.
Subdivision C—Adjustment of other rates
59G Adjustment of single pension rate MBR amount
(1)	This Act has effect as if, on 20 March (an indexation day) and 20 September (an indexation day) each year, the adjusted single pension amount were substituted for the single pension rate MBR amount (see item 1A of the table in section 59A).
(2)	For the purposes of this section, the adjusted single pension amount is worked out as follows:
Method statement
Step 1.	Work out the amount substituted for the pension MBR amount (see item 1 of the table in section 59A) on that indexation day under section 59C.
Step 2.	Multiply the amount worked out at step 1 by 2.
Step 3.	Work out 66.33% of the amount worked out at step 2.
Step 4.	Round the amount worked out at step 3 to the nearest multiple of $2.60 (rounding up if necessary): the result is the adjusted single pension amount.
59GA Adjustment of rent free area
(1)	This Act has effect as if, on 1 July each year, the rent free area applicable to a person who is not a member of a couple were replaced with the amount that is, on that day, the pension free area applicable to a person who is not a member of a couple.
(2)	This Act has effect as if, on 1 July each year, the rent free area applicable to a person who is partnered were replaced with the amount that is, on that day, the pension free area applicable to a person who is partnered.
59GB Adjustment of adjusted income free area
This Act has effect as if, on 1 July each year, the adjusted income free area applicable to a person were replaced with the amount that is, on that day, the ordinary income free area applicable to the person.
59H Adjustment of pension single non-property owner AVL
This Act has effect as if, on 1 July each year, the amount worked out in accordance with the following formula were substituted for the pension single non-property owner AVL:
where:
pension partnered non-property owner AVL is the current figure, as at that 1 July, for the pension partnered non-property owner AVL.
pension partnered property owner AVL is the current figure, as at that 1 July, for the pension partnered property owner AVL.
pension single property owner AVL is the current figure, as at that 1 July, for the pension single property owner AVL.
59J Adjustment of special illness separated special resident AVL
This Act has effect as if, on 1 July each year, the amount worked out in accordance with the following formula were substituted for each special illness separated special resident AVL:
where:
pension partnered non-property owner AVL is the current figure, as at that 1 July, for the pension partnered non-property owner AVL.
pension partnered property owner AVL is the current figure, as at that 1 July, for the pension partnered property owner AVL.
59LA Adjustment of ceiling rate
(1)	This Act has effect as if, on each adjustment day, the amount worked out in accordance with the following formula, and rounded up to the nearest multiple of $2.60, were substituted for the ceiling rate:
where:
pension MBR factor is:
previous ceiling rate is the ceiling rate applicable on the day before the adjustment day.
(2)	In subsection (1):
current single pension rate MBR amount means the single pension rate MBR amount (see item 1A of the table in section 59A) applicable on the adjustment day.
previous single pension rate MBR amount means the single pension rate MBR amount (see item 1A of the table in section 59A) applicable on the day before the adjustment day.
(2A)	A pension MBR factor worked out under subsection (1) is to be worked out to 3 decimal places. However:
(a)	if a pension MBR factor worked out under subsection (1) would, if it were worked out to 4 decimal places, end in a number that is greater than 4, the pension MBR factor is to be increased by 0.001; and
(b)	if a pension MBR factor worked out under subsection (1) or paragraph (a) of this subsection would be less than 1, the pension MBR factor is to be increased to 1.
(3)	In this section:
adjustment day means the following:
(a)	20 March;
(b)	20 September.
59LB Adjustment of veteran payment maximum basic rates
Partnered veteran payment MBR
(1)	This Act has effect as if, on each adjustment day, the amount worked out in accordance with the following formula, and rounded up to the nearest multiple of $5.20, were substituted for the partnered veteran payment MBR:
where:
previous partnered veteran payment MBR is the partnered veteran payment MBR applicable on the day before the adjustment day.
Single veteran payment MBR
(2)	This Act has effect as if, on each adjustment day, the amount worked out in accordance with the following formula, and rounded up to the nearest multiple of $2.60, were substituted for the single veteran payment MBR:
where:
previous single veteran payment MBR is the single veteran payment MBR applicable on the day before the adjustment day.
Definitions
(3)	In this section:
adjustment day means the following:
(a)	20 March;
(b)	20 September.
current single pension rate MBR means the single pension rate MBR (see item 1A of the table in section 59A) applicable on the adjustment day.
pension MBR factor means:
previous single pension rate MBR means the single pension rate MBR (see item 1A of the table in section 59A) applicable on the day before the adjustment day.
(4)	A pension MBR factor worked out under subsection (3) is to be worked out to 3 decimal places. However:
(a)	if a pension MBR factor worked out under subsection (3) would, if it were worked out to 4 decimal places, end in a number that is greater than 4, the pension MBR factor is to be increased by 0.001; and
(b)	if a pension MBR factor worked out under subsection (3) or paragraph (a) of this subsection would be less than 1, the pension MBR factor is to be increased to 1.
Part IIIC—Compensation recovery
	Division 1 — General
59M General effect of Part
(1)	If:
(a)	a person is or may be entitled to, or receives, compensation; and
(b)	the person has not reached pension age or qualifying age;
any of the following pensions, supplements and payments payable to the person or the person’s partner might be affected under this Part:
(c)	invalidity service pension;
(d)	partner service pension;
(f)	income support supplement;
(g)	veteran payment;
(i)	education entry payment.
Note 1:	For pension age see sections 5QA and 5QB.
Note 1A:	For qualifying age see section 5Q.
Note 2:	These pensions, supplements, allowances and payments may be compensation affected pensions (see section 5NB).
(2)	If the person is or may be entitled to compensation and does not take reasonable action to claim or obtain the compensation, the pension, supplement or payment may not be payable to the person.
(3)	If the compensation is in the form of a lump sum, the pension, supplement or payment may cease to be payable for a period (based on the amount of the lump sum) and some or all of that part may be repayable.
Note 1:	Under section 59N, certain lump sum payments may be treated as though they were received as periodic payments.
Note 2:	Under section 59O, a person may be treated as having received compensation that the person would have received but for the effect of a State or Territory law.
(4)	If the compensation is in the form of periodic payments, the pension, supplement or payment may be reduced for the periodic payments period.
Note 1:	Under section 59N, certain lump sum payments may be treated as though they were received as periodic payments.
Note 2:	Under section 59O, a person may be treated as having received compensation that the person would have received but for the effect of a State or Territory law.
(5)	An invalidity service pension or a partner service pension will only be affected under this Part if:
(a)	the compensation is received on or after 1 January 1995; and
(b)	the claim for the pension was made on or after 1 May 1987.
(6A)	Income support supplement will only be affected under this Part if the compensation is received on or after 1 January 1995.
(7)	This Part operates in certain specified circumstances to affect a person’s compensation affected pension because of compensation received by the person or the person’s partner. This Part is not intended to contain any implication that, in addition to those specified circumstances, there needs to be some connection between the circumstances that give rise to the person’s eligibility for the pension and the circumstances that give rise to the person’s or the partner’s compensation.
59N Certain lump sums to be treated as though they were received as periodic payments
If:
(a)	a person is entitled to periodic payments under a law of a State or Territory; and
(b)	the person’s entitlement to the periodic payments is converted under the law of the State or Territory into an entitlement to a lump sum; and
(c)	the lump sum is calculated by reference to a period;
this Part applies to the person as if:
(e)	the person had not received:
(i)	the lump sum; or
(ii)	if the lump sum was to be paid in instalments—any of the instalments; and
(f)	the person had received, in each fortnight during the period, a periodic compensation payment equal to:
where:
lump sum amount is the amount of the lump sum referred to in paragraph (b).
number of fortnights in the period is the number of whole fortnights in the period referred to in paragraph (c).
59O Effect of certain State and Territory laws
If:
(a)	a law of a State or Territory provides for the payment of compensation; and
(b)	that law includes a provision to the effect that a person’s compensation under the law is to be or may be reduced or cancelled if the person is eligible for or receives payments under this Act;
this Part applies as if the person had received under that law the compensation that the person would have received if the provision referred to in paragraph (b) had not been enacted.
	Division 2 — Enforcement of compensation rights
59P Commission may require person to take action to obtain compensation
(1)	If:
(a)	a person is receiving a compensation affected pension; and
(b)	the person or the person’s partner is entitled or may, in the Commission’s opinion, be entitled to compensation; and
(c)	the person or the partner has not taken:
(i)	any action to claim or obtain the compensation; or
(ii)	any action that the Commission considers reasonable to claim or obtain the compensation;
the Commission may require the person or the partner to take the action specified by the Commission.
(2)	If:
(a)	a person is eligible for a compensation affected pension; and
(b)	the person or the person’s partner is entitled or may, in the Commission’s opinion, be entitled to compensation; and
(c)	the person or the partner has not taken:
(i)	any action to claim or obtain the compensation; or
(ii)	any action that the Commission considers reasonable to claim or obtain the compensation;
the Commission may require the person or the partner to take the action specified by the Commission.
(3)	Even though a person has entered into an agreement to give up the person’s right to compensation, the Commission may form the opinion that the person may be entitled to compensation if the Commission is satisfied that the agreement is void, ineffective or unenforceable.
(4)	For the purposes of subsection (3), a person enters into an agreement to give up the person’s right to compensation if the person:
(a)	enters into an agreement to waive the person’s right to compensation; or
(b)	enters into an agreement to withdraw the person’s claim for compensation.
(5)	The action specified by the Commission is to be the action that the Commission considers reasonable to enable the person to claim or obtain the compensation.
(6)	If, under subsection (1), the Commission requires a person who has been granted a pension to take action to claim or obtain compensation, the pension is not payable to the person unless the person complies with the requirement.
(7)	If, under subsection (1), the Commission requires the partner of a person who has been granted a pension to take action to obtain or claim compensation, the pension is not payable to the person unless the partner complies with the requirement.
	Division 3 — Receipt of compensation
59Q Pension etc. not payable during lump sum preclusion period
Person not member of a couple
(1)	If:
(a)	a person is eligible for a compensation affected pension; and
(b)	the person is not a member of a couple; and
(c)	the person receives compensation in the form of a lump sum (whether before or after the person became eligible for the pension);
the pension is not payable to the person for any day or days in the lump sum preclusion period.
Note 1:	For compensation affected pension see subsection 5NB(1).
Note 2:	For lump sum preclusion period see subsections (3) to (7).
Person member of a couple (lump sum received before 20 March 1997)
(2)	If:
(a)	a person is eligible for a compensation affected pension; and
(b)	the person is a member of a couple; and
(c)	before 20 March 1997, the person, or the person’s partner, receives compensation in the form of a lump sum (whether before or after the person became eligible for the pension);
the following provisions have effect:
(d)	the pension is not payable to the person for any day or days in the lump sum preclusion period;
(e)	if the person’s partner is eligible for a compensation affected pension—that pension is not payable to the partner for any day or days in the lump sum preclusion period.
Note 1:	For compensation affected pension see subsection 5NB(1).
Note 2:	For lump sum preclusion period see subsections (3) to (7).
Person member of a couple (lump sum received on or after 20 March 1997)
(2A)	If:
(a)	a person is eligible for a compensation affected pension; and
(b)	the person is a member of a couple; and
(c)	on or after 20 March 1997, the person receives compensation in the form of a lump sum (whether before or after the person became eligible for the pension);
the pension is not payable to the person for any day or days in the lump sum preclusion period.
Note 1:	For compensation affected pension see subsection 5NB(1).
Note 2:	For lump sum preclusion period see subsections (3) to (7).
Lump sum preclusion period
(3)	If a person receives both periodic compensation payments and compensation in the form of a lump sum in respect of lost earnings or lost earning capacity, the lump sum preclusion period is the period that:
(a)	begins on the day following the last day of the periodic payments period or, if there is more than one periodic payments period, the day after the last day of the last periodic payments period; and
(b)	ends after the number of weeks specified in subsection (7).
Note:	For periodic payments period see subsection 5NB(1).
(4)	If a person chooses to receive part of an entitlement to periodic compensation payments in the form of a lump sum, the lump sum preclusion period is the period that:
(a)	begins on the first day on which the person’s periodic compensation payment is a reduced payment because of that choice; and
(b)	ends after the number of weeks specified in subsection (7).
(6)	If neither subsection (3) nor (4) applies, the lump sum preclusion period is the period that:
(a)	begins on the day on which the loss of earnings or loss of earning capacity began; and
(b)	ends after the number of weeks specified in subsection (7).
(7)	The number of weeks in the lump sum preclusion period in relation to a person is:
(a)	if the person or the person’s partner receives the lump sum compensation payment before 20 March 1997—the number worked out by using the formula:
or
(b)	if the person receives the lump sum compensation payment on or after 20 March 1997—the number worked out by using the formula:
where:
maximum basic rate means the amount specified in column 3 of item 1 in Table B-1 in point SCH6-B1 of Schedule 6.
ordinary free area limit means the amount specified in column 3 of item 1 in Table E-1 in point SCH6-E6 of Schedule 6.
point SCH6-BA3 amount means the pension supplement amount worked out under point SCH6-BA3 of Schedule 6 for a person who is not a member of a couple (whether or not the person for whom the lump sum preclusion period is being worked out is a member of a couple and whether or not that point applies to the person for whom the lump sum preclusion period is being worked out).
point SCH6-BB3 amount means the energy supplement worked out under point SCH6-BB3 of Schedule 6 for a person who is not a member of a couple (whether or not the person for whom the lump sum preclusion period is being worked out is a member of a couple and whether or not that point applies to the person for whom the lump sum preclusion period is being worked out).
Note:	For compensation part of lump sum and average weekly earnings see section 5NB.
(8)	If the number worked out under subsection (7) is not a whole number, the number is to be rounded down to the nearest whole number.
59QA Deemed lump sum payments arising from separate payments
(1)	If:
(a)	a person receives 2 or more lump sum payments in relation to the same event that gave rise to the entitlement of the person to compensation (the multiple payments); and
(b)	at least one of the multiple payments is made wholly or partly in respect of lost earnings or lost capacity to earn;
the following paragraphs have effect for the purposes of this Act:
(c)	the person is taken to have received one lump sum compensation payment (the single payment) of an amount equal to the sum of the multiple payments;
(d)	the single payment is taken to have been received by the person:
(i)	on the day on which he or she received the last of the multiple payments; or
(ii)	if the multiple payments were all received on the same day—on that day.
(2)	A payment is not a lump sum payment for the purposes of paragraph (1)(a) if it relates exclusively to arrears of periodic compensation.
59R Person may have to repay amount where both lump sum and pension have been received
(1)	If:
(a)	a person receives compensation in the form of a lump sum; and
(b)	the person receives payments of a compensation affected pension for any day or days in the lump sum preclusion period;
the Commission may, by written notice to the person, determine that the person is liable to pay to the Commonwealth the amount specified in the notice.
Note:	For lump sum preclusion period see subsections 59Q(3) to (7).
(2)	The amount specified in the notice is the recoverable amount and is worked out:
(a)	if the person receives compensation in the form of a lump sum before 20 March 1997—under subsections (3) and (4); or
(b)	if the person receives compensation in the form of a lump sum on or after 20 March 1997—under subsection (5).
(3)	If the person receives compensation in the form of a lump sum before 20 March 1997 and:
(a)	the person is not a member of a couple; or
(b)	the person is a member of a couple and the person’s partner:
(i)	is not eligible for a compensation affected pension; or
(ii)	is not qualified for a compensation affected payment under the Social Security Act;
the recoverable amount is equal to the smaller of:
(c)	the compensation part of the lump sum; and
(d)	the sum of the pension payments made to the person for the lump sum preclusion period.
(4)	If:
(aa)	the person receives compensation in the form of a lump sum before 20 March 1997; and
(a)	the person is a member of a couple; and
(b)	the person’s partner:
(i)	is eligible for a compensation affected pension; or
(ii)	is qualified for a compensation affected payment under the Social Security Act;
the recoverable amount is equal to the smaller of:
(c)	the compensation part of the lump sum; and
(d)	the amount obtained by adding the pension payments made to the person for the lump sum preclusion period to:
(i)	the pension payments made to the person’s partner for the lump sum preclusion period; or
(ii)	the compensation affected payments made under the Social Security Act to the person’s partner for the lump sum preclusion period.
(5)	If the person receives compensation in the form of a lump sum on or after 20 March 1997, the recoverable amount is equal to the smaller of:
(a)	the compensation part of the lump sum; and
(b)	the sum of the payments of the compensation affected pension made to the person for a day or days in the lump sum preclusion period.
59S Lump sum compensation not counted as ordinary income
If an amount of compensation affected pension is not payable to a person under section 59Q because of compensation in the form of a lump sum, that lump sum is not to be regarded as ordinary income of either the person or the person’s partner for the purposes of this Act.
59T Effect of periodic compensation payments on rate of person’s compensation affected pension
(1)	If:
(a)	a person receives periodic compensation payments; and
(b)	the person was not, at the time of the event that gave rise to the entitlement of the person to the compensation, receiving a compensation affected pension; and
(c)	the person is eligible for a compensation affected pension for a day or days in the periodic payments period;
the rate of the person’s compensation affected pension for that day or those days is reduced in accordance with subsection (2).
Note:	For periodic compensation payments, compensation affected pension and periodic payments period, see subsection 5NB(1).
(2)	The person’s daily rate of compensation affected pension is reduced by the amount of the person’s daily rate of periodic compensation.
(3)	The reference in subsection (2) to a daily rate of periodic compensation is a reference to the amount worked out by dividing the total amount of the periodic compensation payments referred to in paragraph (1)(a) by the number of days in the periodic payments period.
(4)	If:
(a)	a person receives periodic compensation payments; and
(b)	at the time of the event that gave rise to the entitlement of the person to compensation, the person was receiving a compensation affected pension; and
(c)	the person is eligible for a compensation affected pension for a day or days in the periodic payments period;
the periodic compensation payments are to be treated as ordinary income of the person for the purposes of this Act.
Note:	For ordinary income, see subsection 5H(1).
59TA Effect of periodic compensation payments on rate of partner’s compensation affected pension
(1)	If:
(a)	a person receives periodic compensation payments; and
(b)	the person is a member of a couple; and
(c)	the person was not, at the time of the event that gave rise to the entitlement of the person to the compensation, receiving a compensation affected pension; and
(d)	the person is eligible for a compensation affected pension for a day or days in the periodic payments period but, solely because of the operation of this Part, does not, or would not, receive the pension; and
(e)	the person’s partner is eligible for a compensation affected pension, or is qualified for a compensation affected payment under the Social Security Act, for a day or days in the periodic payments period;
then, in working out the amount of the pension or payment referred to in paragraph (e), the amount (if any) by which the daily rate of periodic compensation payable to the person exceeds the daily rate of the compensation affected pension for which the person is eligible for a day or days in the periodic payments period is to be treated as ordinary income of the person’s partner.
Note 1:	See also point SCH6-E3A for the effect of that excess on the application of the ordinary/adjusted income test.
Note 2:	For periodic compensation payments, compensation affected pension and periodic payments period, see subsection 5NB(1).
Note 3:	For ordinary income, see subsection 5H(1).
(2)	The reference in subsection (1) to a daily rate of periodic compensation is a reference to the amount worked out by dividing the total amount of the periodic compensation payments referred to in paragraph (1)(a) by the number of days in the periodic payments period.
59U Claim for compensation affected pension granted to person qualified for compensation affected payment under Social Security Act
(1)	If:
(a)	a person’s claim for a compensation affected pension is granted; and
(b)	immediately before the claim is granted, a compensation affected payment for which the person was qualified under the Social Security Act was not payable to the person under section 1165 of that Act because of a lump sum compensation payment made to the person or to the person’s partner;
the person’s pension is not payable to the person for the remainder of the period that was the person’s lump sum preclusion period for the purposes of the Social Security Act.
(2)	If:
(a)	a person’s claim for a compensation affected pension is granted; and
(b)	immediately before the claim is granted, the person was receiving a compensation affected payment under the Social Security Act at a rate that was reduced under section 1173 of that Act because of periodic compensation payments made to the person or to the person’s partner;
then, for the remainder of the period that was the person’s periodic payments period for the purposes of the Social Security Act, the person’s pension is to be reduced:
(c)	by the amount (reduction amount) by which the person’s compensation affected payment under the Social Security Act would be reduced under section 1173 of that Act if the person were still qualified for it; or
(d)	if the reduction amount is greater than the amount of the person’s pension—to nil.
(3)	If:
(a)	a person’s claim for a compensation affected payment is granted; and
(b)	immediately before the claim is granted, a compensation affected payment for which the person was qualified under the Social Security Act was not payable to the person because the rate of the person’s pension was reduced to nil under section 1173 of that Act because of periodic compensation payments made to the person or to the person’s partner;
then, for the purposes of subsection (2), the person is taken to have been receiving the compensation affected payment at a reduced rate immediately before the claim was granted.
59V Rate reduction under both income/assets test and this Part
If:
(a)	the rate of a person’s compensation affected pension is to be reduced under this Part; and
(b)	the rate of the person’s pension is reduced under the ordinary/adjusted income test Module or the assets test Module of the Rate Calculator;
the reduction under this Part is to apply to the person’s pension as reduced under the ordinary/adjusted income test Module or the assets test Module of the Rate Calculator.
59W Person may have to repay amount where both periodic compensation payments and pension have been received
(1)	If:
(a)	a person receives periodic compensation payments; and
(b)	the person receives payments of a compensation affected pension for the periodic payments period; and
(c)	the person was not, at the time of the event that gave rise to the entitlement of the person to the compensation, receiving a compensation affected pension; and
(d)	the payments referred to in paragraph (b) have not been reduced to nil as a result of the operation of section 59T;
the Commission may, by written notice to the person, determine that the person is liable to pay to the Commonwealth the amount specified in the notice.
Note:	If a person was, at the time of the event that gave rise to the entitlement of the person to compensation, receiving a compensation affected pension, the compensation is treated as ordinary income. In cases where arrears of periodic compensation payments are treated as ordinary income, see point SCH6-E4.
(2)	The amount specified in the notice is the recoverable amount and is worked out under subsections (3) and (4).
(3)	If:
(a)	the person is not a member of a couple; or
(b)	the person is a member of a couple and the person’s partner:
(i)	is not eligible for a compensation affected pension; or
(ii)	is not qualified for a compensation affected payment under the Social Security Act;
the recoverable amount is equal to the smaller of:
(c)	the sum of the periodic compensation payments; and
(d)	the difference between:
(i)	the sum of the payments of compensation affected pension made to the person for a day or days in the periodic payments period; and
(ii)	the sum of the payments of compensation affected pension that would have been made to the person for any such day or days had those payments been made at the rate to which the payments were reduced as a result of the operation of section 59T.
(4)	If:
(a)	the person is a member of a couple; and
(b)	the person’s partner:
(i)	is eligible for a compensation affected pension; or
(ii)	is qualified for a compensation affected payment under the Social Security Act;
the recoverable amount is equal to the smaller of:
(c)	the sum of the periodic compensation payments; and
(d)	the difference between:
(i)	the sum of the payments of compensation affected pension, and of compensation affected payments under the Social Security Act, made to the person and the person’s partner for a day or days in the periodic payments period; and
(ii)	the sum of the payments of compensation affected pension, and of compensation affected payments under the Social Security Act, that would have been made to the person and the person’s partner for any such day or days had those payments been made at the rate to which the payments were reduced as a result of the operation of sections 59T and 59TA.
59X Periodic compensation payments not counted as ordinary income
If the rate of a person’s compensation affected pension is reduced under section 59T because of the receipt of periodic compensation payments, those payments are not regarded as ordinary income of the person for the purposes of this Act.
	Division 4 — Compensation payers
59Y Commission may send preliminary notice to potential compensation payer
(1)	If:
(a)	a person seeks compensation in respect of the person’s lost earnings or lost capacity to earn; and
(b)	the person receives or claims a compensation affected pension for a day or days in the period to which the compensation relates;
the Commission may give written notice to the person’s potential compensation payer that the Commission may wish to recover an amount from the potential compensation payer.
Note:	For potential compensation payer see section 5NB.
(2)	The notice must contain:
(a)	a statement of the potential compensation payer’s obligation under section 59Z; and
(b)	a statement of the effect of section 59ZD so far as it relates to a preliminary notice.
59Z Potential compensation payer must notify Department of liability
(1)	If a potential compensation payer:
(a)	is given notice under section 59Y in relation to a person; and
(b)	either before or after receiving the notice, becomes liable to pay compensation to the person;
the potential compensation payer must give written notice of the liability to the Department within 7 days after:
(c)	becoming liable; or
(d)	receiving the notice;
whichever happens later.
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 12 months.
Note:	Subsection 4B(2) of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose an appropriate fine instead of, or in addition to, a term of imprisonment. If a body corporate is convicted of the offence, subsection 4B(3) of that Act allows a court to impose a fine of an amount that is not greater than 5 times the maximum fine that could be imposed by the court on an individual convicted of the same offence.
(2)	The notice to the Department referred to in subsection (1) must be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T and is taken to have been given on a day determined under that section.
59ZA Commission may send recovery notice to compensation payer
(1)	If:
(a)	a compensation payer:
(i)	is liable to pay compensation to a person for a disease, injury or condition of the person; or
(ii)	has determined that a payment by way of compensation is to be made to a person in respect of a disease, injury or condition of the person; and
(b)	the person receives or claims a compensation affected pension for any day or days in the periodic payments period or the lump sum preclusion period;
the Commission may give written notice to the compensation payer that the Commission proposes to recover the amount specified in the notice from the compensation payer.
Note:	For compensation payer see section 5NB.
(2)	If a compensation payer is given notice under subsection (1), the compensation payer is liable to pay to the Commonwealth the amount specified in the notice.
(3)	The amount specified in the notice is the recoverable amount and is worked out under subsections (4), (5) and (5AA), unless subsection (5A) applies in which case it is worked out under subsection (5A) instead.
(4)	If:
(a)	the person claiming compensation is not a member of a couple; or
(b)	the person claiming compensation is a member of a couple and the person’s partner neither receives nor claims:
(i)	a compensation affected pension; or
(ii)	a compensation affected payment (under the Social Security Act);
for any day or days in the periodic payments period or the lump sum preclusion period;
the recoverable amount is equal to the smallest of the following amounts:
(c)	the difference between:
(i)	the sum of the payments of compensation affected pension made to the person for a day or days in the periodic payments period or the lump sum preclusion period; and
(ii)	the sum of the payments of compensation affected pension that would have been made to the person for any such day or days had those payments been made at the rate to which the payments were reduced as a result of the operation of subsection 59T(1);
(d)	the compensation part of the lump sum payment or the sum of the amounts of the periodic compensation payments;
(e)	the maximum amount that the compensation payer is liable to pay to the person in relation to the matter at any time after receiving:
(i)	a preliminary notice under section 59Y in relation to the matter; or
(ii)	if the compensation payer has not received a preliminary notice—the recovery notice under this section in relation to the matter.
(5)	If:
(a)	the person claiming compensation is a member of a couple; and
(b)	the person’s partner receives or is eligible for a compensation affected pension, or a compensation affected payment (under the Social Security Act), for a day or days in:
(i)	unless subparagraph (ii) applies—the periodic payments period in respect of the compensation; or
(ii)	if the compensation is lump sum compensation for which payment is received by the person or the person’s partner before 20 March 1997—the lump sum preclusion period;
the recoverable amount is equal to the smallest of the following amounts:
(c)	the difference between:
(i)	the sum of the payments of compensation affected pension, and of compensation affected payments under the Social Security Act, made to the person and the person’s partner for a day or days in the periodic payments period or the lump sum preclusion period; and
(ii)	the sum of the payments of compensation affected pension, and of compensation affected payments under the Social Security Act, that would have been made to the person and the person’s partner for any such day or days had those payments been made at the rate to which the payments were reduced as a result of the operation of subsection 59T(1) and section 59TA;
(d)	the compensation part of the lump sum payment or the sum of the amount of the periodic compensation payments;
(e)	the maximum amount that the compensation payer is liable to pay to the person in relation to the matter at any time after receiving:
(i)	a preliminary notice under section 59Y in relation to the matter; or
(ii)	if the compensation payer has not received a preliminary notice—the recovery notice under this section in relation to the matter.
(5AA)	If:
(a)	the person claiming compensation is a member of a couple; and
(b)	the person’s partner receives or is eligible for a compensation affected pension, or a compensation affected payment (under the Social Security Act), for a day or days in the lump sum preclusion period in respect of lump sum compensation received by the person on or after 20 March 1997;
the recoverable amount is equal to the smallest of the following amounts:
(c)	the sum of all the payments of compensation affected pension made to the person for the lump sum preclusion period;
(d)	the compensation part of the lump sum payment;
(e)	the maximum amount that the compensation payer is liable to pay to the person in relation to the matter at any time after receiving:
(i)	a preliminary notice under section 59Y in relation to the matter; or
(ii)	if the compensation payer has not received a preliminary notice—the recovery notice under this section in relation to the matter.
(5A)	If:
(a)	at the time of the event that gave rise to the entitlement of a person to compensation, the person was receiving a compensation affected pension; and
(b)	the person or the person’s partner is eligible for a compensation affected pension for a day or days in the periodic payments period;
the recoverable amount is the amount determined by the Commission to be the total amount by which the person’s, or the person’s partner’s, compensation affected pension for a day or days in the periodic payments period would have been reduced, because of point SCH6-E4 (payment of arrears of periodic compensation payments), if a determination had been made under section 56D, 56E, 56EA or 56EB.
(6)	A notice under this section must contain a statement of the effect of section 59ZD so far as it relates to a recovery notice.
(7)	This section applies to an amount payable by way of compensation in spite of any law of a State or Territory (however expressed) under which the compensation is inalienable.
59ZB Preliminary notice or recovery notice suspends liability to pay compensation
If a compensation payer has been given a preliminary notice under section 59Y or a recovery notice under section 59ZA in relation to the compensation payer’s liability, or possible liability, to pay compensation, the compensation payer is not liable to pay that compensation while the notice has effect.
59ZC Compensation payer’s payment to Commonwealth discharges liability to compensation recipient
If the Commonwealth is paid an amount that a compensation payer is liable to pay under section 59ZA in relation to a person, the compensation payer’s liability to pay compensation to the person is discharged to the extent of that amount.
59ZD Offence to make compensation payment after receiving preliminary notice or recovery notice
(1)	If a compensation payer has been given a preliminary notice under section 59Y or a recovery notice under section 59ZA in relation to the payment of compensation to a person, the compensation payer must not make the compensation payment to the person.
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 12 months.
(1A)	Subsection (1) does not apply if:
(a)	in the case of a preliminary notice—the Commission has given the compensation payer written notice that the preliminary notice is revoked; or
(b)	in the case of a recovery notice—the compensation payer has paid to the Commonwealth the amount specified in the notice; or
(c)	the Commission has given the compensation payer written permission to pay the compensation.
Note:	The defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in subsection (1A). See subsection 13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
(2)	A compensation payer who contravenes subsection (1) is, in addition to being liable to prosecution for an offence under subsection (1), liable to pay to the Commonwealth:
(a)	if the contravention relates to a preliminary notice—an amount determined by the Commission; and
(b)	if the contravention relates to a recovery notice—the recoverable amount specified in the notice.
(3)	The amount determined by the Commission under paragraph (2)(a) may not be more than the smallest of the amounts worked out under:
(a)	if the person is not a member of a couple—subsection 59ZA(4); or
(b)	if the person is a member of a couple—subsection 59ZA(5).
(4)	This section applies in relation to a payment by way of compensation in spite of any law of a State or Territory (however expressed) under which the compensation is inalienable.
	Division 5 — Insurers
59ZE Commission may send preliminary notice to insurer
(1)	If:
(a)	a person makes a claim against a potential compensation payer for compensation in respect of the person’s lost earnings or lost capacity to earn; and
(b)	the person receives or claims a compensation affected pension for a day or days to which the compensation relates; and
(c)	the potential compensation payer’s insurer, under a contract of insurance, may be liable to indemnify the potential compensation payer against any liability arising from the claim for compensation;
the Commission may give written notice to the insurer that the Commission may wish to recover an amount from the insurer.
(2)	The notice must contain:
(a)	a statement of the insurer’s obligation under section 59ZF; and
(b)	a statement of the effect of section 59ZJ so far as it relates to a preliminary notice.
59ZF Insurer must notify Department of liability
(1)	If an insurer:
(a)	is given notice under section 59ZE in relation to a claim; and
(b)	either before or after receiving the notice, becomes liable to indemnify the compensation payer, either wholly or partly, in relation to the claim;
the insurer must give written notice of the liability to the Department within 7 days after:
(c)	becoming liable; or
(d)	receiving the notice;
whichever happens later.
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 12 months.
Note:	Subsection 4B(2) of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose an appropriate fine instead of, or in addition to, a term of imprisonment. If a body corporate is convicted of the offence, subsection 4B(3) of that Act allows a court to impose a fine of an amount that is not greater than 5 times the maximum fine that could be imposed by the court on an individual convicted of the same offence.
(2)	The notice referred to in subsection (1) must be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T and is taken to have been given on a day determined under that section.
59ZG Commission may send recovery notice to insurer
(1)	If:
(a)	an insurer is liable, under a contract of insurance, to indemnify a compensation payer against any liability arising from a person’s claim for compensation in respect of the person’s lost earnings or lost capacity to earn; and
(b)	the person receives or claims a compensation affected pension for a day or days in the periodic payments period or the lump sum preclusion period; and
the Commission may give written notice to the insurer that the Commission proposes to recover the amount specified in the notice from the insurer.
(2)	If an insurer is given notice under subsection (1), the insurer is liable to pay to the Commonwealth the amount specified in the notice.
(3)	The amount specified in the notice is the recoverable amount and is worked out under subsections (4), (5) and (5AA), unless subsection (5A) applies in which case it is worked out under subsection (5A) instead.
(4)	If:
(a)	the person claiming compensation is not a member of a couple; or
(b)	the person claiming compensation is a member of a couple and the person’s partner neither receives nor claims:
(i)	a compensation affected pension; or
(ii)	a compensation affected payment (under the Social Security Act);
for any day or days in the periodic payments period or the lump sum preclusion period;
the recoverable amount is equal to the smallest of the following amounts:
(c)	the difference between:
(i)	the sum of the payments of compensation affected pension made to the person for a day or days in the periodic payments period or the lump sum preclusion period; and
(ii)	the sum of the payments of compensation affected pension that would have been made to the person for any such day or days had those payments been made at the rate to which the payments were reduced as a result of the operation of subsection 59T(1);
(d)	the compensation part of the lump sum payment or the sum of the amounts of the periodic compensation payments;
(e)	the maximum amount for which the insurer is liable to indemnify the compensation payer in relation to the matter at any time after receiving:
(i)	a preliminary notice under section 59ZE in relation to the matter; or
(ii)	if the insurer has not received a preliminary notice—the recovery notice under this section in relation to the matter.
(5)	If:
(a)	the person claiming compensation is a member of a couple; and
(b)	the person’s partner receives or is eligible for a compensation affected pension, or a compensation affected payment (under the Social Security Act), for a day or days in:
(i)	unless subparagraph (ii) applies—the periodic payments period in respect of the compensation; or
(ii)	if the compensation is lump sum compensation for which payment is received by the person or the person’s partner before 20 March 1997—the lump sum preclusion period;
the recoverable amount is equal to the smallest of the following amounts:
(c)	the difference between:
(i)	the sum of the payments of compensation affected pension, and of compensation affected payments under the Social Security Act, made to the person and the person’s partner for a day or days in the periodic payments period or the lump sum preclusion period; and
(ii)	the sum of the payments of compensation affected pension, and of compensation affected payments under the Social Security Act, that would have been made to the person and the person’s partner for any such day or days had those payments been made at the rate to which the payments were reduced as a result of the operation of subsection 59T(1) and section 59TA;
(d)	the compensation part of the lump sum payment or the sum of the amount of the periodic compensation payments;
(e)	the maximum amount for which the insurer is liable to indemnify the compensation payer in relation to the matter at any time after receiving:
(i)	a preliminary notice under section 59ZE in relation to the matter; or
(ii)	if the insurer has not received a preliminary notice—the recovery notice under this section in relation to the matter.
(5AA)	If:
(a)	the person claiming compensation is a member of a couple; and
(b)	the person’s partner receives or is eligible for a compensation affected pension, or a compensation affected payment (under the Social Security Act), for a day or days in the lump sum preclusion period in respect of lump sum compensation received by the person on or after 20 March 1997;
the recoverable amount is equal to the smallest of the following amounts:
(c)	the sum of all the payments of compensation affected pension made to the person for the lump sum preclusion period;
(d)	the compensation part of the lump sum payment;
(e)	the maximum amount for which the insurer is liable to indemnify the compensation payer in relation to the matter at any time after receiving:
(i)	a preliminary notice under section 59ZE in relation to the matter; or
(ii)	if the insurer has not received a preliminary notice—the recovery notice under this section in relation to the matter.
(5A)	If:
(a)	at the time of the event that gave rise to the entitlement of a person to compensation, the person was receiving a compensation affected pension; and
(b)	the person or the person’s partner is eligible for a compensation affected pension for a day or days in the periodic payments period;
the recoverable amount is the amount determined by the Commission to be the total amount by which the person’s, or the person’s partner’s, compensation affected pension for a day or days in the periodic payments period would have been reduced, because of point SCH6-E4 (payment of arrears of periodic compensation payments), if a determination had been made under section 56D, 56E, 56EA or 56EB.
(6)	A notice under this section must contain a statement of the effect of section 59ZJ so far as it relates to a recovery notice.
59ZH Preliminary notice or recovery notice to insurer suspends both insurer’s and compensation payer’s liability
If an insurer has been given a preliminary notice under section 59ZE or a recovery notice under section 59ZG in relation to the insurer’s liability, or possible liability, to indemnify a compensation payer against a liability arising from a claim for compensation:
(a)	the insurer is not liable to indemnify the compensation payer against that liability; and
(b)	the compensation payer is not liable to pay that compensation;
while the notice has effect.
59ZI Insurer’s payment to Commonwealth discharges liability
Payment of an amount that an insurer is liable to pay to the Commonwealth under section 59ZG in relation to a person claiming compensation operates, to the extent of the payment, as a discharge of:
(a)	the insurer’s liability to the compensation payer; and
(b)	the compensation payer’s liability to pay compensation to the person.
59ZJ Offence to make compensation payment after receiving preliminary notice or recovery notice
(1)	If an insurer has been given a preliminary notice under section 59ZE or a recovery notice under section 59ZG in relation to the insurer’s liability to make a payment indemnifying a compensation payer, the insurer must not make the payment to the compensation payer.
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 12 months.
(1A)	Subsection (1) does not apply if:
(a)	in the case of a preliminary notice—the Commission has given the insurer written notice that the preliminary notice is revoked; or
(b)	in the case of a recovery notice—the insurer has paid to the Commonwealth the amount specified in the notice; or
(c)	the Commission has given the insurer written permission to make the payment to the compensation payer.
Note:	The defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in subsection (1A). See subsection 13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
(2)	An insurer who contravenes subsection (1) is, in addition to being liable to prosecution for an offence under subsection (1), liable to pay to the Commonwealth:
(a)	if the contravention relates to a preliminary notice—an amount determined by the Commission; and
(b)	if the contravention relates to a recovery notice—the recoverable amount specified in the notice.
(3)	The amount determined by the Commission under paragraph (2)(a) may not be more than the smallest of the amounts worked out under:
(a)	if the person claiming compensation is not a member of a couple—subsection 59ZG(4); or
(b)	if the person claiming compensation is a member of a couple—subsection 59ZG(5).
	Division 6 — Miscellaneous
59ZK Commission may give recovery notice either to compensation payer or to insurer but not to both
(1)	The Commission is not to give a recovery notice to an insurer (under section 59ZG) about a matter if there is a recovery notice to a compensation payer (under section 59ZA) in force in relation to the same matter.
(2)	The Commission is not to give a recovery notice to a compensation payer (under section 59ZA) about a matter if there is a recovery notice to an insurer (under section 59ZG) in force in relation to the same matter.
59ZL Commission may disregard some payments
(1)	For the purposes of this Part, the Commission may treat the whole or part of a compensation payment as:
(a)	not having been made; or
(b)	not liable to be made;
if the Commission thinks it is appropriate to do so in the special circumstances of the case.
(2)	If:
(a)	a person or a person’s partner is eligible for a compensation affected pension; and
(b)	the person receives compensation; and
(c)	the set of circumstances that gave rise to the compensation is not related to the set of circumstances that give rise to the person’s or the person’s partner’s eligibility for the compensation affected pension;
the fact that those 2 sets of circumstances are unrelated does not alone constitute special circumstances for the purposes of subsection (1).
59ZM Part to bind Crown
This Part binds the Crown in right of the Commonwealth, of each of the States, of the Australian Capital Territory and of the Northern Territory.
Part IIID—Quarterly pension supplement
60 When this Part applies
(1)	This Part applies to a person if:
(a)	the person is receiving a service pension or income support supplement (the main payment); and
(b)	the person is residing in Australia and:
(i)	is in Australia; or
(ii)	is temporarily absent from Australia and has been so for a continuous period not exceeding 6 weeks.
(2)	For the purposes of subsection (1), it does not matter if the rate of the person’s main payment would become nil were an election by the person under subsection 60A(1) to come into force.
60A Quarterly pension supplement
(1)	The person may, in a manner or way approved by the Commission, make an election to receive the person’s minimum pension supplement amount on a quarterly basis as a separate payment.
(2)	An election comes into force as soon as practicable after it is made.
(3)	An election ceases to be in force if the main payment ceases to be payable to the person.
(4)	The person may, in a manner or way approved by the Commission, revoke an election. A revocation takes effect as soon as practicable after it happens.
(5)	Quarterly pension supplement is payable to the person in relation to each day on which an election is in force.
60B Rate of quarterly pension supplement
(1)	The person’s annual rate of quarterly pension supplement is the person’s minimum pension supplement amount.
(2)	The person’s daily rate of quarterly pension supplement is worked out by dividing the person’s annual rate by 364.
(3)	This section has effect subject to subclause 4(4) of Schedule 6.
60C Payment of quarterly pension supplement
(1)	Quarterly pension supplement is to be paid by instalments.
(2)	An instalment of quarterly pension supplement is to be paid to a person as soon as is reasonably practicable after the end of an instalment period.
(3)	The amount of the instalment is worked out by multiplying the person’s daily rate of quarterly pension supplement by the number of days in the instalment period.
(4)	If:
(a)	an election by the person under subsection 60A(1) is in force on a particular day; and
(b)	apart from this subsection, the portion of the instalment of the person’s quarterly pension supplement that corresponds to that day would be reduced under subclause 4(4) of Schedule 6, but not reduced to a nil amount;
the amount of that portion of the instalment is not to be reduced under subclause 4(4) of Schedule 6.
(5)	In this section:
instalment period means a period:
(a)	in relation to each day of which quarterly pension supplement is payable to the person; and
Note:	For when quarterly pension supplement is payable to the person, see section 60A.
(b)	that either begins on any 20 March, 20 June, 20 September or 20 December or does not include any such day; and
(c)	that either ends on any 19 March, 19 June, 19 September or 19 December or does not include any such day; and
(d)	that is not included in a longer instalment period.
Part IIIE—Clean energy payments
	Division 2 — Energy supplements
Subdivision A—Energy supplements for pensions under Parts II and IV
62A Energy supplement for veterans and members of Defence Force or Peacekeeping Force
(1)	This section applies to a person for a day if:
(a)	the person receives for the day a pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to section 22, 23, 24 or 27; and
(b)	the person’s rate of the pension is greater than nil; and
(c)	the person is residing in Australia on the day; and
(d)	on the day the person either:
(i)	is in Australia; or
(ii)	is temporarily absent from Australia and has been so for a continuous period not exceeding 6 weeks.
Note:	Section 62C may affect whether a person meets the conditions in paragraphs (1)(a) and (b) of this section.
Energy supplement payable
(2)	The Commonwealth is liable to pay the person for the day energy supplement for the person’s pension.
Note 1:	The supplement is a payment separate from the pension.
Note 2:	Section 65A may affect the person’s entitlement to the energy supplement.
Rate of energy supplement
(3)	The fortnightly rate of energy supplement for the pension is the rate worked out using the table. For this purpose, ignore subsections 23(5) and (6), sections 25A and 26, Division 5A of Part II and section 74 in working out the rate of the person’s pension under section 27 if that section is relevant.
Fortnightly rate of energy supplement
Item
If the rate of the person’s pension:
the rate of energy supplement is:
1
Is worked out under or by reference to subsection 22(3) but not section 27
$7.70
2
Is worked out under or by reference to subsection 22(4) but not section 27
$11.80
3
Is worked out under or by reference to subsection 23(4) but not section 27
$14.50
4
Is worked out under or by reference to subsection 24(4) but not section 27
$21.50
5
Is worked out under or by reference to section 27 and is not more than the rate specified in subsection 22(3)
$7.70
6
Is worked out under or by reference to section 27 and is:
(a) more than the rate specified in subsection 22(3); and
(b) not more than the rate specified in subsection 22(4)
$11.80
7
Is worked out under or by reference to section 27 and is:
(a) more than the rate specified in subsection 22(4); and
(b) not more than the rate specified in subsection 23(4)
$14.50
8
Is worked out under or by reference to section 27 and is more than the rate specified in subsection 23(4)
$21.50
62B Energy supplement for war widow/war widower pension
(1)	This section applies to a person for a day if:
(a)	the person receives for the day a pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to subsection 30(1); and
(b)	the person’s rate of the pension is greater than nil; and
(c)	the person is residing in Australia on the day; and
(d)	on the day the person either:
(i)	is in Australia; or
(ii)	is temporarily absent from Australia and has been so for a continuous period not exceeding 6 weeks.
Note:	Section 62C may affect whether a person meets the conditions in paragraphs (1)(a) and (b) of this section.
Energy supplement payable
(2)	The Commonwealth is liable to pay the person for the day energy supplement for the person’s pension.
Note 1:	The supplement is a payment separate from the pension.
Note 2:	Section 65A may affect the person’s entitlement to the energy supplement.
Rate of energy supplement
(3)	The fortnightly rate of energy supplement for the pension is $14.20.
62C Disregard nil rate in certain circumstances
For the purposes of sections 62A and 62B, a person is taken to receive a pension under Part II or IV at a rate greater than nil even if the person’s rate would be nil, or pension would not be payable, merely because the rate is reduced, or pension is not payable, under Division 4, 5 or 5A of Part II or section 74.
62D Electing for quarterly payment of energy supplement for pension under Part II or IV
Election
(1)	A person may, in a manner or way approved by the Commission, make an election to be paid quarterly instalments of:
(a)	the person’s energy supplement under section 62A; or
(b)	the person’s energy supplement under section 62B.
Note 1:	If the person is receiving both kinds of pension under Part II or IV, he or she may make an election relating to one kind but not the other or make separate elections for each kind.
Note 2:	If a person does not make an election to be paid quarterly instalments of the energy supplement for one of those kinds of pensions, the supplement for that kind of pension will be paid in instalments under section 121.
(2)	The election:
(a)	comes into force as soon as practicable after it is made; and
(b)	ceases to be in force if the pension ceases to be payable to the person; and
(c)	may be revoked by the person, in a manner or way approved by the Commission, with effect as soon as practicable after the revocation is made.
Quarterly payment
(3)	An instalment of the energy supplement is to be paid to the person as soon as is reasonably practicable after the end of an instalment period.
(4)	The amount of the instalment is the total amount of the energy supplement payable to the person for the days in the instalment period. For this purpose, the rate of the energy supplement payable for a day is 1/14 of the fortnightly rate of the supplement that applied on that day.
(5)	In this section:
instalment period means a period:
(a)	on each day of which the election is in force; and
(b)	that either begins on any 20 March, 20 June, 20 September or 20 December or does not include any such day; and
(c)	that either ends on any 19 March, 19 June, 19 September or 19 December or does not include any such day; and
(d)	that is not included in a longer instalment period.
Subdivision B—Quarterly energy supplement for service pension
62E Quarterly energy supplement for service pension
(1)	Quarterly energy supplement for service pension that a person is receiving is payable, as a separate payment, to the person for each day for which an election by the person is in force under subsection 60A(1).
Note:	Section 65A may affect the person’s entitlement to quarterly energy supplement.
(2)	An instalment of quarterly energy supplement is to be paid to the person as soon as is reasonably practicable after the end of an instalment period.
(3)	The amount of the instalment is the total amount of the quarterly energy supplement payable to the person for the days in the instalment period.
(4)	For the purposes of subsection (3), the rate of quarterly energy supplement payable for a day is 1/364 of what would be the person’s energy supplement under the Rate Calculator for the day apart from this section.
(4A)	In this section:
instalment period means a period:
(a)	for each day of which quarterly energy supplement for service pension that the person is receiving is payable to the person; and
(b)	that either begins on any 20 March, 20 June, 20 September or 20 December or does not include any such day; and
(c)	that either ends on any 19 March, 19 June, 19 September or 19 December or does not include any such day; and
(d)	that is not included in a longer instalment period.
Reductions
(5)	This section is subject to subclause 4(5) of Schedule 6.
(6)	If:
(a)	an election by the person under subsection 60A(1) is in force on a particular day; and
(b)	apart from this subsection, the portion of the instalment of the person’s quarterly energy supplement that corresponds to that day would be reduced under subclause 4(5) of Schedule 6; and
(c)	the reduction of the main rate mentioned in paragraph 4(5)(a) would not be to a nil amount;
the amount of that portion of the instalment is not to be reduced under subclause 4(5) of Schedule 6.
	Division 3 — Essential medical equipment payment
Subdivision A—Definitions
63A Definitions
In this Division:
EMEP residence has the meaning given by subsection 63C(1).
essential medical equipment payment:
(a)	means an essential medical equipment payment under this Division (except in section 63F); and
(b)	in section 63F—has the meaning given by that section.
medical equipment, in relation to a person who satisfies the medical needs requirement under paragraph 63C(1)(b), means the heating or cooling system (as the case requires) of the residence described in that paragraph.
person with medical needs has the meaning given by paragraph 63C(2)(b).
Subdivision B—Eligibility for essential medical equipment payment
63B Eligibility for essential medical equipment payment
(1)	A person (the claimant) is eligible for an essential medical equipment payment for an income year if:
(a)	the Commission is satisfied that the claimant satisfies each of the following on the EMEP test day:
(i)	the medical needs requirement in section 63C;
(ii)	the concession requirement in section 63D;
(iii)	the energy account requirement in section 63E; and
(b)	a medical practitioner has (subject to subsection (2)) certified that:
(i)	the claimant meets the medical needs requirement under subsection 63C(1) on a day; or
(ii)	another specified person meets the medical needs requirement under subsection 63C(1) on a day;
(as the case requires); and
(c)	the claimant is not prevented from receiving an essential medical equipment payment by section 63F; and
(d)	the claimant is not a dependent child of another person on the EMEP test day; and
(e)	the claimant is in Australia on the EMEP test day.
(2)	Paragraph (1)(b) does not apply if the Commission is otherwise satisfied that the claimant or another specified person meets the medical needs requirement in section 63C.
Meaning of EMEP test day
(3)	For the purposes of subsection (1), the EMEP test day is either:
(a)	the day in the income year referred to in subsection (1) on which the claimant makes the claim for the payment; or
(b)	an anniversary (in the income year referred to in subsection (1)) of the day on which the claimant made a claim for the payment if:
(i)	the claimant made the claim in a previous income year; and
(ii)	since the claimant made the claim, the Commission has not determined that the claimant has ceased to be eligible for the payment.
Note:	For claims, see Subdivision C.
Determining eligibility for later income years
(4)	In determining whether a person is eligible for an essential medical equipment payment for an income year after the income year in which the claim for the payment is made, the Commission:
(a)	may act on the basis of the documents and information in its possession; and
(b)	is not required to conduct any inquiries or investigations into the matter or to require (whether under this Act or otherwise) the giving of any information or the production of any document.
(5)	Despite subsection (4), the Commission may require a further certification for the purposes of paragraph (1)(b), or further information or a further document for the purposes of subsection (2), in an income year after the income year in which the claim is made.
63C The medical needs requirement
Person who has medical needs
(1)	A person satisfies the medical needs requirement on a day if:
(a)	the person has a medical condition on that day, and as a result:
(i)	the person requires the use of specified essential medical equipment in a residence (the EMEP residence) that is the person’s home and is either a private residence or a specified residence; and
(ii)	the person uses that equipment in that residence; or
(b)	the person has a specified medical condition on that day, and as a result:
(i)	the person is unable to regulate his or her body temperature; and
(ii)	additional heating or cooling is required, in a residence (the EMEP residence) that is the person’s home and is either a private residence or a specified residence, to manage the person’s condition; and
(iii)	the person uses additional heating or cooling in that residence.
Caring for a person who has medical needs
(2)	A person (the carer) also satisfies the medical needs requirement on a day if:
(a)	the carer provides care and attention on a regular and ongoing basis for a person; and
(b)	the person (the person with medical needs) satisfies the medical needs requirement under subsection (1) on the day; and
(c)	the person with medical needs is specified in the certification under subparagraph 63B(1)(b)(ii) or is the person specified for the purposes of subsection 63B(2) (as the case requires); and
(d)	the carer’s home is the EMEP residence that is the home of the person with medical needs.
Meaning of specified essential medical equipment, specified medical condition and specified residence
(3)	In this section:
specified essential medical equipment means any medical equipment that is specified under subsection 917C(3) of the Social Security Act.
specified medical condition means any medical condition that is specified under subsection 917C(3) of the Social Security Act.
specified residence means any residence that is specified under subsection 917C(3) of the Social Security Act.
63D The concession requirement
(1)	A person satisfies the concession requirement on a day if:
(a)	the person is a holder of a concession card, or the person’s name is included on a concession card, on that day; or
(b)	both of the following apply:
(i)	the person satisfies the medical needs requirement under subsection 63C(2) (caring for a person) on that day in relation to a person with medical needs;
(ii)	the person with medical needs is a holder of a concession card, or the name of the person with medical needs is included on a concession card, on that day; or
(c)	under section 53A, the person is eligible for fringe benefits on that day.
(2)	For the purposes of subsection (1), a concession card means any of the following cards:
(b)	a seniors health card issued under Part VIIC;
(c)	a card known as the Repatriation Health Card—For All Conditions, that evidences a person’s eligibility, under this Act or the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 2004, to be provided with treatment for all injuries or diseases;
(d)	a card known as the Repatriation Health Card—For Specific Conditions, that evidences a person’s eligibility, under this Act or the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 2004, to be provided with treatment for specific injuries or diseases.
63E The energy account requirement
(1)	A person satisfies the energy account requirement on a day if:
(a)	on that day, the energy account for the relevant EMEP residence is in the name of that person; or
(b)	on that day, the energy account for the relevant EMEP residence is in the name of that person’s partner; or
(c)	the person contributes (whether wholly or partly) to paying the energy account for the relevant EMEP residence; or
(d)	if the person is not the person with medical needs—the person with medical needs contributes (whether wholly or partly) to paying the energy account for the relevant EMEP residence.
(2)	For the purposes of subsection (1), an energy account for a residence means any account for:
(a)	electricity; or
(b)	any other specified form of energy;
that is supplied to the residence.
(3)	In this section:
specified form of energy means any form of energy that is specified under subsection 917E(3) of the Social Security Act.
63F Availability of payments
(1)	No essential medical equipment payment may be made for an income year in relation to medical equipment that is used in an EMEP residence if an essential medical equipment payment has already been made for that income year in relation to the same equipment and the same residence.
(2)	No more than 2 essential medical equipment payments may be made in relation to the same medical equipment for an income year (subject to subsection (1)).
(3)	Essential medical equipment payments may not be made, in relation to a person with medical needs, in relation to more than 2 EMEP residences.
Meaning of essential medical equipment payment
(4)	In this section, an essential medical equipment payment means an essential medical equipment payment under this Division or Division 4 of Part 2.18A of the Social Security Act.
63G Amount of payment
The amount of an essential medical equipment payment for an income year is $140.
Note:	The amount specified is indexed on each 1 July (see section 198E).
63H Debts arising in respect of essential medical equipment payments
(1)	If:
(a)	an individual has been paid an essential medical equipment payment because of a determination made under this Division; and
(b)	after the payment was made to the individual, the determination is or was (however described) changed, revoked, set aside, or superseded by another determination; and
(c)	the decision to change, revoke, set aside or supersede the determination is or was made for the reason, or for reasons including the reason, that the individual knowingly made a false or misleading statement, or knowingly provided false information; and
(d)	apart from that statement or information, the payment would not have been paid to the individual;
the amount of the payment is a debt due to the Commonwealth by the individual.
(2)	The other provisions of this Act under which debts arise do not apply in relation to essential medical equipment payments.
Subdivision C—Claim for essential medical equipment payment
63J Need for a claim
A person who wants to be paid an essential medical equipment payment must make a proper claim.
Note:	For proper claim see section 63M (form) and section 63N (residence in Australia).
63K Special requirements regarding claims for essential medical equipment payment
(1)	A claim for an essential medical equipment payment must include a statement by the person making the claim that the medical equipment to which the claim relates is used in the relevant EMEP residence.
(2)	If:
(a)	a person who provides care and attention for a person with medical needs makes a claim for an essential medical equipment payment; and
(b)	the person with medical needs is not a dependent child of that or any other person;
the claim must be signed by the person with medical needs.
63L Who can claim?
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), a claim must be made by:
(a)	the person who wants to be paid an essential medical equipment payment; or
(b)	with the approval of the person—another person on the person’s behalf.
(2)	If the person is unable, because of physical or mental incapacity, to approve another person to make the claim on his or her behalf, the Commission may approve another person to make the claim.
63M Making a claim
(1)	To be a proper claim, the claim must be:
(a)	made in writing; and
(b)	in accordance with a form approved by the Commission; and
(c)	accompanied by any evidence available to the claimant that the claimant considers may be relevant to the claim; and
(d)	lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(2)	A claim lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
63N Claimant must be an Australian resident
A claim is not a proper claim unless the person making the claim, or on whose behalf the claim is being made, is an Australian resident on the day on which the claim is lodged.
Note:	For Australian resident see section 5G.
63P Claim may be withdrawn
(1)	A claimant for an essential medical equipment payment or a person on behalf of a claimant may withdraw a claim that has not been determined.
(2)	A claim that is withdrawn is taken to have not been made.
(3)	A withdrawal may be made either orally or by document lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
Oral withdrawal of a claim
(4)	An oral withdrawal of a claim must be made to a person in an office of the Department in Australia.
Acknowledgement of oral withdrawal of a claim
(5)	As soon as practicable after receiving an oral withdrawal of a claim, the Secretary must give the claimant an acknowledgement notice in writing stating that:
(a)	an oral withdrawal of the claim was made; and
(b)	the claimant, or a person on behalf of the claimant, may, within 28 days from the day the acknowledgement notice is given, request the Secretary to treat the withdrawal as if it had not been made.
Reactivating the withdrawn claim
(6)	If, within 28 days from the day on which the Secretary gave the acknowledgement notice, a claimant, or a person on behalf of a claimant, requests the Secretary to treat the oral withdrawal of the claim as if it had not been made, the oral withdrawal is taken not to have been made.
Note:	A request made under paragraph (5)(b) has the effect of reactivating the claim. In particular, the commencement day of the claim stays the same.
Subdivision D—Investigation of claim
63Q Secretary to investigate claim and submit it to Commission
(1)	If a person makes a proper claim for an essential medical equipment payment, the Secretary must investigate the matters to which the claim relates.
(2)	When the investigation is completed, the Secretary must submit the claim to the Commission for consideration and determination.
(3)	When the claim is submitted to the Commission it must be accompanied by:
(a)	any evidence supplied by the claimant in support of the claim; and
(b)	any documents or other evidence obtained by the Department in the course of the investigation that are relevant to the claim; and
(c)	any other documents or other evidence under the control of the Department that are relevant to the claim.
Subdivision E—Consideration and determination of claim
63R Duties of Commission in relation to claim
(1)	When the claim is submitted to the Commission, the Commission must consider all matters that are, in the Commission’s opinion, relevant to the claim and must then determine the claim.
(2)	In considering the claim, the Commission must:
(a)	satisfy itself with respect to; or
(b)	determine;
(as the case requires) all matters relevant to the determination of the claim.
(3)	Without limiting subsection (1), the Commission, in considering the claim, must consider:
(a)	the evidence submitted with the claim under section 63Q; and
(b)	any further evidence subsequently submitted to the Commission in relation to the claim.
Note:	A claimant may apply to the Commission for review of a determination made under this section (see section 64A).
63S Entitlement determination
The Commission must determine that a person is entitled to an essential medical equipment payment if the Commission is satisfied that the person is eligible for the payment.
63T Date of effect of determination
A determination under section 63S takes effect, on the day that the determination is made or on such later day or earlier day as is specified in the determination.
	Division 4 — Review of decisions
64A Review of certain decisions
A person who is dissatisfied with a decision of the Commission in relation to a clean energy payment, except quarterly energy supplement, may request the Commission to review the decision.
64B Application for review
(1)	A request for review of a decision under section 64A must:
(a)	be made within 3 months after the person seeking review was notified of the decision; and
(b)	set out the grounds on which the request is made; and
(c)	be in writing; and
(d)	be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(2)	A request lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
(3)	If a request for review of a decision is made in accordance with subsection (1), the Commission must review the decision.
(4)	If the Commission has delegated its powers under this section to the person who made the decision under review, that person must not review the decision.
64C Commission’s powers where request for review
(1)	If the Commission reviews a decision under this Part, the Commission must affirm the decision or set it aside.
(2)	If the Commission sets the decision aside it must, subject to subsection (3), substitute a new decision in accordance with this Act.
(3)	If the decision set aside is a decision that a person ceases to be entitled to a clean energy payment (except quarterly energy supplement), the Commission need not substitute another decision.
Note:	For the Commission’s evidence gathering powers, see section 64G.
64D Date of effect of certain review decisions
(1)	If the Commission sets aside a decision and substitutes for it a decision that a person is entitled to a clean energy payment (except quarterly energy supplement), the substituted decision takes effect from a date specified by the Commission.
(2)	The date specified by the Commission must not be earlier than the date from which, had the Commission determined that the person is entitled to a clean energy payment (except quarterly energy supplement), such a determination could have taken effect.
64E Commission must make written record of review decision and reasons
(1)	When the Commission reviews a decision under this Part it must make a written record of its decision upon review.
(2)	The written record must include a statement that:
(a)	sets out the Commission’s findings on material questions of fact; and
(b)	refers to the evidence or other material on which those findings are based; and
(c)	provides reasons for the Commission’s decision.
64F Person who requested review to be notified of decision
(1)	When the Commission affirms or sets aside a decision under this Part it must give the person who requested the review of the decision:
(a)	a copy of the Commission’s decision; and
(b)	subject to subsection (2), a copy of the statement about the decision referred to in subsection 64E(2); and
(c)	if the person has a right to apply to the Administrative Review Tribunal for review of the Commission’s decision—a statement giving the person particulars of that right.
(2)	If the statement referred to in paragraph (1)(b) contains any matter that, in the opinion of the Commission:
(a)	is of a confidential nature; or
(b)	might, if communicated to the person who requested review, be prejudicial to his or her physical or mental health or well-being;
the copy given to the person is not to contain that matter.
64G Powers of Commission to gather evidence
(1)	The Commission or the Commission’s delegate may, in reviewing a decision under this Part:
(a)	take evidence on oath or affirmation for the purposes of the review; and
(b)	adjourn a hearing of the review from time to time.
(2)	The presiding member of the Commission or the Commission’s delegate may, for the purposes of the review:
(a)	summon a person to appear at a hearing of the review to give evidence and to produce such documents (if any) as are referred to in the summons; and
(b)	require a person appearing at a hearing of the review for the purpose of giving evidence either to take an oath or to make an affirmation; and
(c)	administer an oath or affirmation to a person so appearing.
(3)	The person who applied for the review under this Division is a competent and compellable witness upon the hearing of the review.
(4)	The oath or affirmation to be taken or made by a person for the purposes of this section is an oath or affirmation that the evidence that the person will give will be true.
(5)	The Commission’s power under paragraph (1)(a) to take evidence on oath or affirmation:
(a)	may be exercised on behalf of the Commission by:
(i)	the presiding member or the Commission’s delegate; or
(ii)	another person (whether a member or not) authorised by the presiding member or the Commission’s delegate; and
(b)	may be exercised within or outside Australia; and
(c)	must be exercised subject to any limitations specified by the Commission.
(6)	Where a person is authorised under subparagraph (5)(a)(ii) to take evidence for the purposes of a review, the person has:
(a)	all the powers of the Commission under subsection (1); and
(b)	all the powers of the presiding member under subsection (2);
for the purposes of taking that evidence.
(7)	In this section:
Commission’s delegate means a person to whom the Commission has delegated its powers under section 64B and who is conducting the review in question.
64H Withdrawal of request for review
(1)	A person who requests a review under section 64A may withdraw the request at any time before it is determined by the Commission.
(2)	To withdraw the request, the person must give written notice of withdrawal to the Secretary and the notice must be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(3)	Subject to section 64B, a person who withdraws a request for review may subsequently make another request for review of the same decision.
Note:	Section 64B provides that a person who wants to request a review of a decision must do so within 3 months after the person has received notice of the decision.
	Division 5 — Multiple entitlement exclusions
65A Multiple entitlement exclusions
(1)	The Commission may by legislative instrument determine that persons in circumstances specified in the instrument are not entitled to a clean energy bonus under this Act that is specified in the instrument.
Note:	For clean energy bonus see subsection 5Q(1).
(2)	Those circumstances must relate to persons’ entitlement to or receipt of one or more of the following:
(a)	another clean energy bonus under this Act;
(b)	a clean energy bonus under the MRCA;
(c)	a clean energy bonus under the Social Security Act;
(d)	a clean energy bonus under a scheme (however described), whether or not the scheme is provided for by or under an Act.
(3)	An instrument under subsection (1) has effect according to its terms, despite any other provision of this Act.
Part IIIF—One-off energy assistance payment
66 One-off energy assistance payment—this Act
Service pension or income support supplement
(1)	A person is eligible for a one-off energy assistance payment if:
(a)	service pension or income support supplement is payable to the person on 20 June 2017; and
(b)	service pension or income support supplement is so payable because of a claim the person made on or before 20 June 2017; and
(c)	the person is residing in Australia on 20 June 2017.
(2)	The amount of a person’s one-off energy assistance payment under subsection (1) is worked out using the following table, having regard to the person’s situation on 20 June 2017:
Energy assistance payment
Item
Person’s situation on 20 June 2017
Amount of one-off energy assistance payment
1
Not a member of a couple
$75
2
Partnered
$62.50
3
Member of an illness separated couple
$75
4
Member of a respite care couple
$75
Note:	For member of a couple, partnered, illness separated couple and respite care couple see subsections 5E(1) and (5) and 5R(5) and (6).
Pension under Part II or IV
(3)	A person is eligible for a one-off energy assistance payment if:
(a)	the person receives for 20 June 2017 a pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to section 22, 23, 24 or 27; and
(b)	the person’s rate of the pension is greater than nil for 20 June 2017; and
(c)	the person is residing in Australia on 20 June 2017.
(4)	A person is eligible for a one-off energy assistance payment if:
(a)	the person receives for 20 June 2017 a pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to subsection 30(1); and
(b)	the person’s rate of the pension is greater than nil for 20 June 2017; and
(c)	the person is residing in Australia on 20 June 2017.
(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4), a person is taken to receive a pension under Part II or IV at a rate greater than nil even if the person’s rate would be nil, or pension would not be payable, merely because the rate is reduced, or pension is not payable, under Division 4, 5 or 5A of Part II or section 74.
(6)	The amount of a person’s one-off energy assistance payment under subsection (3) or (4) is $75.
67 One-off energy assistance payment—MRCA
Compensation for permanent impairment
(1)	A person is eligible for a one-off energy assistance payment if:
(a)	the condition in subsection (2) is met; and
(b)	the person is residing in Australia on 20 June 2017.
(2)	The condition is that either or both of the following apply:
(a)	weekly compensation under Part 2 of Chapter 4 of the MRCA:
(i)	is payable to the person for 20 June 2017; or
(ii)	would be payable to the person for 20 June 2017 apart from paragraph 398(3)(b) of the MRCA and offsetting described in subsection 13(4) of the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation (Consequential and Transitional Provisions) Act 2004;
(b)	before 20 June 2017 the person received lump sum compensation under Part 2 of Chapter 4 of the MRCA.
Special Rate Disability Pension
(3)	A person is eligible for a one-off energy assistance payment if:
(a)	Special Rate Disability Pension under the MRCA:
(i)	is payable to the person for 20 June 2017; or
(ii)	would be payable to the person for 20 June 2017 apart from section 204, and paragraph 398(3)(b), of the MRCA; and
(b)	the person is residing in Australia on 20 June 2017.
Compensation for wholly dependent partners
(4)	A person is eligible for a one-off energy assistance payment if:
(a)	the condition in subsection (5) is met; and
(b)	the person is residing in Australia on 20 June 2017.
(5)	The condition is that either or both of the following apply:
(a)	weekly compensation under Division 2 of Part 2 of Chapter 5 of the MRCA either:
(i)	is payable to the person for 20 June 2017; or
(ii)	would be payable to the person for 20 June 2017 apart from paragraph 398(3)(b) of the MRCA;
(b)	before 20 June 2017 the person received lump sum compensation under Division 2 of Part 2 of Chapter 5 of the MRCA and subsection 388(6) of the MRCA has not applied to the person before 20 June 2017.
Amount of one-off energy assistance payment
(6)	The amount of a person’s one-off energy assistance payment under this section is $75.
67A One-off energy assistance payment—Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988
(1)	A person is eligible for a one-off energy assistance payment if:
(a)	at any time, the person has received a payment of compensation under section 24 of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988; and
(b)	the payment was made because of a defence-related claim (within the meaning of Part XI of that Act) the person made on or before 20 June 2017; and
(c)	the person is residing in Australia on 20 June 2017.
Amount of one-off energy assistance payment
(2)	The amount of a person’s one-off energy assistance payment under this section is $75.
67B More than one entitlement
More than one entitlement under this Part
(1)	A person may receive one payment only under this Part, regardless of how many times the person becomes eligible under this Part.
More than one entitlement under this Part and the Social Security Act
(2)	If a payment under Part 2.6 of the Social Security Act is paid to a person, no payment under this Part can be paid to the person.
67C Claim not required for one-off energy assistance payment
A claim is not required for a one-off energy assistance payment under this Part.
67D Payment of one-off energy assistance payment
If a person is eligible for a one-off energy assistance payment under this Part, the Commission must pay the payment to the person in a single lump sum:
(a)	on the date that the Commission considers to be the earliest date on which it is reasonably practicable for the payment to be made; and
(b)	in such manner as the Commission considers appropriate.
Part IIIG—2019 one-off energy assistance payment
67E One-off energy assistance payment—this Act
Service pension or income support supplement
(1)	A person is eligible for a one-off energy assistance payment if:
(a)	service pension or income support supplement is payable to the person on 2 April 2019; and
(b)	service pension or income support supplement is so payable because of a claim the person made on or before 2 April 2019; and
(c)	the person is residing in Australia on 2 April 2019.
(2)	The amount of a person’s one-off energy assistance payment under subsection (1) is worked out using the following table, having regard to the person’s situation on 2 April 2019.
Energy assistance payment
Item
Person’s situation on 2 April 2019
Amount of one-off energy assistance payment
1
Not a member of a couple
$75
2
Partnered
$62.50
3
Member of an illness separated couple
$75
4
Member of a respite care couple
$75
Note:	For member of a couple, partnered, illness separated couple and respite care couple, see subsections 5E(1) and (5) and 5R(5) and (6).
Pension under Part II or IV or veteran payment
(3)	A person is eligible for a one-off energy assistance payment if:
(a)	the person receives for 2 April 2019 a pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to section 22, 23, 24 or 27; and
(b)	the person’s rate of the pension is greater than nil for 2 April 2019; and
(c)	the person is residing in Australia on 2 April 2019.
(4)	A person is eligible for a one-off energy assistance payment if:
(a)	the person receives for 2 April 2019 a pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to subsection 30(1); and
(b)	the person’s rate of the pension is greater than nil for 2 April 2019; and
(c)	the person is residing in Australia on 2 April 2019.
(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4), a person is taken to receive a pension under Part II or IV at a rate greater than nil even if the person’s rate would be nil, or pension would not be payable, merely because the rate is reduced, or pension is not payable, under Division 4, 5 or 5A of Part II or section 74.
(6)	A person is eligible for a one-off energy assistance payment if:
(a)	veteran payment is payable to the person on 2 April 2019; and
(b)	veteran payment is so payable because of a claim made on or before 2 April 2019; and
(c)	the person is residing in Australia on 2 April 2019.
(7)	The amount of a person’s one-off energy assistance payment under subsection (3), (4) or (6) is $75.
67F One-off energy assistance payment—MRCA
Compensation for permanent impairment
(1)	A person is eligible for a one-off energy assistance payment if:
(a)	the condition in subsection (2) is met; and
(b)	the person is residing in Australia on 2 April 2019.
(2)	The condition is that either or both of the following apply:
(a)	weekly compensation under Part 2 of Chapter 4 of the MRCA:
(i)	is payable to the person for 2 April 2019; or
(ii)	would be payable to the person for 2 April 2019 apart from paragraph 398(3)(b) of the MRCA and offsetting described in subsection 13(4) of the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation (Consequential and Transitional Provisions) Act 2004;
(b)	before 2 April 2019 the person received lump sum compensation under Part 2 of Chapter 4 of the MRCA.
Special Rate Disability Pension
(3)	A person is eligible for a one-off energy assistance payment if:
(a)	Special Rate Disability Pension under the MRCA:
(i)	is payable to the person for 2 April 2019; or
(ii)	would be payable to the person for 2 April 2019 apart from section 204, and paragraph 398(3)(b), of the MRCA; and
(b)	the person is residing in Australia on 2 April 2019.
Compensation for wholly dependent partners
(4)	A person is eligible for a one-off energy assistance payment if:
(a)	the condition in subsection (5) is met; and
(b)	the person is residing in Australia on 2 April 2019.
(5)	The condition is that either or both of the following apply:
(a)	weekly compensation under Division 2 of Part 2 of Chapter 5 of the MRCA either:
(i)	is payable to the person for 2 April 2019; or
(ii)	would be payable to the person for 2 April 2019 apart from paragraph 398(3)(b) of the MRCA;
(b)	before 2 April 2019 the person received lump sum compensation under Division 2 of Part 2 of Chapter 5 of the MRCA and subsection 388(6) of the MRCA has not applied to the person before 2 April 2019.
Amount of one-off energy assistance payment
(6)	The amount of a person’s one-off energy assistance payment under this section is $75.
67G One-off energy assistance payment—Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988
(1)	A person is eligible for a one-off energy assistance payment if:
(a)	at any time, the person has received a payment of compensation under section 24 of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988; and
(b)	the payment was made because of a claim the person made on or before 2 April 2019; and
(c)	the person is residing in Australia on 2 April 2019.
Amount of one-off energy assistance payment
(2)	The amount of a person’s one-off energy assistance payment under this section is $75.
67H More than one entitlement
More than one entitlement under this Part
(1)	A person may receive one payment only under this Part, regardless of how many times the person becomes eligible under this Part.
More than one entitlement under this Part and the Social Security Act
(2)	If a payment under Part 2.6A of the Social Security Act is paid to a person, no payment under this Part can be paid to the person.
67J Claim not required for one-off energy assistance payment
A claim is not required for a one-off energy assistance payment under this Part.
67K Payment of one-off energy assistance payment
If a person is eligible for a one-off energy assistance payment under this Part, the Commission must pay the payment to the person in a single lump sum:
(a)	on the date that the Commission considers to be the earliest date on which it is reasonably practicable for the payment to be made; and
(b)	in such manner as the Commission considers appropriate.
Part IIIH—2020 economic support payment
	Division 1 — First 2020 economic support payment
67L First 2020 economic support payment
(1)	A person is eligible for a first 2020 economic support payment if Division 3 applies to the person on a day in the period:
(a)	starting on 12 March 2020; and
(b)	ending on 13 April 2020.
(2)	The amount of a person’s first 2020 economic support payment under this Division is $750.
67M More than one entitlement
(1)	A person may receive one payment only under this Division, regardless of how many times the person becomes eligible under section 67L.
(2)	If:
(a)	a first 2020 economic support payment under the ABSTUDY Scheme; or
(b)	a first 2020 economic support payment under Division 1 of Part 9 of the Family Assistance Act; or
(c)	a first 2020 economic support payment under Division 1 of Part 2.6B of the Social Security Act;
is paid to a person, no payment under this Division can be paid to the person.
67N Claim not required for first 2020 economic support payment
A claim is not required for a first 2020 economic support payment under this Division.
67P Payment of first 2020 economic support payment
(1)	If a person is eligible for a first 2020 economic support payment under this Division, the Commission must, subject to subsection (2), pay the payment to the person in a single lump sum:
(a)	on the date that the Commission considers to be the earliest date on which it is reasonably practicable for the payment to be paid; and
(b)	in such manner as the Commission considers appropriate.
(2)	The Commission must not pay the payment on or after 1 July 2022.
	Division 2 — Second 2020 economic support payment
67Q Second 2020 economic support payment
(1)	A person is eligible for a second 2020 economic support payment if:
(a)	Division 3 applies to the person on 10 July 2020; and
(b)	the person does not receive COVID-19 supplement under the Social Security Act in respect of 10 July 2020.
(2)	The amount of a person’s second 2020 economic support payment under this Division is $750.
67R More than one entitlement
(1)	A person may receive one payment only under this Division, regardless of how many times the person becomes eligible under section 67Q.
(2)	If:
(a)	a second 2020 economic support payment under the ABSTUDY Scheme; or
(b)	a second 2020 economic support payment under Division 2 of Part 9 of the Family Assistance Act; or
(c)	a second 2020 economic support payment under Division 2 of Part 2.6B of the Social Security Act;
is paid to a person, no payment under this Division can be paid to the person.
67S Claim not required for second 2020 economic support payment
A claim is not required for a second 2020 economic support payment under this Division.
67T Payment of second 2020 economic support payment
(1)	If a person is eligible for a second 2020 economic support payment under this Division, the Commission must, subject to subsection (2), pay the payment to the person in a single lump sum:
(a)	on the date, occurring on or after 10 July 2020, that the Commission considers to be the earliest date on which it is reasonably practicable for the payment to be paid; and
(b)	in such manner as the Commission considers appropriate.
(2)	The Commission must not pay the payment on or after 1 July 2023.
	Division 3 — Eligibility
67U Purpose of this Division
This Division applies for the purposes of subsection 67L(1) and paragraph 67Q(1)(a).
Note:	Sections 67V to 67ZA are subject to section 67ZB (residence requirement).
67V Payments under this Act
Service pension or income support supplement
(1)	This Division applies to a person on a day if service pension or income support supplement is payable to the person on that day.
(2)	For the purposes of subsection (1), and without limiting that subsection, service pension or income support supplement is taken to be payable to a person on a day (the test day) if:
(a)	service pension or income support supplement ceases to be payable to the person on a day (the cessation day) occurring on or before the test day; and
(b)	that cessation occurs because of employment income the person or the person’s partner earns, derives or receives (either alone or in combination with any other ordinary income earned, derived or received by the person or the person’s partner); and
(c)	were it not for the employment income, or the combined income, referred to in paragraph (b), the pension or supplement would be payable to the person throughout the period:
(i)	starting on the cessation day; and
(ii)	ending on the test day; and
(d)	the cessation day occurs no earlier than 12 weeks before the test day.
Disability pension or war widow’s/widower’s pension under Part II or IV
(3)	This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	the person receives for that day a pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to section 22, 23, 24, 25 or 27; and
(b)	the person’s rate of the pension is greater than nil for that day.
(4)	This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	the person receives for that day a pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to subsection 30(1); and
(b)	the person’s rate of the pension is greater than nil for that day.
(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4), a person is taken to receive a pension under Part II or IV at a rate greater than nil even if the person’s rate would be nil, or pension would not be payable, merely because the rate is reduced, or pension is not payable, under Division 4, 5 or 5A of Part II or section 74.
Veteran payment
(6)	This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	veteran payment is payable to the person on that day; and
(b)	veteran payment is so payable because of a claim made on or before that day.
67X Seniors health card, gold card etc.
Seniors health card
(1)	This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	the person makes a claim for a seniors health card under Division 2 of Part VIIC on or before that day; and
(b)	the person does not withdraw that claim on or before that day; and
(c)	the person is eligible for the card on that day.
(2)	This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	the person is the holder of a seniors health card on that day because of subsection 118XA(3); and
(b)	the person is eligible for the card on that day.
Gold card
(3)	This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	the person is, on that day, the holder of a card, known as the Repatriation Health Card—For All Conditions, that evidences the person’s eligibility under this Act or the MRCA to be provided with treatment for all injuries or diseases; and
(b)	the person is eligible for the card on that day.
(4)	This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	the person makes a claim, on or before that day, under:
(i)	section 8 of the Australian Participants in British Nuclear Tests and British Commonwealth Occupation Force (Treatment) Act 2006; or
(ii)	section 9 of the Treatment Benefits (Special Access) Act 2019;
for a determination that he or she is an eligible person; and
(b)	the person does not withdraw that claim on or before that day; and
(c)	the person is an eligible person (within the meaning of that Act) on that day.
Fringe benefits
(5)	This Division applies to a person on a day if the person is eligible for fringe benefits under subsection 53A(1A) of this Act on that day.
67Y MRCA
Compensation for permanent impairment
(1)	This Division applies to a person on a day if either or both of the following apply:
(a)	weekly compensation under Part 2 of Chapter 4 of the MRCA:
(i)	is payable to the person for that day; or
(ii)	would be payable to the person for that day apart from paragraph 398(3)(b) of the MRCA and offsetting described in subsection 13(4) of the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation (Consequential and Transitional Provisions) Act 2004;
(b)	the person receives lump sum compensation under Part 2 of Chapter 4 of the MRCA on or before that day.
Special Rate Disability Pension
(2)	This Division applies to a person on a day if Special Rate Disability Pension under the MRCA:
(a)	is payable to the person for that day; or
(b)	would be payable to the person for that day apart from section 204, and paragraph 398(3)(b), of the MRCA.
Compensation for wholly dependent partners
(3)	This Division applies to a person on a day if either or both of the following apply:
(a)	weekly compensation under Division 2 of Part 2 of Chapter 5 of the MRCA either:
(i)	is payable to the person for that day; or
(ii)	would be payable to the person for that day apart from paragraph 398(3)(b) of the MRCA;
(b)	both:
(i)	the person receives lump sum compensation under Division 2 of Part 2 of Chapter 5 of the MRCA on or before that day; and
(ii)	subsection 388(6) of the MRCA does not apply to the person before that day.
67Z Education scheme under MRCA
This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	a payment under the scheme determined under section 258 of the MRCA is payable to the person on that day; and
(b)	the payment is so payable because of a claim the person makes on or before that day; and
(c)	the person turns 16 on or before that day.
67ZA Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988
This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	at any time, the person receives a payment of compensation under section 24 of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988; and
(b)	the payment is paid because of a claim the person makes on or before that day.
67ZB Residence requirement
Despite sections 67V to 67ZA, this Division does not apply to a person on a day if the person does not reside in Australia on that day.
Part IIIJ—Additional economic support payments
	Division 1 — Additional economic support payment 2020
67ZC Additional economic support payment 2020
Eligibility
(1)	A person is eligible for an additional economic support payment 2020 if:
(a)	Division 3 applies to the person on 27 November 2020; and
(b)	the person does not receive a social security benefit in respect of 27 November 2020; and
(c)	the person does not receive a social security pension in respect of 27 November 2020; and
(d)	the person does not receive a payment under a prescribed educational scheme (within the meaning of the Social Security Act 1991) in respect of 27 November 2020; and
(e)	the person is residing in Australia on 27 November 2020.
Amount of payment
(2)	The amount of a person’s additional economic support payment 2020 under this Division is $250.
67ZD More than one entitlement
(1)	A person may receive one payment only under this Division, regardless of how many times the person becomes eligible under section 67ZC.
(2)	If:
(a)	an additional economic support payment 2020 under Division 1 of Part 10 of the Family Assistance Act; or
(b)	an additional economic support payment 2020 under Division 1 of Part 2.6C of the Social Security Act;
is paid to a person, no payment under this Division can be paid to the person.
67ZE Claim not required for additional economic support payment 2020
A claim is not required for an additional economic support payment 2020 under this Division.
67ZF Payment of additional economic support payment 2020
(1)	If a person is eligible for an additional economic support payment 2020 under this Division, the Commission must, subject to subsection (2), pay the payment to the person in a single lump sum:
(a)	on the date, occurring on or after 27 November 2020, that the Commission considers to be the earliest date on which it is reasonably practicable for the payment to be paid; and
(b)	in such manner as the Commission considers appropriate.
(2)	The Commission must not pay the payment on or after 1 July 2023.
	Division 2 — Additional economic support payment 2021
67ZG Additional economic support payment 2021
Eligibility
(1)	A person is eligible for an additional economic support payment 2021 if:
(a)	Division 3 applies to the person on 26 February 2021; and
(b)	the person does not receive a social security benefit in respect of 26 February 2021; and
(c)	the person does not receive a social security pension in respect of 26 February 2021; and
(d)	the person does not receive a payment under a prescribed educational scheme (within the meaning of the Social Security Act 1991) in respect of 26 February 2021; and
(e)	the person is residing in Australia on 26 February 2021.
Amount of payment
(2)	The amount of a person’s additional economic support payment 2021 under this Division is $250.
67ZH More than one entitlement
(1)	A person may receive one payment only under this Division, regardless of how many times the person becomes eligible under section 67ZG.
(2)	If:
(a)	an additional economic support payment 2021 under Division 2 of Part 10 of the Family Assistance Act; or
(b)	an additional economic support payment 2021 under Division 2 of Part 2.6C of the Social Security Act;
is paid to a person, no payment under this Division can be paid to the person.
67ZI Claim not required for additional economic support payment 2021
A claim is not required for an additional economic support payment 2021 under this Division.
67ZJ Payment of additional economic support payment 2021
(1)	If a person is eligible for an additional economic support payment 2021 under this Division, the Commission must, subject to subsection (2), pay the payment to the person in a single lump sum:
(a)	on the date, occurring on or after 26 February 2021, that the Commission considers to be the earliest date on which it is reasonably practicable for the payment to be paid; and
(b)	in such manner as the Commission considers appropriate.
(2)	The Commission must not pay the payment on or after 1 July 2023.
	Division 3 — Eligibility
67ZK Purpose of this Division
This Division applies for the purposes of paragraphs 67ZC(1)(a) and 67ZG(1)(a).
67ZL Payments under this Act
Service pension or income support supplement
(1)	This Division applies to a person on a day if service pension or income support supplement is payable to the person on that day.
(2)	For the purposes of subsection (1), and without limiting that subsection, service pension or income support supplement is taken to be payable to a person on a day (the test day) if:
(a)	service pension or income support supplement ceases to be payable to the person on a day (the cessation day) occurring on or before the test day; and
(b)	that cessation occurs because of employment income the person or the person’s partner earns, derives or receives (either alone or in combination with any other ordinary income earned, derived or received by the person or the person’s partner); and
(c)	were it not for the employment income, or the combined income, referred to in paragraph (b), the pension or supplement would be payable to the person throughout the period:
(i)	starting on the cessation day; and
(ii)	ending on the test day; and
(d)	the cessation day occurs no earlier than 12 weeks before the test day.
Disability pension or war widow’s/widower’s pension under Part II or IV
(3)	This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	the person receives for that day a pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to section 22, 23, 24, 25 or 27; and
(b)	the person’s rate of the pension is greater than nil for that day.
(4)	This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	the person receives for that day a pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to subsection 30(1); and
(b)	the person’s rate of the pension is greater than nil for that day.
(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4), a person is taken to receive a pension under Part II or IV at a rate greater than nil even if the person’s rate would be nil, or pension would not be payable, merely because the rate is reduced, or pension is not payable, under Division 4, 5 or 5A of Part II or section 74.
Veteran payment
(6)	This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	veteran payment is payable to the person on that day; and
(b)	veteran payment is so payable because of a claim made on or before that day.
67ZM Seniors health card, gold card etc.
Seniors health card
(1)	This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	the person makes a claim for a seniors health card under Division 2 of Part VIIC on or before that day; and
(b)	the person does not withdraw that claim on or before that day; and
(c)	the person is eligible for the card on that day.
(2)	This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	the person is the holder of a seniors health card on that day because of subsection 118XA(3); and
(b)	the person is eligible for the card on that day.
Gold card
(3)	This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	the person is, on that day, the holder of a card, known as the Repatriation Health Card—For All Conditions, that evidences the person’s eligibility under this Act or the MRCA to be provided with treatment for all injuries or diseases; and
(b)	the person is eligible for the card on that day.
(4)	This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	the person makes a claim, on or before that day, under:
(i)	section 8 of the Australian Participants in British Nuclear Tests and British Commonwealth Occupation Force (Treatment) Act 2006; or
(ii)	section 9 of the Treatment Benefits (Special Access) Act 2019;
for a determination that the person is an eligible person; and
(b)	the person does not withdraw that claim on or before that day; and
(c)	the person is an eligible person (within the meaning of that Act) on that day.
Fringe benefits
(5)	This Division applies to a person on a day if the person is eligible for fringe benefits under subsection 53A(1A) of this Act on that day.
67ZN MRCA
Compensation for permanent impairment
(1)	This Division applies to a person on a day if either or both of the following apply:
(a)	weekly compensation under Part 2 of Chapter 4 of the MRCA:
(i)	is payable to the person for that day; or
(ii)	would be payable to the person for that day apart from paragraph 398(3)(b) of the MRCA and offsetting described in subsection 13(4) of the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation (Consequential and Transitional Provisions) Act 2004;
(b)	the person receives lump sum compensation under Part 2 of Chapter 4 of the MRCA on or before that day.
Special Rate Disability Pension
(2)	This Division applies to a person on a day if Special Rate Disability Pension under the MRCA:
(a)	is payable to the person for that day; or
(b)	would be payable to the person for that day apart from section 204, and paragraph 398(3)(b), of the MRCA.
Compensation for wholly dependent partners
(3)	This Division applies to a person on a day if either or both of the following apply:
(a)	weekly compensation under Division 2 of Part 2 of Chapter 5 of the MRCA either:
(i)	is payable to the person for that day; or
(ii)	would be payable to the person for that day apart from paragraph 398(3)(b) of the MRCA;
(b)	both:
(i)	the person receives lump sum compensation under Division 2 of Part 2 of Chapter 5 of the MRCA on or before that day; and
(ii)	subsection 388(6) of the MRCA does not apply to the person before that day.
67ZO Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988
This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	at any time, the person receives a payment of compensation under section 24 of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988; and
(b)	the payment is paid because of a claim the person makes on or before that day.
Part IIIK—2022 cost of living payment
	Division 1 — 2022 cost of living payment
67ZP 2022 cost of living payment
(1)	A person is eligible for a 2022 cost of living payment if Division 2 applies to the person on 29 March 2022.
(2)	The amount of a person’s 2022 cost of living payment under this Division is $250.
67ZQ More than one entitlement
(1)	A person may receive one payment only under this Division, regardless of how many times the person becomes eligible under section 67ZP.
(2)	If:
(a)	a 2022 cost of living payment under the ABSTUDY Scheme; or
(b)	a 2022 cost of living payment under Division 1 of Part 2.6D of the Social Security Act;
is paid to a person, no payment under this Division can be paid to the person.
67ZR Claim not required for 2022 cost of living payment
A claim is not required for a 2022 cost of living payment under this Division.
67ZS Payment of 2022 cost of living payment
(1)	If a person is eligible for a 2022 cost of living payment under this Division, the Commission must, subject to subsection (2), pay the payment to the person in a single lump sum:
(a)	on the date, occurring on or after 29 March 2022, that the Commission considers to be the earliest date on which it is reasonably practicable for the payment to be paid; and
(b)	in such manner as the Commission considers appropriate.
(2)	The Commission must not pay the payment on or after 1 July 2023.
	Division 2 — Eligibility
67ZT Purpose of this Division
This Division applies for the purposes of subsection 67ZP(1).
Note:	Sections 67ZU to 67ZZ are subject to section 67ZZA (residence requirement).
67ZU Payments under this Act
Service pension or income support supplement
(1)	This Division applies to a person on a day if service pension or income support supplement is payable to the person on that day.
(2)	For the purposes of subsection (1), and without limiting that subsection, service pension or income support supplement is taken to be payable to a person on a day (the test day) if:
(a)	service pension or income support supplement ceases to be payable to the person on a day (the cessation day) occurring on or before the test day; and
(b)	that cessation occurs because of employment income the person or the person’s partner earns, derives or receives (either alone or in combination with any other ordinary income earned, derived or received by the person or the person’s partner); and
(c)	were it not for the employment income, or the combined income, referred to in paragraph (b), the pension or supplement would be payable to the person throughout the period:
(i)	starting on the cessation day; and
(ii)	ending on the test day; and
(d)	the cessation day occurs no earlier than 12 weeks before the test day.
Pensions by way of compensation under Part II or IV
(3)	This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	the person receives for that day a pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to section 22, 23, 24, 25 or 27; and
(b)	the person’s rate of the pension is greater than nil for that day.
(4)	This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	the person receives for that day a pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to subsection 30(1); and
(b)	the person’s rate of the pension is greater than nil for that day.
(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4), a person is taken to receive a pension under Part II or IV at a rate greater than nil even if the person’s rate would be nil, or pension would not be payable, merely because the rate is reduced, or pension is not payable, under Division 4, 5 or 5A of Part II or section 74.
Veteran payment
(6)	This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	veteran payment is payable to the person on that day; and
(b)	veteran payment is so payable because of a claim made on or before that day.
67ZW Seniors health card, gold card etc.
Seniors health card
(1)	This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	the person makes a claim for a seniors health card under Division 2 of Part VIIC on or before that day; and
(b)	the person does not withdraw that claim on or before that day; and
(c)	the person is eligible for the card on that day.
(2)	This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	the person is the holder of a seniors health card on that day because of subsection 118XA(3); and
(b)	the person is eligible for the card on that day.
Gold card
(3)	This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	the person is, on that day, the holder of a card, known as the Repatriation Health Card—For All Conditions, that evidences the person’s eligibility under this Act or the MRCA to be provided with treatment for all injuries or diseases; and
(b)	the person is eligible for the card on that day.
(4)	This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	the person makes a claim, on or before that day, under:
(i)	section 8 of the Australian Participants in British Nuclear Tests and British Commonwealth Occupation Force (Treatment) Act 2006; or
(ii)	section 9 of the Treatment Benefits (Special Access) Act 2019;
for a determination that the person is an eligible person; and
(b)	the person does not withdraw that claim on or before that day; and
(c)	the person is an eligible person (within the meaning of that Act) on that day.
Fringe benefits
(5)	This Division applies to a person on a day if the person is eligible for fringe benefits under subsection 53A(1A) of this Act on that day.
67ZX MRCA
Compensation for permanent impairment
(1)	This Division applies to a person on a day if either or both of the following apply:
(a)	weekly compensation under Part 2 of Chapter 4 of the MRCA:
(i)	is payable to the person for that day; or
(ii)	would be payable to the person for that day apart from paragraph 398(3)(b) of the MRCA and offsetting described in subsection 13(4) of the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation (Consequential and Transitional Provisions) Act 2004;
(b)	the person receives lump sum compensation under Part 2 of Chapter 4 of the MRCA on or before that day.
Special Rate Disability Pension
(2)	This Division applies to a person on a day if Special Rate Disability Pension under the MRCA:
(a)	is payable to the person for that day; or
(b)	would be payable to the person for that day apart from section 204, and paragraph 398(3)(b), of the MRCA.
Compensation for wholly dependent partners
(3)	This Division applies to a person on a day if either or both of the following apply:
(a)	weekly compensation under Division 2 of Part 2 of Chapter 5 of the MRCA either:
(i)	is payable to the person for that day; or
(ii)	would be payable to the person for that day apart from paragraph 398(3)(b) of the MRCA;
(b)	both:
(i)	the person receives lump sum compensation under Division 2 of Part 2 of Chapter 5 of the MRCA on or before that day; and
(ii)	subsection 388(6) of the MRCA does not apply to the person before that day.
67ZY Education scheme under MRCA
This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	a payment under the scheme determined under section 258 of the MRCA is payable to the person on that day; and
(b)	the payment is so payable because of a claim the person makes on or before that day; and
(c)	the person turns 16 on or before that day.
67ZZ Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988
This Division applies to a person on a day if:
(a)	at any time, the person receives a payment of compensation under section 24 of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988; and
(b)	the payment is paid because of a claim the person makes on or before that day.
67ZZA Residence requirement
Despite sections 67ZU to 67ZZ, this Division does not apply to a person on a day if the person does not reside in Australia on that day.
Part IV—Pensions by way of compensation to members of Defence Force or Peacekeeping Force and their dependants
	Division 1 — Interpretation
68 Interpretation
(1)	In this Part, unless the contrary intention appears:
Australian contingent, in relation to a Peacekeeping Force, means a contingent of that Force that has been authorized or approved by the Australian Government.
Australian member, in relation to a Peacekeeping Force, means a member of that Force whose membership has been authorized or approved by the Australian Government.
authorized travel, in relation to a member of a Peacekeeping Force, means travel authorized by the appropriate authority, being an authority approved by the Minister for the purpose.
British nuclear test defence service has the meaning given by subsections 69B(2), (3), (4) and (5).
defence service means service, except peacekeeping service, of any of the following kinds:
(a)	continuous full-time service rendered as a member of the Defence Force on or after 7 December 1972 and before the terminating date;
(b)	continuous full-time service that was rendered by a person who:
(i)	was rendering continuous full-time service as a member of the Defence Force immediately before the commencement of this Act; and
(ii)	continued to render continuous full-time service as such a member until and including the day immediately before the terminating date; and
(iii)	was, immediately before the terminating date, bound to render continuous full-time service as such a member for a term expiring on or after the terminating date;
and that was rendered by the person as a member of the Defence Force on and after the terminating date and before the earlier of the following:
(iv)	the expiration of that term or, if that term is deemed to have been extended by subsection (4), (5) or (6), the expiration of the extension of that term;
(v)	the lawful termination of the person’s service as a member of the Defence Force otherwise than by reason of the expiration of the term for which the person is bound to serve;
(c)	hazardous service rendered before or after the terminating date;
(d)	British nuclear test defence service.
effective full-time service, in relation to a member of the Defence Force, means any period of continuous full-time service of the member other than:
(a)	a period exceeding 21 consecutive days during which the member was:
(i)	on leave of absence without pay;
(ii)	absent without leave;
(iii)	awaiting or undergoing trial in respect of an offence of which the member was later convicted; or
(iv)	undergoing detention or imprisonment; or
(b)	in the case of an officer of the Defence Force who, on appointment, was a student enrolled in a degree or diploma course at a university or other tertiary educational institution and was required by the appropriate authority of the Defence Force to continue his or her studies after appointment—the period of the officer’s service during which, by reason of the requirement to engage in those studies or in activities connected with those studies, the officer was not regarded by the appropriate authority of the Defence Force as rendering effective full-time service.
hazardous service has the same meaning as in subsection 120(7).
member of a Peacekeeping Force means a person who is serving, or has served, with a Peacekeeping Force outside Australia as an Australian member, or as a member of the Australian contingent, of that Peacekeeping Force.
member of the Forces means a person to whom this Part applies by virtue of section 69, 69A or 69B.
Peacekeeping Force means:
(a)	a Peacekeeping Force described in an item of Schedule 3; or
(b)	a force raised or organised for the purpose of:
(i)	peacekeeping in an area outside Australia; or
(ii)	observing or monitoring any activities of persons in an area outside Australia that may lead to an outbreak of hostilities;
being a force that is designated by the Minister, by notice published in the Gazette, as a Peacekeeping Force for the purposes of this Part.
peacekeeping service, in relation to a person, means service, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, with a Peacekeeping Force outside Australia, and includes:
(a)	any period after the person’s appointment or allocation to the Peacekeeping Force during which the person was travelling outside Australia for the purpose of joining the Peacekeeping Force; and
(b)	any period (not exceeding 28 days) of authorized travel by the person outside Australia after the person has ceased to serve with the Peacekeeping Force.
terminating date means the date on which the Military Compensation Act 1994 commences.
Note:	The Military Compensation Act 1994 commenced on 7 April 1994.
(2)	For the purposes of the definition of peacekeeping service in subsection (1):
(a)	a person who has travelled from a place in Australia to a place outside Australia shall be deemed to have commenced to travel outside Australia when the person departed from the last port of call in Australia; and
(b)	a person who has travelled to Australia from a place outside Australia shall be deemed to have been travelling outside Australia until the person arrived at the first port of call in Australia.
(3)	The Peacekeeping Force described in an item of Schedule 3 is taken to have become a Peacekeeping Force for the purposes of this Part on the day specified in column 3 of that item.
(3A)	A force designated by notice published in the Gazette, in accordance with paragraph (b) of the definition of Peacekeeping Force in subsection 68(1), as a Peacekeeping Force is taken to have become a Peacekeeping Force for the purposes of this Part on the date specified in the notice as the date on which it is to become, or is taken to have become, a Peacekeeping Force for the purposes of this Part.
(4)	For the purposes of the definition of defence service in subsection (1), where:
(a)	immediately before the terminating date, a person was bound to render continuous full-time service as a member of the Defence Force for a term (in this subsection referred to as the relevant term) expiring on or after the terminating date; and
(b)	on or before the expiration of the relevant term, or of an extension of the relevant term by virtue of a previous application of this subsection, the person becomes bound to serve as a member of the Defence Force for a further term commencing immediately after the expiration of the relevant term, or of the extension of the relevant term, as the case may be;
the relevant term shall be deemed to be extended, or further extended, as the case may be, until the expiration of that further term.
(5)	Where a person who, immediately before the terminating date, was bound to render continuous full-time service as a member of the Defence Force for a term expiring on or after the terminating date is, before the expiration of that term or of an extension of that term by virtue of subsection (4), discharged from the Defence Force for the purpose of being appointed an officer:
(a)	that discharge shall not be taken to be the lawful termination of the person’s services as a member of the Defence Force for the purposes of the definition of defence service in subsection (1); and
(b)	the relevant term, within the meaning of subsection (4), in respect of the person shall be deemed to be extended until the expiration of the period of continuous full-time service that the person is bound to render by reason of his or her appointment as an officer.
(6)	Where:
(a)	immediately before the terminating date, a person was bound to render continuous full-time service as a member of the Defence Force for a term (in this subsection referred to as the relevant term) expiring on or after the terminating date; and
(b)	on or before the expiration of the relevant term, or of an extension of the relevant term by virtue of a previous application of subsection (4) or (5), the person is discharged from the Army for the purpose of being appointed an officer of the Army, being an appointment that is not expressed to be for a specified period of service in a specified part of the Army or for such a period of service followed by a specified period of service in another part of the Army;
that discharge shall not be taken to be the lawful termination of the person’s services as a member of the Defence Force for the purpose of the definition of defence service in subsection (1) and the relevant term in respect of the person shall be deemed to be extended or further extended, as the case requires, until the lawful termination of that person’s service in pursuance of that appointment.
(7)	Subsections (4), (5) and (6) do not apply to a person who was bound to render continuous full-time service as a member of the Defence Force immediately before the terminating date unless the person:
(a)	was so rendering continuous full-time service immediately before the commencement of this Act; and
(b)	continued so to render continuous full-time service until and including the day immediately before the terminating date.
69 Application of Part to members of the Forces
(1)	Subject to this section, where a person:
(a)	has served in the Defence Force for a continuous period that commenced on or after 7 December 1972 and before the terminating date; or
(b)	is serving in the Defence Force on or after the terminating date and has so served continuously since a date before that date;
this Part applies to the person:
(c)	if the person:
(i)	has served on continuous full-time service as a member of the Defence Force after 6 December 1972; and
(ii)	has, whether before or after that date, completed 3 years’ effective full-time service as such a member; or
(d)	if:
(i)	the person has served as a member of the Defence Force under an engagement to serve for a period of continuous full-time service of not less than 3 years; and
(ii)	the person’s service as such a member was terminated before the person had completed 3 years’ effective full-time service as a member of the Defence Force, but after 6 December 1972, by reason of the person’s death or the person’s discharge on the ground of invalidity or physical or mental incapacity to perform duties; or
(e)	if:
(i)	the person has served as an officer of the Defence Force otherwise than under an appointment to serve for a period of continuous full-time service of less than 3 years; and
(ii)	the person’s service as such an officer was terminated before the person had completed 3 years’ effective full-time service as a member of the Defence Force, but after 6 December 1972, by reason of the person’s death or the termination of the person’s appointment on the ground of invalidity or physical or mental incapacity to perform duties; or
(f)	if the person:
(i)	was, immediately before 7 December 1972, a national serviceman or a national service officer, for the purposes of the National Service Act 1951, serving in the Regular Army Supplement; and
(ii)	on or after that date:
(A)	completed the period of service in the Regular Army Supplement for which the person was to be deemed to have been engaged to serve or for which the person was appointed, as the case may be; or
(B)	the person’s service in the Regular Army Supplement was terminated by reason of the person’s death, or of the person’s discharge or the termination of the person’s appointment, on the ground of invalidity or physical or mental incapacity to perform duties.
(2)	Where:
(a)	a person has served in the Defence Force as set out in subsection (1); and
(b)	after, but not immediately after, the termination of the period of service referred to in that subsection, the person commenced or commences to render a further period of service in the Defence Force;
the person is not a person to whom this Part applies in respect of that further period of service unless, under subsection (1), this Part would apply to the person by reason only of his or her having rendered that further period of service.
(3)	Where a person renders continuous full-time service as a member of the Defence Force at some time after the commencement of this Act and before the terminating date but has not so rendered continuous full-time service continuously from and including the day immediately before the date of commencement of this Act to that time, subsection (1) does not apply in respect of the person unless:
(a)	the person completes 3 years’ effective full-time service as such a member before the terminating date; or
(b)	the person’s service as a member or officer of the Defence Force is terminated as provided by paragraph (1)(d) or (e), whichever is applicable, before the terminating date.
(4)	For the purposes of paragraph (1)(c):
(a)	the service of a person as an officer of the Navy on the General List while the person was undertaking pre-employment training shall be disregarded unless the person has subsequently been promoted to the rank of sub-lieutenant or a higher rank;
(b)	the service of a person:
(i)	as an enlisted member of the Corps of Staff Cadets of the Army; or
(ii)	as an officer cadet of the Army while undertaking a four-year course of training;
shall be disregarded unless the person has subsequently been appointed or promoted to the rank of second lieutenant or a higher rank; and
(c)	the service of a person as an Air Cadet, or as an Officer Cadet of the Air Force, shall be disregarded unless the person has subsequently been appointed or promoted to the rank of pilot officer or a higher rank.
(5)	Paragraph (1)(d) or (e) does not apply in respect of a person if the person’s service as a member of the Defence Force was terminated by reason of the person’s discharge, or the termination of the person’s appointment:
(a)	before the person had completed 12 months’ effective full-time service; and
(b)	on the ground of invalidity or physical or mental incapacity to perform duties, being invalidity or incapacity caused, or substantially contributed to, by a physical or mental condition that:
(i)	existed at the time the person commenced continuous full-time service as a member of the Defence Force; and
(ii)	had not been aggravated, or materially aggravated, by that service.
(6)	Paragraph (1)(e) does not apply in respect of a person if the person’s service as a member of the Defence Force was terminated by reason of the person’s death, or the termination of the person’s appointment, during a period of service of the person of a kind referred to in paragraph (b) of the definition of effective full-time service in subsection 68(1).
(7)	Where a member of the Defence Force who has rendered continuous full-time service in pursuance of a voluntary undertaking given by the member and accepted by the appropriate authority of the Defence Force was not serving on continuous full-time service immediately before the member commenced to render that service:
(a)	if the member was an officer on the day on which the member so commenced—the member shall be deemed, for the purposes of paragraph (1)(e), to have been appointed as an officer of the Defence Force on that day for service for the period for which the member was bound to serve on continuous full-time service by virtue of that undertaking; or
(b)	in any other case—the member shall be deemed, for the purpose of paragraph (1)(d), to have been engaged to serve as a member of the Defence Force on that day for service for the period for which the member was bound to serve on continuous full-time service by virtue of that undertaking.
69A Application of Part to members of the Forces who render hazardous service
(1)	This Part applies to a person who has rendered or is rendering hazardous service as a member of the Defence Force.
(2)	This Part so applies whether the hazardous service is rendered before or after the terminating date.
69B Application of Part to persons who rendered British nuclear test defence service
(1)	This Part applies to a person who has rendered British nuclear test defence service.
(2)	A person rendered British nuclear test defence service while the person was a member of the Defence Force and rendered service in an area described in the table at any time during a period described in the table for that area:
British nuclear test defence service in an area within a period
Item
Area
Period
1
The area within 10 kilometres of Main Beach on Trimouille Island in the Monte Bello Archipelago
The period:
(a) starting at the start of 3 October 1952; and
(b) ending at the end of 19 June 1958
2
The area within 25 kilometres of the Totem test sites at Emu Field
The period:
(a) starting at the start of 15 October 1953; and
(b) ending at the end of 25 October 1955
3
The area within 40 kilometres of any of the Buffalo or Antler test sites near Maralinga
The period:
(a) starting at the start of 27 September 1956; and
(b) ending at the end of 30 April 1965
(3)	A person rendered British nuclear test defence service while the person was a member of the Defence Force and was involved at any time during a period described in the table in the transport, recovery, maintenance or cleaning of a vessel, vehicle, aircraft or equipment that was contaminated as a result of its use in an area described in the table for that period:
British nuclear test defence service relating to work on contaminated things
Item
Period in which involvement occurred
Area where thing was contaminated
1
The period:
(a) starting at the start of 3 October 1952; and
(b) ending at the end of 19 July 1956
The area within 10 kilometres of Main Beach on Trimouille Island in the Monte Bello Archipelago
2
The period:
(a) starting at the start of 15 October 1953; and
(b) ending at the end of 25 November 1953
The area within 25 kilometres of the Totem test sites at Emu Field
3
The period:
(a) starting at the start of 27 September 1956; and
(b) ending at the end of 30 May 1963
The area within 40 kilometres of any of the Buffalo or Antler test sites near Maralinga
(4)	A person rendered British nuclear test defence service while the person was a member of the Defence Force and, at a time between the start of 3 October 1952 and the end of 31 October 1957, flew in an aircraft of the Royal Australian Air Force or the Royal Air Force that was at that time:
(a)	used in measuring fallout from nuclear tests conducted in an area described in the table in subsection (2); and
(b)	contaminated by the fallout.
(5)	A person rendered British nuclear test defence service while the person was a member of the Defence Force if the person satisfies the requirements specified in an instrument under subsection (6).
(6)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, specify requirements for the purposes of subsection (5).
	Division 2 — Eligibility for pensions by way of compensation to members of Defence Force or Peacekeeping Force and their dependants
70 Eligibility for pensions by way of compensation to members of Defence Force or Peacekeeping Force and their dependants
(1)	Where:
(a)	the death of a member of the Forces or member of a Peacekeeping Force was defence-caused; or
(b)	a member of the Forces or member of a Peacekeeping Force is incapacitated from a defence-caused injury or a defence-caused disease;
the Commonwealth is, subject to this Act, liable to pay:
(c)	in the case of the death of the member—pension by way of compensation to the dependants of the member; or
(d)	in the case of the incapacity of the member—pension by way of compensation to the member;
in accordance with this Act.
(2)	Where:
(a)	a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force has died;
(b)	the death of the member was not defence-caused; and
(c)	the member was, immediately before the member’s death:
(i)	a member to whom subsection 22(4) or section 23, 24 or 25 applied by virtue of section 73; or
(ii)	a member to whom section 22 so applied who was in receipt of a pension the rate of which had been increased by reason that the pension was in respect of an incapacity described in item 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 of the table in section 27;
the Commonwealth is, subject to this Act, liable to pay pensions by way of compensation to the dependants of the member.
(3)	Where a pension in respect of the incapacity of a member of the Forces or of a member of a Peacekeeping Force from defence-caused injury or defence-caused disease, or both, is granted, after the death of the member, as from a date before the death of the member, subsection (2) applies as if the member had been in receipt of that pension immediately before the member died.
(4)	For the purposes of this Act, the death of a member of a Peacekeeping Force shall be taken to have been defence-caused, an injury suffered by such a member shall be taken to be a defence-caused injury or a disease contracted by such a member shall be taken to be a defence-caused disease if the death, injury or disease, as the case may be, resulted from an occurrence that happened while the member was rendering peacekeeping service.
Note:	After the MRCA commencement date, compensation is provided under the MRCA (instead of this Act) for some new defence-caused injuries, diseases and deaths: see section 70A.
(5)	For the purposes of this Act, the death of a member of the Forces (other than a member to whom this Part applies solely because of section 69A) or member of a Peacekeeping Force shall be taken to have been defence-caused, an injury suffered by such a member shall be taken to be a defence-caused injury or a disease contracted by such a member shall be taken to be a defence-caused disease if:
(a)	the death, injury or disease, as the case may be, arose out of, or was attributable to, any defence service, or peacekeeping service, as the case may be, of the member;
(b)	subject to subsection (8), the death, injury or disease, as the case may be, resulted from an accident that occurred while the member was travelling, during any defence service or peacekeeping service of the member but otherwise than in the course of duty, on a journey to a place for the purpose of performing duty or away from a place upon having ceased to perform duty; or
(c)	the death is to be deemed by subsection (6) to be defence-caused, the injury is to be deemed by subsection (7) to be a defence-caused injury or the disease is to be deemed by subsection (7) to be a defence-caused disease, as the case may be; or
(d)	the injury or disease from which the member died, or is incapacitated:
(i)	was suffered or contracted during any defence service or peacekeeping service of the member, but did not arise out of that service; or
(ii)	was suffered or contracted before the commencement of the period, or the last period, of defence service or peacekeeping service of the member, but not during such a period of service;
and, in the opinion of the Commission, the injury or disease was contributed to in a material degree by, or was aggravated by, any defence service or peacekeeping service rendered by the member, being service rendered after the member suffered that injury or contracted that disease; or
(e)	the injury or disease from which the member died is an injury or disease that has been determined in accordance with this section other than this paragraph to have been a defence-caused injury or defence-caused disease, as the case may be;
Note:	The effect of paragraph (e) is that, if the member has died from an injury or disease that has already been determined by the Commission to be defence-caused, the death is to be taken to have been defence-caused. Accordingly the Commission is not required to relate the death to defence service or peacekeeping service rendered by the member and sections 120A and 120B do not apply.
but not otherwise.
Note:	After the MRCA commencement date, compensation is provided under the MRCA (instead of this Act) for some new defence-caused injuries, diseases and deaths: see section 70A.
(5A)	If this Part applies to a member of the Forces solely because the member has rendered hazardous service as specified in section 69A, the death of the member is taken to be defence-caused, an injury suffered by such a member is taken to be a defence-caused injury or a disease contracted by such a member is taken to be a defence-caused disease if:
(a)	the death, injury or disease, as the case may be, arose out of, or was attributable to, the hazardous service of the member; or
(b)	subject to subsection (8), the death, injury or disease, as the case may be, resulted from an accident that occurred while the member was travelling, during any hazardous service but otherwise than in the course of duty, on a journey to a place for the purpose of performing duty or away from a place upon having ceased to perform duty; or
(c)	the death is to be deemed by subsection (6) to be defence-caused, the injury is to be deemed by subsection (7) to be a defence-caused injury or the disease is to be deemed by subsection (7) to be a defence-caused disease, as the case may be; or
(d)	the injury or disease from which the member died or is incapacitated:
(i)	was suffered or contracted during any hazardous service of the member but did not arise out of that service; or
(ii)	was suffered or contracted before the commencement of the hazardous service of the member but not during such a period of service;
and, in the opinion of the Commission, the injury or disease was contributed to in a material degree by, or was aggravated by, the hazardous service rendered by the member, being service rendered after the member suffered that injury or contracted that disease; or
(e)	the injury or disease from which the member died is an injury or disease that has been determined in accordance with this section other than this paragraph to have been a defence-caused injury or defence-caused disease, as the case may be;
Note:	The effect of paragraph (e) is that, if the member has died from an injury or disease that has already been determined by the Commission to be defence-caused, the death is to be taken to have been defence-caused. Accordingly the Commission is not required to relate the death to hazardous service rendered by the member and section 120A does not apply.
but not otherwise.
Note:	After the MRCA commencement date, compensation is provided under the MRCA (instead of this Act) for some new defence-caused injuries, diseases and deaths: see section 70A.
(5B)	If this Part applies to a member of the Forces solely because the member has rendered hazardous service as specified in section 69A, subsections (6) and (7) apply to the person as if references in those subsections to defence service or peacekeeping service, as the case may be were references to hazardous service.
(6)	Where, in the opinion of the Commission, the death of a member of the Forces or member of a Peacekeeping Force was due to an accident that would not have occurred, or to a disease that would not have been contracted, but for his or her having rendered defence service or peacekeeping service, as the case may be, or but for changes in the member’s environment consequent upon his or her having rendered any such service:
(a)	the death of the member shall be deemed to have resulted from that defence service or peacekeeping service, as the case may be; and
(b)	the death of the member shall be deemed to be defence-caused, for the purposes of this Act.
(7)	Where, in the opinion of the Commission, the incapacity of a member of the Forces or member of a Peacekeeping Force was due to an accident that would not have occurred, or to a disease that would not have been contracted, but for his or her having rendered defence service or peacekeeping service, as the case may be, or but for changes in the member’s environment consequent upon his or her having rendered any such service:
(a)	if the incapacity of the member was due to an accident—that incapacity shall be deemed to have arisen out of the injury suffered by the member as a result of the accident and the injury so suffered shall be deemed to be a defence-caused injury suffered by the member; or
(b)	if the incapacity was due to a disease—the incapacity shall be deemed to have arisen out of that disease and that disease shall be deemed to be a defence-caused disease contracted by the member, for the purposes of this Act.
(8)	Neither paragraph (5)(b) nor (5A)(b) applies:
(a)	to an accident that occurred while the member of the Forces or member of a Peacekeeping Force was travelling on a journey from the member’s place of duty in a case where the member had delayed commencing the journey for a substantial period after he or she ceased to perform duty at that place (otherwise than for a reason connected with the performance of the member’s duties) unless, in the circumstances of the particular case, the nature of the risk of sustaining an injury, or contracting a disease, was not substantially changed, and the extent of that risk was not substantially increased, by that delay or by anything that happened during that delay;
(b)	to an accident that occurred while the member of the Forces or member of a Peacekeeping Force was travelling on a journey, or a part of a journey, by a route that was not reasonably direct having regard to the means of transport used unless:
(i)	the journey, or that part of the journey, was made by that route for a reason connected with the performance of the member’s duty; or
(ii)	in the circumstances of the particular case, the nature of the risk of sustaining injury, or contracting disease, was not substantially changed, and the extent of that risk was not substantially increased, by reason that the journey, or that part of the journey, was made by that route; or
(c)	to an accident that occurred while the member of the Forces or member of a Peacekeeping Force was travelling on a part of a journey made after a substantial interruption of the journey, being an interruption made for a reason unconnected with the performance of the member’s duties, unless, in the circumstances of the particular case, the nature of the risk referred to in subparagraph (b)(ii) was not substantially changed and the extent of that risk was not substantially increased, by reason of the interruption.
(9)	The Commonwealth is not liable under this section in respect of the death of a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, or the incapacity of such a member, from injury or disease:
(a)	in a case where the death occurred, or the injury was suffered, or disease was contracted, by the member in circumstances described in subsection (4) or in paragraph (5)(a), (b) or (c) or in paragraph (5A)(a), (b) or (c)—if the death, or the injury or disease, as the case may be:
(i)	resulted from the member’s serious default or wilful act; or
(ii)	arose from a serious breach of discipline committed by the member or from an occurrence that happened while the member was committing a serious breach of discipline; or
(b)	in the case of an injury suffered, or disease contracted, by the member to which paragraph (5)(d) or (5A)(d) applies:
(i)	if the aggravation of the injury or disease:
(A)	resulted from the member’s serious default or wilful act; or
(B)	arose from a serious breach of discipline by the member; or
(ii)	unless the member has rendered hazardous service or the period of defence service or peacekeeping service that contributed to the injury or disease in a material degree, or by which the injury or disease was aggravated, was 6 months or longer.
(9A)	The Commonwealth is not liable under this section in respect of:
(a)	the death; or
(b)	the incapacity from injury or disease;
of a member of the Forces, or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, if the death, injury or disease is related to the relevant service of the member only because:
(a)	in the case of a member who had not used tobacco products before 1 January 1998—the member used tobacco products after 31 December 1997; or
(b)	in the case of a member who had used tobacco products before 1 January 1998—the member increased his or her use of tobacco products after 31 December 1997.
(10)	The Commonwealth is not liable under this section in respect of the death of a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, or the incapacity of such a member, from injury or disease, if the death or incapacity resulted from the serious default or wilful act of the member that happened after the member ceased, or last ceased, to render defence service or peacekeeping service.
(10A)	The Commonwealth is not liable to pay a pension to a dependant of a member of the Forces, or of a member of a Peacekeeping Force, being a child of the member, under subsection (1) or (2) if the dependant has attained the age of 16 years and payments, by way of a living allowance, are being made in respect of the child:
(a)	by way of youth allowance; or
(b)	under the scheme known as the Assistance for Isolated Children Scheme;
(c)	under the scheme known as the Aboriginal Secondary Assistance Scheme or the scheme known as the Aboriginal Study Assistance Scheme;
(d)	under the scheme known as the Post-Graduate Awards Scheme; or
(e)	under the scheme determined under section 258 of the MRCA (education scheme for certain eligible young persons and other children).
(10AB)	The Commonwealth is liable to pay a pension to a reinstated pensioner.
(11)	Where a dependant of a deceased member of the Forces or of a deceased member of a Peacekeeping Force (not being a reinstated pensioner or a child of the member) re-marries, marries or enters into a de facto relationship after the death of the member:
(a)	the Commonwealth is not liable to pay a pension to the dependant under this section unless the decision by the Commission, the Board, the Administrative Review Tribunal or the former Administrative Appeals Tribunal, as the case may be, to grant the pension:
(i)	was made before the commencement of this Act; or
(ii)	was or is made after the commencement of this Act upon consideration or re-consideration of a claim for that pension that was duly made (whether before or after the commencement of this Act) before the re-marriage, marriage or entry into the de facto relationship occurred; and
(b)	a decision granting a pension to the dependant under this section made by the Commission, the Board, the Administrative Review Tribunal or the former Administrative Appeals Tribunal after that re-marriage, marriage or entry into the de facto relationship occurred (including a decision granting such a pension as from a date before that re-marriage, marriage or entry into the de facto relationship occurred) is void and of no effect unless the decision was made upon consideration or re-consideration of a claim for that pension made as described in subparagraph (a)(ii).
Note:	For the meaning of reinstated pensioner see section 11AA.
(11A)	If:
(a)	a male dependant of a deceased member of the Forces or of a deceased member of a Peacekeeping Force (not being a child of the member) has re-married or married after the death of the member; and
(b)	the re-marriage or marriage occurred before 22 January 1991;
the Commonwealth is not liable to pay a pension to that dependant under this section.
(12)	Where a person is in receipt of, or is eligible to receive, a pension under this Part as the widow or widower of a deceased member of the Forces or member of a Peacekeeping Force, the Commonwealth is not liable to pay another pension to the person under this Part as the widow or widower of another deceased member of the Forces or member of a Peacekeeping Force or under Part II as the widow or widower of a deceased veteran.
(13)	Where a person who is in receipt of, or is eligible to receive, a pension under this Part as the child of a deceased person, being a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, would, but for this subsection, become eligible to receive a pension under this Part or Part II as the child of another deceased person, being a member of the Forces, a member of a Peacekeeping Force or a veteran, the Commonwealth is liable to pay a pension to the person under this Part or Part II as the child of only one of those deceased persons, and, if the rate at which that pension would be payable as the child of one of those deceased persons (in this subsection referred to as the relevant deceased person) is higher than the rate at which that pension would be payable as the child of the other of those deceased persons, then:
(a)	if the relevant deceased person is a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force—the Commonwealth is liable to pay a pension to the person under this Part as the child of the relevant deceased person; or
(b)	in any other case—the Commonwealth is not liable to pay a pension to the person under this Part.
70A Most defence-caused injuries, diseases and deaths of members of the Defence Force no longer covered by this Act
(1)	An injury, disease or death of a member of the Forces, or any other member or former member of the Defence Force, is taken not to be defence-caused if:
(a)	the injury is sustained, the disease is contracted, or the death occurs, on or after the MRCA commencement date; and
(b)	the injury, disease or death either:
(i)	relates to service rendered by the member on or after that date; or
(ii)	relates to service rendered by the member before, and on or after, that date.
Note 1:	After the MRCA commencement date, compensation is provided under the MRCA (instead of this Act) for such injuries, diseases and deaths.
Note 2:	The other members (or former members) of the Defence Force mentioned in subsection (1) are or were also members of a Peacekeeping Force.
(3)	To avoid doubt, service is rendered before, and on or after, the MRCA commencement date whether the service spans the commencement date or is rendered during separate periods before and on or after that date.
71 Application of certain provisions of Part II
(1)	Divisions 2A, 3, 6 and 7 of Part II apply to and in relation to pensions payable in accordance with this Part in like manner as they apply to and in relation to pensions payable in accordance with Part II.
(2)	For the purposes of the application of Divisions 2A, 3, 6 and 7 of Part II as provided in subsection (1):
(a)	a reference in those divisions to a pension shall be read as a reference to a pension payable in accordance with this Part;
(b)	a reference in those divisions to the death of a veteran that was war-caused shall be read as a reference to the death of a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force that was defence-caused;
(c)	a reference in those divisions to a war-caused injury shall be read as a reference to a defence-caused injury;
(d)	a reference in those divisions to a war-caused disease shall be read as a reference to a defence-caused disease; and
(e)	a reference in those divisions to a veteran shall be read as a reference to a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force.
(3)	In the application of Division 3 of Part II in accordance with subsections (1) and (2) of this section, section 19 shall be read as if the following subsection were substituted for subsection (7) of that section:
“(7)	Where:
(a)	the Commission, upon considering a claim for a pension in respect of the incapacity of a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force from injury or disease determines, or is satisfied, that the member suffered the injury or contracted the disease as claimed and that the injury is a defence-caused injury or the disease is a defence-caused disease, as the case may be; and
(b)	the Commission is also satisfied that a determination under this Act is in force determining that the member has suffered an injury or contracted a disease (not being the injury or disease referred to in paragraph (a)) and that:
(i)	that injury is a defence-caused injury, or is a war-caused injury for the purposes of Part II; or
(ii)	that disease is a defence-caused disease, or is a war-caused disease for the purposes of Part II;
as the case may be, whether or not a pension under Part IV or Part II, as the case requires, has been granted in respect of that injury or disease;
the Commission shall not, in a case where the claimant is in receipt of a pension under Part IV or Part II in respect of incapacity resulting from the injury or disease referred to in paragraph (b), grant a separate and additional pension to the claimant in respect of incapacity resulting from the injury or disease referred to in paragraph (a), but the Commission shall, having regard to any incapacity resulting from the injury or disease referred to in paragraph (a) and any incapacity resulting from the injury or disease referred to in paragraph (b) and treating any such war-caused injury as defence-caused injury and any such war-caused disease as defence-caused disease:
(c)	if the claimant is not in receipt of a pension under Part IV or Part II—determine whether the claimant is entitled to be granted a pension under Part IV and, if it determines that the claimant is entitled to be granted a pension, assess the rate of the pension to be granted to the claimant; or
(d)	if the claimant is in receipt of a pension under Part IV or Part II—re-assess the rate of that pension.”.
(4)	Notwithstanding anything in Divisions 2A, 3, 6 and 7 of Part II in their application in accordance with this section, where:
(a)	a member of the Forces, or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, has, or has had, both defence service and peacekeeping service; and
(b)	the Commission has determined that the death or incapacity of the member had or has reference to the member’s defence service and also to the member’s peacekeeping service;
the Commission shall not grant a pension under this Part in respect of the death or incapacity in so far as it had or has reference to the member’s defence service and a separate pension under this Part in respect of the death or incapacity of the member in so far as it had or has reference to the member’s peacekeeping service, but shall:
(c)	in the case of the death of the member—assess the rate of any pension granted under this Part in respect of the death as if the member’s peacekeeping service formed part of the member’s defence service; or
(d)	in the case of the incapacity of the member—assess the degree of incapacity of the member and the rate of pension (if any) to be granted in respect of the incapacity of the member as if the member’s peacekeeping service formed part of the member’s defence service.
72 Dual entitlement to pension
(1)	Where a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force is also a veteran, the member is not entitled to receive, at the same time:
(a)	a pension under this Part; and
(b)	a pension under Part II of this Act;
in respect of his or her incapacity from the same injury or disease.
(2)	Where a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force is also a veteran, a dependant of the member is not entitled to receive, at the same time:
(a)	a pension under this Part; and
(b)	a pension under Part II of this Act;
in respect of the death of the member.
	Division 3 — Rates of pension
73 Application of Divisions 4 and 5 of Part II
(1)	The provisions of Divisions 4 and 5 of Part II apply to and in relation to pensions payable in accordance with this Part in like manner as those provisions apply in relation to pensions payable in accordance with Part II.
(2)	For the purposes of the application of the provisions of Divisions 4 and 5 of Part II as provided in subsection (1):
(a)	a reference in those provisions to a war-caused injury shall be read as a reference to a defence-caused injury;
(b)	a reference in those provisions to a war-caused disease shall be read as a reference to a defence-caused disease;
(c)	a reference in those provisions to a veteran shall be read as a reference to a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force; and
(d)	a reference in those provisions to Part II shall be read as a reference to Part IV.
	Division 4 — Pension and other compensation
73A This Division does not apply to certain payments
This Division does not apply to:
(a)	an additional death benefit, or a severe injury adjustment, paid on or after 10 June 1997 in relation to a member of the Forces, or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, under a determination made under section 58B of the Defence Act 1903; or
(b)	an act of grace payment made on or after 10 June 1997 in respect of the death or injury of a member of the Forces, or a member of a Peacekeeping Force where:
(i)	the death or injury occurred on or after 7 April 1994 and before 10 June 1997; and
(ii)	an additional death benefit, or a severe injury adjustment, would have been payable in relation to the member under a determination referred to in paragraph (a) if the death or injury had occurred on or after 10 June 1997.
74 Payments by way of compensation or damages
(1)	In this section, compensation includes:
(a)	any payment in the nature of compensation; and
(b)	any damages recoverable at law (including any amount paid under a compromise or settlement of a claim for damages at law), whether from the Commonwealth, a State, a Territory or any other person (whether within or outside Australia), in respect of injury to, or the death of, a person;
but does not include any amount that represents expenses incurred in medical or hospital treatment.
(2)	This section applies in relation to a member of the Forces, or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, in respect of the death of the member, or the incapacity of the member if:
(a)	a person is entitled, or 2 or more persons are each entitled, to receive payments by way of compensation in respect of the death of the member or of the incapacity of the member from an injury or disease; and
(b)	subject to this section, pension under this Part is being paid or is payable to a person, or to each of 2 or more persons, in respect of the death of the member or to the member in respect of the same incapacity of the member from that or any other injury or disease.
(3)	For the purposes of this section, where:
(a)	a lump sum payment by way of compensation (other than a lump sum payment mentioned in paragraph (3A)(a) or (3B)(a)) is made:
(i)	to a person, being a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, in respect of the incapacity of the member from injury or disease; or
(ii)	to a person, being a dependant of a member of the Forces or of a member of a Peacekeeping Force, in respect of the death of the member; and
(b)	that person is in receipt of, or is subsequently granted, a pension under this Part in respect of the same incapacity of the member from that or any other injury or disease or in respect of the death of that member, as the case may be;
that person shall be deemed, by reason of that payment by way of compensation, to have been, or to be, in receipt of payments, by way of compensation, on and after:
(c)	the date of commencement of the period in respect of which his or her pension is, or becomes, payable; or
(d)	the date on which the lump sum payment is made;
whichever is the earlier date, for the life of the person, at such rate per fortnight as is determined by, or in accordance with the instructions of, the Commonwealth Actuary, to be the equivalent of a lump sum equal to that lump sum payment and paid to the person on that earlier date.
(3A)	In this section, if:
(a)	a lump sum payment is made under section 137 of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988 to a person who is:
(i)	a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, in respect of the incapacity of the member from injury or disease; or
(ii)	a dependant of a member of the Forces or of a member of a Peacekeeping Force, in respect of the death of the member; and
(b)	that person is in receipt of, or is subsequently granted, a pension under this Part in respect of the same incapacity of the member from that or any other injury or disease or in respect of the death of that member;
the person is taken to have been, or to be, in receipt of payments of compensation:
(c)	that is determined by, or under the instructions of, the Commonwealth Actuary to be equivalent to the amount of that lump sum payment; and
(d)	at the rate per fortnight for the person’s life determined by, or under the instructions of, the Commonwealth Actuary; and
(e)	beginning:
(i)	on the day that lump sum payment is made to that person; or
(ii)	on the day the pension becomes payable to the person;
whichever is the later day.
(3B)	In this section, if:
(a)	a lump sum payment is made under section 30 of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988 to a person who is:
(i)	a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, in respect of the incapacity of the member from injury or disease; or
(ii)	a dependant of a member of the Forces or of a member of a Peacekeeping Force, in respect of the death of the member; and
(b)	that person is in receipt of, or is subsequently granted, a pension under this Part in respect of the same incapacity of the member from that or any other injury or disease or in respect of the death of that member;
the person is taken to have been, or to be, in receipt of payments of compensation:
(c)	that is determined by, or under the instructions of, the Commonwealth Actuary to be equivalent to the amount of that lump sum payment; and
(d)	at the rate per fortnight determined by, or under the instructions of, the Commonwealth Actuary for the period until the person reaches 65; and
(e)	beginning:
(i)	on the day that the lump sum payment is made to that person; or
(ii)	on the day the pension becomes payable to the person;
whichever is the later day.
(4)	For the purposes of this section, a payment by way of compensation made on behalf of, or for the benefit of, a person shall be deemed to have been made to that person.
(5)	Where:
(a)	an amount of damages payable to a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, or to a dependant of such a member, is paid to the Commonwealth in pursuance of a notice under section 76; or
(b)	the liability of the Commonwealth to pay damages to a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force or to a dependant of such a member, is, by virtue of section 77, to be deemed to have been discharged to the extent of a particular amount;
subsection (3) of this section applies to and in relation to the member or dependant as if pension commenced to be payable, or commences to be payable, only after the member or dependant has received payments by way of instalments of pension aggregating the amount referred to in paragraph (a) or (b), whichever is applicable, of this subsection.
(6)	In the application of subsections (8) and (9) in respect of the death of a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force:
(a)	if payments by way of compensation in respect of the death of the member are being made to 2 or more persons included in the relevant class of persons—a reference in those sections to the rate per fortnight at which compensation is payable in respect of the death of the member shall be read as a reference to the aggregate of the rates per fortnight at which those payments are being made; and
(b)	if pensions under this Part in respect of the death of the member are being paid, or are payable, to 2 or more persons included in the relevant class of persons—a reference in those sections to the rate at which pension under this Part is payable in respect of the death of the member shall be read as a reference to the aggregate of the rates per fortnight at which those pensions are being paid or are payable.
(7)	For the purposes of subsection (6), the dependants of a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force constitute the relevant class of persons.
(8)	If, in a case where this section applies in respect of the death of a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, or the incapacity of such a member, the rate per fortnight at which compensation is payable in respect of the death or incapacity equals or exceeds the rate per fortnight at which pension under this Part is payable in respect of the death or incapacity, then, pension is not payable under this Part to any person in respect of the death of the member, or the incapacity of the member, as the case may be.
(9)	If, in a case where this section applies in respect of the death of a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, or the incapacity of such a member, the rate per fortnight at which pension under this Part, or the aggregate of the rates per fortnight at which pensions under this Part would, but for this subsection, be payable in respect of the death or incapacity exceeds the rate per fortnight at which compensation is payable in respect of the death or incapacity, then:
(a)	if a pension under this Part is being paid, or is payable, to one person only in respect of the death or incapacity of the member—the rate per fortnight at which that pension is payable; or
(b)	if pensions under this Part are being paid, or are payable, to 2 or more persons in respect of the death of the member—the aggregate of the rates per fortnight at which those pensions are payable;
is an amount per fortnight equal to the amount of that excess.
(10)	In giving effect to subsection (9) as between 2 pensions in a case where one is required by subsection (12) to be preferred to the other, the rate per fortnight of the pension that is to be so preferred shall not be reduced until the pension that is not to be so preferred has ceased to be payable by reason that its rate per fortnight has been reduced to nil.
(11)	In giving effect to subsection (9) as between 2 or more pensions in a case where subsection (10) does not apply, the rate per fortnight of each of those pensions shall be reduced by an amount per fortnight that bears the same proportion to the amount per fortnight of the reduction required to be made to all those pensions as the rate per fortnight of that pension before the reduction bears to the aggregate rate per fortnight of all those pensions before the reduction.
(12)	For the purposes of this section:
(a)	a pension payable under this Part to the widow or widower of a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force who is deceased shall be preferred to such a pension payable to a child of the member; and
(b)	a pension payable under this Part to a child of a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force shall be preferred to such a pension payable to a younger child of the member.
75 Proceedings against third party
(1)	Where:
(a)	pension is, or has been, payable in respect of the incapacity of a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force from a defence-caused injury or a defence-caused disease or in respect of the death of such a member that was defence-caused;
(b)	a person other than the Commonwealth appears legally liable to pay damages in respect of the same incapacity of the member from that or any other injury or disease or in respect of that death; and
(c)	proceedings against that person for the purpose of recovering damages in respect of the same incapacity of the member, or in respect of that death, have not been instituted by the member, or by or for the benefit of a dependant of the member, or have been so instituted but have been discontinued or have not been properly prosecuted;
the Commission may, by notice in writing to the member or dependant, request the member or dependant to institute proceedings or fresh proceedings against that person for that purpose, or properly to prosecute the proceedings, as the case may be.
(2)	Where a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force or a dependant of such a member is requested, in accordance with subsection (1), to institute proceedings against a person:
(a)	if the member or dependant refuses or fails within a reasonable time after the making of the request to institute the proceedings or, having instituted the proceedings, discontinues the proceedings—the Commonwealth may institute proceedings or fresh proceedings, as the case may be, against the person in the name of the member or dependant for the recovery of damages in respect of the incapacity or death; or
(b)	if the member or dependant, having instituted proceedings, fails properly to prosecute the proceedings—the Commonwealth may take over the conduct of the proceedings.
(3)	Where a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, or a dependant of such a member, who is requested, in accordance with subsection (1), properly to prosecute proceedings instituted against a person refuses, or fails within a reasonable time after the making of the request, to do so, the Commonwealth may take over the conduct of the proceedings.
(4)	The Commonwealth is liable to pay all the costs of or incidental to proceedings referred to in subsection (1), (2) or (3), being costs payable by the plaintiff in those proceedings, but not including costs unreasonably incurred by the plaintiff.
(5)	Where, in accordance with this section, the Commonwealth institutes proceedings in the name of a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force or of a dependant of such a member, or takes over the conduct of proceedings that have been instituted in the name of such a member or of a dependant of such a member:
(a)	the Commonwealth may:
(i)	settle the proceedings either with or without obtaining judgment in the proceedings; and
(ii)	if a judgment is obtained in the proceedings in favour of the plaintiff—take such steps as are necessary to enforce that judgment; and
(b)	the member or dependant shall sign any document relevant to the proceedings, including the settlement of the proceedings, that a person acting in the proceedings on behalf of the Commonwealth requires that member or dependant to sign and, if he or she fails to sign any such document, the court or tribunal in which the proceedings are being taken may direct that the document be signed on his or her behalf by a person appointed by the court or tribunal for the purpose.
76 Payment of damages to Commonwealth
(1)	Where:
(a)	a person other than the Commonwealth appears to be liable:
(i)	to pay damages to a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force in respect of the incapacity of the member from an injury or disease to the member; or
(ii)	to pay damages to a dependant of a deceased member of the Forces or a deceased member of a Peacekeeping Force in respect of the death of the member; and
(b)	pension under this Part is payable or has been paid to the member in respect of the same incapacity of the member from that or any other injury or disease or to the dependant in respect of the death of the member;
the Commission may, by notice in writing to the person, require the person, in the event of the person agreeing to pay damages to the member in respect of the incapacity of the member, or to pay damages to the dependant in respect of the death, or in the event of damages against the person being awarded to the member in proceedings instituted in respect of the incapacity of the member, or to the dependant in proceedings instituted in respect of the death, to pay to the Commonwealth so much of the amount of the damages as does not exceed the aggregate, at the time the payment is made to the Commonwealth, of the amounts of pension under this Part that have been paid to the member in respect of the incapacity of the member, or to the dependant in respect of the death of the member, and the person shall comply with the notice.
(2)	Subject to subsection (3), where:
(a)	a person other than the Commonwealth has agreed:
(i)	to pay damages to a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force in respect of the incapacity of the member from an injury suffered by, or a disease contracted by, the member; or
(ii)	to pay damages to a dependant of a deceased member of the Forces or member of a Peacekeeping Force in respect of the death of the member;
and pension under this Part is payable, or has been paid, to the member in respect of the same incapacity of the member from that or any other injury or disease or to the dependant in respect of the death of the member; or
(b)	damages against a person other than the Commonwealth have been awarded:
(i)	to a member of the Forces or member of a Peacekeeping Force in respect of the incapacity of the member from an injury suffered by, or a disease contracted by, the member; or
(ii)	to a dependant of a deceased member of the Forces or member of a Peacekeeping Force in respect of the death of the member;
and pension under this Part is payable, or has been paid, to the member in respect of the same incapacity of the member from that or any other injury or disease or to the dependant in respect of the death of the member;
the Commission may, by notice in writing to the person, require the person to pay to the Commonwealth so much of the amount of the damages as does not exceed the aggregate, at the time the payment is made to the Commonwealth, of the amounts of pension under this Part that have been paid to the member in respect of the incapacity of the member or to the dependant in respect of the death of the member, and the person shall comply with the notice.
(3)	Where, before a notice under subsection (2) was received by a person, the person had paid to or in respect of the member or dependant the whole or any part of the damages to which the notice relates:
(a)	if the whole of the damages had been paid—the notice has no force or effect; or
(b)	if part only of the damages had been paid—the reference in that subsection to the amount of the damages shall be read as a reference to so much of that amount as has not been paid.
(4)	If a person fails to pay an amount to the Commonwealth in pursuance of a notice under this section, the Commonwealth may recover that amount from the person as a debt due to the Commonwealth by action in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(5)	The payment of an amount to the Commonwealth in pursuance of a notice under this section is, to the extent of the amount paid, a discharge of the liability of that person to the member or dependant.
(6)	In this section, damages does not include an amount that has been paid in pursuance of a notice under section 51 of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988.
77 Discharge of liability of Commonwealth to pay damages
Where:
(a)	damages against the Commonwealth have been awarded:
(i)	to a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force in proceedings instituted to recover damages in respect of the incapacity of the member from an injury suffered by, or a disease contracted by, the member; or
(ii)	to a dependant of a deceased member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force in proceedings instituted to recover damages in respect of the death of the member; and
(b)	pension under this Part is payable, or has been paid, to the member in respect of the same incapacity of the member from that or any other injury or disease or to the dependant in respect of the death of the member;
the liability of the Commonwealth to pay those damages, or such part of them as does not represent expenses incurred in medical or hospital treatment, shall be deemed to have been discharged to the extent of the aggregate of the amounts of that pension that have been paid to the member or the dependant, as the case may be.
78 Other payments of compensation
(1)	If, after any pension under this Part has been paid:
(a)	to a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force in respect of the incapacity of the member from a defence-caused injury or a defence-caused disease; or
(b)	to a dependant of a deceased member of the Forces or member of a Peacekeeping Force in respect of the death of the member that was defence-caused;
any compensation is paid under the law of a country other than Australia, or by, or under a scheme arranged by, an international organization, to or in respect of the member in relation to the same incapacity of the member from that or any other injury or disease, or to or in respect of the dependant in relation to the death of the member, the Commonwealth may recover from the member or dependant, as the case may be, by action in a court of competent jurisdiction, an amount equal to so much of the amount of compensation so paid as does not exceed the aggregate of the amounts of pension under this Part that have been so paid to the member or dependant, as the case may be.
(2)	The Commission may, by notice in writing to a person (being a claimant for pension under this Part, or a person in receipt of pension under this Part, in respect of the incapacity of a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force from a defence-caused injury or a defence-caused disease or the death of such a member), require the person to furnish to the Commission, within a reasonable period specified in the notice, a statutory declaration stating whether any compensation has been paid to or in respect of the person, or has been claimed by or in respect of the person, under a law of a country other than Australia, or under a scheme arranged by an international organization, in respect of the same incapacity of the member from that or any other injury or disease, or the death of the member, as the case may be.
(3)	Where a person refuses or fails to comply with a notice under subsection (2), the right of the person to pension under this Part in respect of the injury, disease or death to which the notice relates, and the right of the person to institute or take any proceedings under this Act in relation to that pension or a claim for that pension, are suspended until the statutory declaration is furnished.
(4)	Where a person’s right to pension under this Part is suspended under subsection (3), the person is not entitled to be paid pension under this Part in respect of the period of the suspension.
(5)	In this section:
compensation has the same meaning as it has in section 74.
international organization means:
(a)	an organization:
(i)	of which 2 or more countries, or the Governments of 2 or more countries, are members; or
(ii)	that is constituted by persons representing 2 or more countries, or representing the Governments of 2 or more countries; or
(b)	an organization that is:
(i)	an organ of, or office within, an organization described in paragraph (a);
(ii)	a commission, council or other body established by an organization so described or such an organ; or
(iii)	a committee, or subcommittee of a committee, of an organization described in paragraph (a), or of such an organ, council or body.
79 Overpayments of pension
(1)	Where:
(a)	an amount has been paid:
(i)	to a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force as pension under this Part in respect of the incapacity of the member from a defence-caused injury or defence-caused disease; or
(ii)	to a dependant of a deceased member of the Forces or member of a Peacekeeping Force as pension under this Part in respect of the death of the member that was defence-caused; and
(b)	by reason of section 25A or 74, that amount was not payable to the member or dependant;
an amount equal to the amount so paid is recoverable from the member or dependant, and may be so recovered, either in whole or in part, by deduction from any amount of pension under this Part payable to the member or dependant.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not prevent the recovery of an amount referred to in that subsection otherwise than as provided in that subsection, but an amount shall not be recovered as so provided and also otherwise than as so provided.
Part IVA—Advance payments of pension and income support supplement
	Division 1 — General
79A Definition
In this Part:
pension means a pension payable under Part II, III or IV or an income support supplement.
	Division 2 — Eligibility for advance payment
79B Eligibility for advance payment
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), a person is eligible for an advance payment of an amount of pension only if:
(a)	the pension is payable to the person; and
(b)	throughout the 3 months immediately before the person’s application for the advance payment is made, the person was receiving a pension, a social security pension or a social security benefit; and
(c)	the Commission is satisfied that the person will not suffer financial hardship from the reductions to be made in future instalments of the pension to recover the advance payment.
(2)	A person is not eligible for an advance payment if:
(a)	the maximum amount of advance payment to which the person would be entitled under Division 5 is less than 1/52 of the person’s advance payment eligible amount; or
(b)	the amount of an advance payment of:
(i)	pension; or
(ii)	a social security entitlement under Part 2.22 of the Social Security Act;
that the person received in full (whether as a single lump sum or in instalments) more than 12 months ago has not been fully repaid; or
(c)	the person owes a debt to the Commonwealth under section 205 or 205A.
The amount worked out under paragraph (a) must be rounded to the nearest cent (rounding 0.5 cents upwards).
Note 1:	Paragraph (a) does not prevent payment of an advance payment in instalments of less than the amount worked out under that paragraph.
Note 2:	For advance payment eligible amount, see subsection 5Q(1).
	Division 3 — Applying for advance payment
79C Application
A person who wants an advance payment of an amount of pension must make a proper application for the advance payment.
79D Who can apply
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), the application must be made by:
(a)	the person who wants to receive the advance payment; or
(b)	with the approval of that person—another person on the person’s behalf.
(2)	If a person is unable, because of physical or mental incapacity, to approve another person to make the application on his or her behalf, the Commission may approve another person to make the application.
79E Making an application
(1)	To be a proper application, the application must:
(a)	be made in writing; and
(b)	be in accordance with a form approved by the Commission; and
(c)	be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(2)	An application lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
79G Applicant must be Australian resident and in Australia
An application is not a proper application unless the person who wants to receive the advance payment is:
(a)	an Australian resident; and
(b)	in Australia;
on the day on which the application is lodged.
Note:	For Australian resident see section 5G.
79H Application may be withdrawn
(1)	An applicant, or a person approved by the applicant, may withdraw an application that has not been determined.
(2)	An application that is withdrawn is taken to have not been made.
(3)	A withdrawal may be made either orally or by document lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(4)	A withdrawal by document lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
	Division 4 — Determination of application and payment of advance payment
79I Commission to determine application
Determination of application
(1)	If an application for an advance payment of an amount of pension is made, the Commission must grant the application if it is satisfied that the person is eligible for the advance payment.
Record of determination and reasons
(2)	When the Commission makes a determination with respect to an application under subsection (1), it must make a written record of its determination.
(3)	The Commission must also make a statement in writing about the determination that:
(a)	sets out the Commission’s findings on material questions of fact; and
(b)	refers to the evidence or other material on which those findings are based; and
(c)	provides reasons for the Commission’s determination.
Notification of determination
(4)	As soon as practicable after the Commission makes a determination with respect to an application under subsection (1), the Commission must give the person who made the application:
(a)	a copy of the record of the Commission’s determination; and
(b)	subject to subsection (5), a copy of the statement about the determination referred to in subsection (3); and
(c)	particulars of the right of the person who made the claim to have the determination reviewed by the Commission.
(5)	If the statement referred to in paragraph (4)(b) contains any matter that, in the opinion of the Commission:
(a)	is of a confidential nature; or
(b)	might, if communicated to the person who made the application, be prejudicial to his or her physical or mental health or well-being;
the copy given to the person is not to contain that matter.
79J Payment of advance payment
(1)	Subject to subsection (3), if the application is granted, the advance payment of the pension is to be paid on the next day on which:
(a)	the person is paid an instalment of the pension; and
(b)	it is practicable to pay the advance payment.
(2)	The advance payment is to be paid as a lump sum.
(3)	The Commission may determine that an advance payment is to be paid on a day stated in the determination.
(4)	An advance payment of a pension is not payable if the pension is cancelled or reduced to nil before the day on which the advance payment would be paid apart from this subsection.
	Division 5 — Amount of advance payment
79K Amount of advance payment
(1)	The amount of an advance payment of pension is the smaller of the following amounts:
(a)	the amount of advance payment sought;
(b)	the maximum amount of advance payment payable to the person as worked out as follows:
Method statement
Step 1.	Work out 3/52 of the person’s advance payment eligible amount.
Step 2.	Work out the annual rate at which pension was payable to the person on the last payday before the application for the advance payment was made, disregarding:
(a)	any amount payable by way of remote area allowance; and
(b)	so much of the person’s pension supplement amount (if any) as is equal to the person’s minimum pension supplement amount.
Step 3.	Work out the smaller of the result of step 1 and:
(a)	if the pension is a service pension or income support supplement—7.5% of the result of step 2; and
(b)	otherwise—13 times the fortnightly rate of pension payable to the person.
Step 4.	Subtract the following from the result of step 3:
(a)	each advance payment (if any) of pension paid to the person during any of the 13 fortnights immediately before the application for the current advance payment was made;
(b)	each other advance payment (if any) of pension paid to the person that has not been fully repaid.
Step 5.	The result of step 4 (rounded to the nearest cent (rounding 0.5 cents upwards)) is the maximum amount of advance payment payable to the person.
Note 1:	The amount of the advance payment will be more than the minimum eligible amount for the person (see paragraph 79B(2)(a)).
Note 2:	For advance payment eligible amount, see subsection 5Q(1).
	Division 6 — Advance payment deductions
79L Advance payment deduction
(1)	Subject to subsection (2) and section 79O, an advance payment deduction is to be made from an instalment of pension that is payable to a person if:
(a)	the person has received an advance payment of that pension or of another pension that was previously payable to the person; and
(b)	the person has not yet fully repaid the advance payment; and
(c)	the amount of the advance payment that has not been repaid is not a debt under subsection 205(1AB).
(2)	An advance payment deduction is not to be made from a person’s instalment of pension on the payday on which the advance payment is paid.
79M Amount of advance payment deduction—basic calculation
Subject to sections 79N, 79O, 79P and 79Q, the advance payment deduction for an advance payment of a pension is the amount of the advance payment divided by 13.
79N Person may request larger advance payment deduction
(1)	Subject to subsection (2) and sections 79O, 79P and 79Q, a person’s advance payment deduction may be increased to a larger amount if the person asks the Commission in writing for the advance payment deduction to be the larger amount.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not apply if the Commission is satisfied that the person would suffer severe financial hardship if the advance payment deduction were the larger amount.
79O Reduction of advance payment deduction in cases of severe financial hardship
(1)	Subject to subsection (2) and sections 79P and 79Q, if:
(a)	a person applies in writing to the Commission for an advance payment deduction to be decreased, or to be stopped, because of severe financial hardship; and
(b)	the Commission is satisfied that:
(i)	the person’s circumstances are exceptional and could not reasonably have been foreseen at the time of the person’s application for the advance payment; and
(ii)	the person would suffer severe financial hardship if the advance payment deduction that would otherwise apply were to continue;
the Commission may determine in writing that, for the period stated in the determination, the advance payment deduction is to be the lesser amount (which may be a nil amount) stated in the determination.
(2)	At any time while the determination is in force, the Commission may:
(a)	vary the determination so as to require to be deducted from the person’s instalments of pension an advance payment deduction larger than the deduction (if any) previously applying under the determination, but smaller than the deduction applying immediately before the determination; or
(b)	revoke the determination;
but only if the Commission is satisfied that the person would not suffer severe financial hardship because of the variation or revocation.
(3)	A variation or revocation of a determination must be in writing.
79P The final advance payment deduction
If an advance payment deduction that would otherwise be deducted from a person’s instalment of pension exceeds the part of the advance payment that the person has not yet repaid (by previous deductions under this Division or otherwise), the amount of that advance payment deduction equals the part that the person has not yet repaid.
Example:
Facts:	Anne has been paid an advance of $450. Anne’s payment deduction is worked out under section 79M as follows:
(The amount is rounded to the nearest cent under section 79R.).
Anne has requested that the advance payment deduction be the larger amount of $55 (see section 79N), so that the advance will be repaid sooner.
Result:	If $55 is deducted from Anne’s fortnightly instalment of pension, $440 will have been repaid after 8 successive fortnights, leaving $10 unpaid. Under this section, the final advance payment deduction will be $10.
79Q Payment rate insufficient to cover advance payment deduction
If the instalment of pension (excluding remote area allowance in the case of a pension payable under Part III or income support supplement) is less than the amount that would be the advance payment deduction apart from this section, the advance payment deduction is taken to be equal to that instalment of pension.
79R Rounding of amounts
An amount worked out under this Division is to be rounded to the nearest cent (rounding half a cent upwards).
79S Unrepaid advance payments to deceased partner to be disregarded
(1)	In calculating, for the purposes of this Act, an amount of pension that would have been paid to a deceased person if the person had not died, any advance payment of pension that has been made to the person and has not been repaid is to be disregarded.
(2)	Subsection (1) does not affect the liability of the estate of the deceased person to repay to the Commonwealth so much of the advance payment as has not been repaid.
	Division 7 — Review by Commission
79T Request for review
(1)	A pensioner who is dissatisfied with a decision of the Commission in relation to an advance payment of an amount of pension may request the Commission to review the decision.
(2)	The request must:
(a)	be made within 3 months after the person seeking the review was notified of the decision; and
(b)	be in writing; and
(c)	set out the grounds on which the request is made; and
(d)	be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(2A)	A request lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
(3)	If a request for review is made in accordance with subsection (2), the Commission must review the decision.
(4)	If the Commission has delegated its power under this section to the person who made the decision under review, that person must not review the decision.
79U Commission’s powers
If the Commission reviews a decision under this Division, the Commission must:
(a)	affirm the decision; or
(b)	set it aside and substitute a new decision for it.
Note:	For the Commission’s evidence-gathering powers see section 79X.
79V Commission must make written record of review decision and reasons
(1)	When the Commission reviews a decision under this Division, it must make a written record of its decision upon review.
(2)	The written record must include a statement that:
(a)	sets out the Commission’s findings on material questions of fact; and
(b)	refers to the evidence or other material on which those findings are based; and
(c)	provides reasons for the Commission’s decision.
79W Person who requested review to be notified of decision
(1)	When the Commission affirms or sets aside a decision under this Division, it must give to the person who requested the review of the decision:
(a)	a copy of the Commission’s decision; and
(b)	subject to subsection (2), a copy of the statement referred to in subsection 79V(2) relating to the decision; and
(c)	a statement giving particulars of the person’s right to apply to the Administrative Review Tribunal for a review of the Commission’s decision.
(2)	If the statement referred to in paragraph (1)(b) contains any matter that, in the opinion of the Commission:
(a)	is of a confidential nature; or
(b)	may, if communicated to the person who requested review, be prejudicial to his or her physical or mental health or well-being;
the copy given to the person is not to contain that matter.
79X Powers of Commission to gather evidence
(1)	For the purposes of a review, the Commission may:
(a)	summon a person to appear at a hearing of the review to give evidence and to produce such documents (if any) as are referred to in the summons; and
(b)	require a person appearing at a hearing of the review for the purpose of giving evidence either to take an oath or to make an affirmation; and
(c)	administer an oath or affirmation to a person so appearing; and
(d)	adjourn a hearing of the review from time to time.
(2)	The person who applied for the review under this Division is a competent and compellable witness upon the hearing of the review.
(3)	The Commission’s power under subsection (1) to take evidence on oath or affirmation:
(a)	may be exercised on behalf of the Commission by:
(i)	the presiding member; or
(ii)	by another person (whether a member or not) authorised by the presiding member; and
(b)	may be exercised within or outside Australia; and
(c)	must be exercised subject to any limitations specified by the Commission.
(4)	If a person is authorised under subparagraph (3)(a)(ii) to take evidence for the purposes of a review, the person has all the powers of the Commission under subsection (1) for the purposes of taking that evidence.
79Y Withdrawal of request for review
(1)	A person who requests a review under section 79T may withdraw the request at any time before it is determined by the Commission.
(2)	To withdraw the request, the person must give written notice of withdrawal to the Secretary and the notice must be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(3)	Subject to subsection 79T(2), a person who withdraws a request for review may subsequently make another request for review of the same decision.
Note:	Subsection 79T(2) provides that a person who wants to request a review of a decision must do so within 3 months after the person has received notice of the decision.
Part V—Medical and other treatment
80 Interpretation
(1)	In this Part, unless the contrary intention appears, treatment means treatment provided, or action taken, with a view to:
(a)	restoring a person to, or maintaining a person in, physical or mental health;
(b)	alleviating a person’s suffering; or
(c)	ensuring a person’s social well-being;
and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, includes:
(d)	the provision of accommodation, medical procedures, nursing care, social or domestic assistance or transport;
(e)	the supply, renewal, maintenance and repair of artificial replacements, and surgical and other aids and appliances; and
(f)	the provision of diagnostic and counselling services;
for the purposes of, or in connection with, any such treatment or action.
(2)	In this Part:
(b)	a reference to a country area of a State shall be read as a reference to a part of that State, outside the metropolitan area of the capital city of that State, determined by the Commission, by instrument in writing, to be a country area of that State for the purposes of this Part; and
(c)	a reference to a veteran shall be read as a reference to a person who is a veteran as defined by paragraph (a) of the definition of veteran in subsection 5C(1) other than a person who:
(i)	is a veteran as so defined by reason only that the person has rendered service as described in item 3 of the table in subsection 6A(1) or as described in subsection 6C(2); and
(ii)	has not satisfied the Commission, whether before or after the commencement of this paragraph, that the person was domiciled in Australia or an external Territory immediately before the person’s appointment or enlistment for that service.
Note:	Section 11B may affect a person’s domicile immediately before appointment or enlistment.
81 Application of Part V
(1)	Without prejudice to its effect apart from this subsection, this Part has effect in relation to a person who is, or has been:
(a)	a member of the Forces as defined by subsection 68(1); or
(b)	a member of a Peacekeeping Force as defined by subsection 68(1);
and in relation to a dependant of such a person who has died, in like manner as it has effect in relation to a veteran and a dependant of a deceased veteran, respectively.
(2)	For the purpose of the application of this Part in accordance with subsection (1):
(a)	a reference in this Part to a veteran shall be read as a reference to a member of the Forces, or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, as defined by subsection 68(1);
(b)	a reference in this Part to a pension (other than a service pension), or to a pension under Part II shall be read as a reference to a pension under Part IV;
(c)	a reference in this Part to a war-caused injury shall be read as a reference to a defence-caused injury;
(d)	a reference in this Part to a war-caused disease shall be read as a reference to a defence-caused disease; and
(e)	a reference in this Part to the death of a veteran that was war-caused shall be read as a reference to the death of a member of the Forces, or member of a Peacekeeping Force, as defined by subsection 68(1), that was defence-caused.
84 Provision of treatment
(1A)	If treatment could be provided for a person consistently with this Part, the Commission must take reasonable steps to ensure that the treatment is provided for the person consistently with this Part.
(1B)	In subsection (1A), a reference to this Part includes a reference to the instruments made, and arrangements entered into, by the Commission under this Part.
(1)	The Commission may arrange for the provision of treatment for veterans and other persons eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part:
(b)	at a hospital or other institution in accordance with arrangements referred to in paragraph 89(1)(b) or (c); or
(c)	otherwise.
(2)	Subject to subsection (3), the Commission is not taken to have arranged for the provision of treatment for a person unless:
(a)	the treatment was provided in accordance with arrangements made by the Commission under this Part; or
(b)	the treatment was provided in the circumstances in which, and in accordance with the conditions subject to which, the treatment may be provided under this Part; or
(c)	the Commission approved the provision of the treatment before the treatment was given, or began to be given, as the case may be.
(3)	Where the Commission is satisfied that treatment was provided, or commenced to be provided, without the prior approval of the Commission, for an injury suffered, or disease contracted by a person:
(a)	at any time during the period from and including the date as from which the person has become eligible to be provided with treatment for that injury or disease to and including the date on which the determination was made by virtue of which the person has become eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part for that injury or disease; or
(b)	in circumstances in which it would be proper for the Commission to approve provision of the treatment after it had been given or had commenced to be given;
the Commission may, in its absolute discretion, approve the provision of that treatment and, if it does so, the Commission shall be deemed to have arranged for the provision of that treatment.
(3A)	If:
(a)	the Commission is satisfied that an entity, other than the Commission, has arranged for the provision of treatment for a person eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part; and
(b)	the treatment is of a kind mentioned in paragraph 90(1B)(a) and specified in the Treatment Principles;
then the Commission may, in accordance with the Treatment Principles as they relate to paragraph 90(1B)(b), accept financial responsibility for particular costs in relation to that treatment (including amounts of subsidy payable under Part 2 of Chapter 4 of the Aged Care Act 2024).
(4)	Nothing in this Part shall be taken to:
(a)	impose a duty on the Commission to arrange for the provision of; or
(b)	confer a right on a person to be provided, under arrangements made by the Commission, with;
treatment for a particular injury or disease, treatment of a particular kind for an injury or disease or treatment for an injury or disease outside Australia.
(5)	Subject to subsection (1A), nothing in this Part shall be taken to confer on a person a right to be provided with treatment for an injury or disease:
(a)	by the Commonwealth; or
(b)	by the Commission otherwise than to the extent that, and in a manner that, it may be provided under arrangements made by, or with the approval of, the Commission.
85 Veterans eligible to be provided with treatment
(1)	Where a determination under this Act is in force determining that an injury suffered by a veteran is a war-caused injury or that a disease contracted by a veteran is a war-caused disease, the veteran is eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part for that injury or disease from and including:
(a)	the date as from which a pension, or increased pension, is granted to the veteran under Part II in respect of his or her incapacity from that injury or disease; or
(b)	the date as from which such a pension or increased pension would have been granted to the veteran if the extent of the incapacity of the veteran from the injury or disease had not been insufficient to justify the grant of, or increase of, a pension under Part II.
Note:	A veteran might stop being eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part for an injury or disease if the veteran is entitled to treatment under the MRCA for the injury or disease (see section 85A of this Act).
(2)	A veteran is eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part for malignant neoplasia or pulmonary tuberculosis from and including the date that is 3 months before the date on which the application to be provided with that treatment is lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
Note 1:	A veteran or other person may be eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part for mental health conditions (such as post-traumatic stress disorder, alcohol use disorder or substance use disorder) and other conditions under a determination made under section 88A.
Note 1A:	A veteran or other person may be eligible to be provided with treatment, being treatment that is the provision of services under the program established by the Commonwealth and known as the Veteran Suicide Prevention pilot, in accordance with section 88B.
Note 2:	A veteran might stop being eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part for an injury or disease if the veteran is entitled to treatment under the MRCA for the injury or disease (see section 85A of this Act).
(2A)	A person is eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part for an injury (within the meaning of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988) if, as a result of table item 3 of the table in subsection 144B(3) of that Act, this subsection applies to the person and the injury.
(3)	Where a veteran:
(a)	is in receipt of a pension under Part II at the general rate or at a higher rate; or
(b)	is in receipt of a pension under Part II in respect of incapacity from a war-caused injury or a war-caused disease of a kind described in column 1 of the table in subsection 27(1);
the veteran is eligible to be provided, from and including the date as from which a pension is so payable to the veteran, with treatment under this Part for any injury suffered, or disease contracted, by the veteran, whether before or after the commencement of this Act.
(4)	Where:
(a)	a veteran rendered, while a member of the Defence Force, continuous full-time service during World War 1;
(aa)	a female veteran rendered, while a member of the Defence Force, service of the kind referred to in subparagraph 7A(1)(a)(i) during the period referred to in paragraph (b) of the definition of period of hostilities in subsection 5B(1);
(b)	before the MRCA commencement date a veteran was, while a member of the Defence Force, a prisoner of war during a war to which this Act applies or while serving on operational service; or
(c)	the veteran is a person who was an eligible civilian within the meaning of subsection 5C(1) and was, while he or she was such a civilian, detained by the enemy during World War 2;
the veteran is eligible to be provided, from and including the date on which the veteran’s application to be provided with treatment is lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T, with treatment under this Part for any injury suffered, or disease contracted, by the veteran, whether before or after the commencement of this Act.
(4A)	A veteran is eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part for any injury suffered, or disease contracted, by the veteran, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, if:
(a)	the veteran is 70 or over; and
(b)	the veteran has rendered qualifying service during the period covered by paragraph (b) of the definition of period of hostilities in subsection 5B(1); and
(c)	either:
(i)	the Department has notified the veteran in writing that he or she is or will be eligible for such treatment; or
(ii)	the veteran has, by written document lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T, notified the Department that he or she seeks eligibility for such treatment.
(4B)	A veteran is eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part for any injury suffered, or disease contracted, by the veteran, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, if:
(a)	the veteran is 70 or over; and
(b)	the veteran has rendered qualifying service within the meaning of subparagraph 7A(1)(a)(ii), (iii), (iv), (v) or (vi) or paragraph 7A(1)(b), (c) or (f); and
(c)	either:
(i)	the Department has notified the veteran in writing that he or she is or will be eligible for such treatment; or
(ii)	the veteran has, by written document lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T, notified the Department that he or she seeks eligibility for such treatment.
(4C)	A notification by the veteran under subparagraph (4A)(c)(ii) or (4B)(c)(ii) that is lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
(5)	A veteran referred to in section 53D is eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part for any injury suffered, or disease contracted, by the veteran, whether before or after the commencement of this Act.
(7)	Where a veteran:
(a)	is in receipt of a pension under Part II at a rate not less than 50 per centum of the general rate; and
(b)	is also in receipt of a service pension under Part III;
the veteran is, from and including:
(c)	the date as from which that pension under Part II became so payable to the veteran; or
(d)	the date as from which that service pension became payable to the veteran;
whichever is the later date, eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part for any injury suffered, or disease contracted, by the veteran, whether before or after the commencement of this Act.
(7A)	A veteran is eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part for any injury or disease if:
(a)	the veteran is receiving a service pension under Part III; and
(b)	an impairment suffered by the veteran from one or more service injuries or diseases constitutes at least 30 impairment points (within the meaning of the MRCA); and
(c)	the treatment is provided after both paragraphs (a) and (b) begin to apply to the veteran; and
(d)	the veteran is not already being provided with treatment for any injury or disease under Chapter 6 of the MRCA.
(8)	Where a service pension is suspended, the Commission may, by instrument in writing, determine, for the purposes of the application of the provisions of this section to and in relation to the person to whom the pension was granted, that that person shall be treated as if he or she were continuing to receive that pension during the period, or a specified part of the period, of the suspension.
(9)	Where:
(a)	a veteran, while a member of the Defence Force, rendered continuous full-time service outside Australia in the area described in item 4 or 8 of Schedule 2 (in column 1) while that area was an operational area, whether or not the veteran rendered that service:
(i)	as a member of a unit of the Defence Force that was allotted for duty; or
(ii)	as a person who was allotted for duty;
in that area; and
(b)	the Commission is satisfied that the veteran requires urgent treatment for an injury suffered, or disease contracted, by the veteran, whether before or after the commencement of this Act;
the veteran is eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part for that injury or disease:
(c)	at a hospital formerly operated and maintained by the Commission, if the Commission is satisfied that provision of that treatment will not adversely affect the capacity of the person operating the hospital to provide treatment at that hospital for veterans eligible to be provided with treatment by virtue of a preceding subsection or dependants of veterans eligible to be provided with treatment by virtue of subsection 86(1), (2), (3) or (4);
(d)	at a hospital in a country area of a State operated by that State, being a hospital in respect of which the Commission has entered into arrangements of a kind referred to in paragraph 89(1)(b); or
(e)	at a hospital in a Territory, being a hospital operated by the Commonwealth or the Government of that Territory in respect of which the Commission has entered into arrangements of a kind referred to in paragraph 89(1)(b).
(10)	Where a veteran has been provided with treatment at a hospital under subsection (9) for an injury or disease, the Commission may provide further treatment for that injury or disease otherwise than at a hospital of a kind referred to in that subsection if it is of the opinion that that further treatment is desirable.
(11)	Where a veteran would, but for the operation of section 26, 30C, 30D or 74, be in receipt of a pension under Part II:
(a)	at a rate referred to in paragraph (3)(a) or (7)(a) of this section; or
(b)	in respect of incapacity of a kind referred to in paragraph (3)(b) of this section;
subsection (3) or (7), as the case requires, of this section applies to the veteran as if the veteran were in receipt of that pension.
(12)	Where a veteran is, under a preceding subsection of this section, eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part for an injury suffered, or disease contracted, by the veteran from and including a particular date and is also, under another preceding subsection of this section, eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part for that injury or disease from and including an earlier date, the Commission may arrange for the veteran to be provided with treatment for that injury or disease from and including that earlier date.
(13)	If:
(a)	immediately before 1 January 2017, a veteran was receiving a service pension under Part III; and
(b)	the Commission is satisfied that the rate of that pension is nil on 1 January 2017 because of the operation of the amendments made by Part 1 of Schedule 3 to the Social Services Legislation Amendment (Fair and Sustainable Pensions) Act 2015;
then, for the purposes of paragraph (7)(b) or (7A)(a), on and after 1 January 2017 the veteran is taken to be receiving a service pension under Part III.
(14)	If:
(a)	a veteran begins to receive a veteran payment on a day; and
(b)	on the day before that day the veteran was receiving a service pension under Part III;
then, for the purposes of paragraph (7)(b) or (7A)(a), the veteran is taken to be receiving a service pension under Part III while the veteran is receiving that veteran payment.
85A Treatment under section 279 or 280 of the MRCA for aggravated injuries or diseases
(1)	This section applies if:
(a)	a person is entitled to treatment for an aggravated injury or disease (within the meaning of the MRCA) under section 279 or 280 of the MRCA; and
(b)	apart from this section, the person would also be eligible to be provided with treatment for the original injury or disease under subsection 85(1) or (2) of this Act.
Note:	A person who is eligible to be provided with treatment under this Act for any injury or disease would continue to be provided with that treatment.
(2)	The person is entitled to treatment only under section 279 or 280 of the MRCA, and not under subsection 85(1) or (2) of this Act, for the original injury or disease during the period in which the person is provided with treatment for the aggravated injury or disease.
(3)	During this period, the treatment for the original injury or disease is taken to be treatment to which a person is entitled under Part 3 of Chapter 6 of the MRCA for the purposes of section 289 of that Act (compensable treatment) but not for the purposes of section 288A of that Act (compensation for those entitled to treatment).
86 Dependants eligible to be provided with treatment
(1)	Where a determination under this Act is in force determining that the death of a veteran is war-caused, a dependant of the deceased veteran is eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part for any injury suffered, or disease contracted, by the dependant, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, from and including the date as from which a pension under Part II became payable to the dependant or would have become payable to the dependant but for the operation of subsection 13(7), 30(3), 30C(2) or (4) or 30D(1) or (3) of this Act or the dependant being in receipt of a pension under the Social Security Act.
(2)	Where:
(a)	a deceased veteran was, immediately before the veteran’s death, in receipt of a pension under Part II at the rate specified in subsection 22(4) or 24(4) or (6) or at a rate that had been increased under section 27 by reason that the veteran’s pension was in respect of incapacity of a kind described in item 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 in the table in subsection 27(1); or
(b)	a pension has been granted under Part II, after the death of a veteran, in respect of the veteran at the rate specified in subsection 22(4) or 24(4) or (6) or at a rate that had been increased under section 27 by reason that the veteran’s pension was in respect of incapacity of a kind described in item 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 of the table in subsection 27(1); or
(c)	a deceased veteran was, before the MRCA commencement date, a prisoner of war at a time when the veteran was on operational service;
a dependant of the deceased veteran is eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part for any injury suffered, or disease contracted, by the dependant, whether before or after the commencement of this subsection, from and including the day immediately following the day on which the veteran died.
(2A)	A reinstated pensioner is eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part for any injury suffered or disease contracted by the pensioner whether before or after the commencement of this Act. The pensioner is eligible from and including the date as from which a pension under Part II:
(a)	became payable to the pensioner; or
(b)	would have become payable except for:
(i)	the operation of subsection 30(3); or
(ii)	the pensioner being in receipt of a pension under the Social Security Act.
(3)	A child of a deceased veteran who is in receipt of, is eligible to receive or would, but for subsection 13(7), be eligible to receive a pension under Part II by virtue of subsection 13(4) is eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part for any injury suffered, or disease contracted, by the child, whether before or after the commencement of this Act.
(4)	A child of a deceased veteran is eligible to be provided with treatment under subsection (3) from and including:
(a)	subject to paragraph (b)—the day (in this subsection referred to as the relevant day) immediately following the day on which the veteran died; or
(b)	if the Commission is satisfied that the child was then being maintained by a parent, adoptive parent or step-parent, the earliest day after the relevant day as from which the Commission is satisfied that the child was not being so maintained.
(5)	Where the Commission is satisfied that a dependant of a veteran referred to in paragraph 85(9)(a) requires urgent treatment for an injury suffered, or disease contracted, by the dependant, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, the dependant is eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part for that injury or disease:
(a)	at a hospital formerly operated and maintained by the Commission, if the Commission is satisfied that provision of the treatment will not affect the capacity of the person operating the hospital to provide treatment at that hospital for veterans eligible to be provided with treatment by virtue of subsection 85(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (7) or (8) or dependants of veterans eligible to be provided with treatment by virtue of a preceding subsection of this section; or
(b)	at a hospital in a country area of a State operated by that State, being a hospital in respect of which the Commission has entered into arrangements of a kind referred to in paragraph 89(1)(b); or
(c)	at a hospital in a Territory, being a hospital operated by the Commonwealth or the Government of that Territory in respect of which the Commission has entered into arrangements of a kind referred to in paragraph 89(1)(b).
(6)	Where a dependant of a veteran has been provided with treatment at a hospital under subsection (5) for an injury or disease, the Commission may provide further treatment for the dependant for that injury or disease otherwise than at a hospital of a kind referred to in that subsection if it is of the opinion that that further treatment is desirable.
88A Commission may determine specified veterans and others are eligible to be provided with specified treatment
(1)	The Commission may, by written determination, state the following:
(a)	that a veteran included in a specified class is eligible to be provided with treatment of a specified kind under this Part;
(b)	that a person who is the dependant of a veteran and who is in a specified class is eligible to be provided with treatment of a specified kind under this Part;
(c)	that a person who was the dependant of a veteran and who is in a specified class is eligible to be provided with treatment of a specified kind under this Part;
(d)	that a person who is not covered by paragraph (a), (b) or (c) and who is in a specified class is eligible to be provided with treatment of a specified kind under this Part.
Variation or revocation
(2)	The Commission may, by written determination, vary or revoke a determination under subsection (1).
Legislative instrument
(3)	A determination under this section is a legislative instrument.
88B Provision of services under the Veteran Suicide Prevention pilot
(1)	A person is eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part, being treatment that is the provision of services under the program established by the Commonwealth and known as the Veteran Suicide Prevention pilot, if the person is included in a class of persons determined in an instrument under subsection (2).
(2)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, determine a class of persons for the purposes of subsection (1).
(3)	Despite subsection 14(2) of the Legislation Act 2003, an instrument under subsection (2) of this section may make provision in relation to a matter by applying, adopting or incorporating, with or without modification, any matter contained in an instrument or other writing as in force or existing from time to time.
89 Treatment at hospitals and other institutions
(1)	For the purposes of this Part, the Commission may:
(a)	establish, operate and maintain hospitals or other institutions for the care and welfare of persons eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part;
(b)	enter into arrangements with the appropriate authority of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory for the provision, at a hospital or other institution operated by the Commonwealth, the State or the Government of the Territory, as the case may be, of care and welfare for persons eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part; and
(c)	enter into arrangements with the body (other than an authority referred to in paragraph (b)) operating a hospital or other institution for the provision, at that hospital or institution, of care and welfare for persons eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part.
(2)	In subsection (1), a reference to a hospital or other institution is to be read as including a reference to a home, a hostel, a medical centre, an out-patient clinic and a rehabilitation or training establishment.
90 Treatment Principles
(1)	The Commission may, in writing, determine principles setting out circumstances in which, and conditions subject to which, treatment of a particular kind, or included in a particular class of treatment, may be provided under this Part for, or in respect of, eligible persons:
(b)	at a hospital or other institution in respect of which the Commission has entered into arrangements under paragraph 89(1)(b) or (c); or
(c)	otherwise under this Part.
Note:	For eligible person, see subsection (8).
(1A)	A determination under subsection (1) may also include provisions dealing with the following matters in relation to treatment to be provided to an eligible person:
(a)	whether approval by the Commission of the treatment is required;
(b)	if approval by the Commission of the treatment is required—the exercise of the Commission’s power to approve the treatment, whether before or after the treatment is given or begins to be given;
(c)	where the treatment may be provided.
(1B)	A determination under subsection (1) may also include provisions:
(a)	specifying kinds of treatment for the purposes of paragraph 84(3A)(b); and
(b)	specifying the circumstances in which, and the extent to which, the Commission may accept financial responsibility for particular costs relating to that treatment (including amounts of subsidy payable under Part 2 of Chapter 4 of the Aged Care Act 2024).
(2)	Without limiting the generality of subsection (1), a determination under that subsection may specify kinds or classes of treatment that will not be provided for, or in respect of, eligible persons under this Part, or will not be so provided at places, or in circumstances, specified or described in the determination.
Determination must be approved by the Minister
(3)	A determination under subsection (1) has no effect unless the Minister has approved it in writing.
(4)	A determination under subsection (1) approved by the Minister and as in force from time to time is the Treatment Principles.
Variation or revocation of Treatment Principles
(5)	The Commission may, by written determination, vary or revoke the Treatment Principles.
(6)	A determination under subsection (5) has no effect unless the Minister has approved it in writing.
Legislative instruments
(7)	A determination under subsection (1) or (5) made by the Commission and approved by the Minister is a legislative instrument made by the Minister on the day on which the determination is approved.
Incorporation of other instruments
(7A)	Despite subsection 14(2) of the Legislation Act 2003:
(a)	a determination under subsection (1); or
(b)	a determination under subsection (5) varying the Treatment Principles;
may make provision in relation to a matter by applying, adopting or incorporating, with or without modification, any matter contained in an instrument or other writing as in force or existing from time to time.
Treatment Principles are binding on the Commission
(7B)	The Treatment Principles are binding on the Commission in the exercise of its powers and discretions under this Part.
Eligible person
(8)	In this section eligible person means a person eligible under section 85, 86, 88A or 88B to be provided with treatment.
90AA Provision of services under the Coordinated Veterans’ Care mental health pilot
(1)	Despite section 90, a person is entitled to services under the program established by the Commonwealth and known as the Coordinated Veterans’ Care mental health pilot only if:
(a)	the person is included in a class of persons determined in an instrument under subsection (2); and
(b)	the Commission has determined, in writing, that this section applies to the person.
(2)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, determine a class of persons for the purposes of paragraph (1)(a).
(3)	Despite subsection 14(2) of the Legislation Act 2003, an instrument under subsection (2) of this section may make provision in relation to a matter by applying, adopting or incorporating, with or without modification, any matter contained in an instrument or other writing as in force or existing from time to time.
(4)	A determination under paragraph (1)(b) is not a legislative instrument.
90A Repatriation Private Patient Principles
(1)	The Commission may, in writing, determine principles setting out the circumstances in which treatment provided by the Commission to eligible persons is to be provided to them as private patients.
Note:	For eligible person, see subsection (9).
(2)	A determination under subsection (1) may also include provisions dealing with the following matters in relation to treatment to be provided to an eligible person as a private patient:
(a)	whether approval by the Commission of the treatment is required;
(b)	if approval by the Commission of the treatment is required—the exercise of the Commission’s power to approve the treatment, whether before or after the treatment has been given or begun;
(c)	where the treatment may be provided.
Determination must be approved by the Minister
(3)	A determination under subsection (1) has no effect unless the Minister has approved it in writing.
(4)	A determination under subsection (1) approved by the Minister and as in force from time to time is the Repatriation Private Patient Principles.
Variation or revocation of Repatriation Private Patient Principles
(5)	The Commission may, by written determination, vary or revoke the Repatriation Private Patient Principles.
(5A)	A determination under subsection (5) has no effect unless the Minister has approved it in writing.
Legislative instruments
(5B)	A determination under subsection (1) or (5) made by the Commission and approved by the Minister is a legislative instrument made by the Minister on the day on which the determination is approved.
Incorporation of other instruments
(5C)	Despite subsection 14(2) of the Legislation Act 2003:
(a)	a determination under subsection (1); or
(b)	a determination under subsection (5) varying the Repatriation Private Patient Principles;
may make provision in relation to a matter by applying, adopting or incorporating, with or without modification, any matter contained in an instrument or other writing as in force or existing from time to time.
(6)	Section 12 of the Legislation Act 2003 has effect in relation to a determination referred to in subsection (5B) as if a reference in that section to the day when the instrument is registered were a reference to the day on which the Minister approved the determination.
When treatment is provided as a private patient
(8)	For the purposes of this section, treatment is taken to be provided to a person as a private patient if:
(a)	the treatment is provided to the person as a person who is, for the purposes of the Health Insurance Act 1973, a private patient of a hospital; or
(b)	the treatment is provided to the person by a medical specialist to whom the person has been referred but is not provided at a hospital.
Eligible person
(9)	In this section:
eligible person means a person eligible under section 85 or 86 to be provided with treatment.
90B Application of Repatriation Private Patient Principles
(1)	The Commission may, by notice published in the Gazette, declare that the Repatriation Private Patient Principles are to apply in relation to a specified State or Territory from a specified day.
(2)	If the Commission publishes a notice under subsection (1) declaring that the Repatriation Private Patient Principles are to apply in relation to a specified State or Territory from a specified day, then, on and after the specified day, for so long as the notice remains in force, the Repatriation Private Patient Principles are binding on the Commission in the exercise of its powers and discretions under this Part in relation to the provision of treatment in the State or Territory.
91 Repatriation Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme
(1)	The Commission may, in writing, determine a scheme for the provision of pharmaceutical benefits to persons eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part.
Note:	For pharmaceutical benefits, see subsection (9).
(1A)	Without limiting the generality of subsection (1), a determination under that subsection may specify classes of persons eligible to be provided with treatment under this Part for whom pharmaceutical benefits, or pharmaceutical benefits of a kind specified in the determination or included in a class of pharmaceutical benefits so specified, will not be so provided or will not be so provided in circumstances specified or described in the determination.
Determination must be approved by the Minister
(2)	A determination under subsection (1) has no effect unless the Minister has approved it in writing.
(3)	A determination under subsection (1) approved by the Minister and as in force from time to time is the Repatriation Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme.
Variation or revocation of Repatriation Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme
(4)	The Commission may, by written determination, vary or revoke the Repatriation Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme.
(5)	A determination under subsection (4) has no effect unless the Minister has approved it in writing.
Legislative instruments
(5A)	A determination under subsection (1) or (4) made by the Commission and approved by the Minister is a legislative instrument made by the Minister on the day on which the determination is approved.
Incorporation of other instruments
(5B)	Despite subsection 14(2) of the Legislation Act 2003:
(a)	a determination under subsection (1); or
(b)	a determination under subsection (4) varying the Repatriation Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme;
may make provision in relation to a matter by applying, adopting or incorporating, with or without modification, any matter contained in an instrument or other writing as in force or existing from time to time.
Inquiry by Pharmaceutical Benefits Remuneration Tribunal
(6)	Where the Pharmaceutical Benefits Remuneration Tribunal established under the National Health Act 1953 is holding, or proposes to hold, an inquiry under that Act to ascertain whether the Commonwealth price of all or any pharmaceutical benefits under that Act should be varied, the Minister may request that Tribunal to extend its inquiry to include the question whether the prices payable to pharmaceutical chemists in respect of the supply by them, in accordance with the Repatriation Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme under this section or a pharmaceutical benefits determination under section 286 of the MRCA, of pharmaceutical benefits of the kinds specified by the Minister in his or her request should be varied and, where such a request is made, the Tribunal shall comply with the request.
(7)	After completion of an inquiry referred to in subsection (6), the Pharmaceutical Benefits Remuneration Tribunal shall submit to the Minister:
(a)	the recommendations of the Tribunal on the question the subject of the request made by the Minister under subsection (6); and
(b)	where the Tribunal has submitted to the Minister administering Part VII of the National Health Act 1953 a report in connection with that inquiry—a copy of that report.
(8)	If the Pharmaceutical Benefits Remuneration Tribunal submits the recommendations and a copy of the report to the Minister, the Commission may:
(a)	under subsection (4), vary the Repatriation Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme; or
(b)	under subsection 286(5) of the MRCA, vary the pharmaceutical benefits determination under section 286 of that Act;
in any manner the Commission considers desirable as a result of its consideration of the recommendations and the report.
Pharmaceutical benefits
(9)	In this section:
pharmaceutical benefits means drugs, medicinal preparations and other pharmaceutical items (including aids to treatment and dressings) for the treatment of sicknesses or injuries suffered by human beings.
92 Counselling services and psychiatric assessment
(1)	The Commission may, with the approval of the Minister, arrange for the provision of:
(a)	counselling services for:
(i)	veterans and dependants of veterans; and
(ii)	a person in a class in respect of which a determination under paragraph 88A(1)(c) has been made; and
(iii)	a person included in a class of persons specified in an instrument under subsection (2); and
(b)	psychiatric assessment of a person in a class in respect of which a determination under paragraph 88A(1)(b) or (c) has been made.
(2)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, specify a class of persons for the purposes of subparagraph (1)(a)(iii).
93 Recovery of cost of treatment
(1)	In this section, compensation, in relation to a person who is being, or has been, provided with treatment by the Commission under this Part, means an amount that is by way of compensation or damages, or is, in the opinion of the Commission, in the nature of compensation or damages, in respect of the disease, disability or condition by reason of which that treatment is being, or has been, provided.
(2)	Where a person (in this section referred to as the patient) who is being, or has been, provided with treatment under this Part:
(a)	has made a claim against another person for compensation, or may be, or may become, entitled to be paid compensation by another person, in relation to the disease, disability or condition by reason of which that treatment is being so provided, or has been so provided;
(b)	is entitled, whether by virtue of an order of a court, a settlement of a claim for compensation or otherwise, to be so paid compensation by another person; or
(c)	has been so paid compensation by another person, whether by virtue of an order of a court, a settlement of a claim for compensation or otherwise;
the Commission may cause to be served on the patient a notice in writing requiring the patient to pay for the treatment that has been provided for the patient under this Part before the date of service of the notice, and for any treatment that is provided for the patient under this Part at any time on or after that date, for or in relation to that disease, disability or condition and, upon service of the notice, the patient becomes, by force of this section, liable to pay to the Commonwealth an amount equal to the cost, or amounts aggregating the sum of the costs, as determined by the Commission, of and incidental to:
(d)	the treatment that has been so provided for the patient before the date of service of the notice; and
(e)	any treatment that is so provided for the patient on or after that date.
(3)	Where the patient is, in pursuance of subsection (2), liable to make payment to the Commonwealth for treatment provided by the Commission, the Commission may, by notice in writing served on a person (in this section referred to as the relevant person) who:
(a)	may be, or may become, liable; or
(b)	is liable;
to pay compensation to, or for the benefit of, the patient in respect of the disease, disability or condition by reason of which that treatment is being, or has been, provided, inform the relevant person that the patient is liable to make payment to the Commonwealth for treatment provided under this Part, whether before or after the service of the notice, for or in relation to that disease, disability or condition.
(4)	Where the relevant person on whom a notice has been served under subsection (3):
(a)	is, when the notice is served on him or her, liable to pay compensation to or for the benefit of the patient to whom the notice relates in respect of the disease, disability or condition to which the notice relates; or
(b)	becomes, after service of the notice, so liable to pay compensation;
the relevant person becomes liable, by virtue of this subsection, to pay to the Commonwealth:
(c)	an amount equal to the cost of the treatment provided for the patient in respect of that disease, disability or condition under this Part that the patient is liable, or may become liable, under subsection (2) of this section to pay; or
(d)	an amount equal to the amount of the compensation that the relevant person is liable, or becomes liable, so to pay;
whichever is the less.
(5)	Where, before a notice is served on the relevant person under subsection (3), the relevant person has paid to, or for the benefit of, the patient the whole of the compensation that the relevant person is liable to pay in respect of the disease, disability or condition to which the notice relates, the notice has no force or effect.
(6)	Where the relevant person is liable, or becomes liable, to pay an amount to the Commonwealth under subsection (4), the person shall not, without the permission of the Commission, pay the compensation, or any part of the compensation, to, or for the benefit of, the patient.
(7)	Payment to the Commonwealth of an amount that the relevant person is liable to pay to the Commonwealth under subsection (4) operates, to the extent of the payment, as a discharge to the relevant person of his or her liability to pay compensation to the person entitled to receive the compensation and as a discharge to that last-mentioned person of his or her liability under subsection (2).
(8)	The Commonwealth may recover in a court of competent jurisdiction an amount that a person is liable to pay to the Commonwealth under subsection (2) or (4).
(9)	Where the Commission determines, in writing, the amount of the cost of, and incidental to, treatment provided under this Part for the patient during a specified period in respect of a disease, disability or condition in relation to which a notice has been served on the patient under subsection (2), the Commission may serve a notice on the patient containing a copy of that determination, or notices on the patient and the relevant person containing copies of that determination, and, if it does so, a copy so served is, for all purposes, prima facie evidence:
(a)	that the copy of that determination set out in the notice is a true copy of the determination of which it purports to be a copy;
(b)	that that determination was duly made by the Commission; and
(c)	that the amount specified in the determination is the amount that the patient is liable, by force of subsection (2), to pay to the Commonwealth as the cost of and incidental to the treatment provided for the patient under this Part during the period so specified for and in relation to that disease, disability or condition.
(10)	Service of a notice, or notices, under subsection (9) on a patient, or on a patient and the relevant person, in relation to the cost of the treatment provided by the Commission under this Part does not prevent the making of a further determination, and the service by the Commission of a further notice, or of further notices, under that subsection on the patient, or on the patient and the relevant person, in relation to the cost of other treatment provided by the Commission for the patient under this Part.
(11)	The reference in subsection (2) to another person shall be read as including a reference to the Commonwealth, a State, a Territory or an authority of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory.
(12)	The reference in subsection (3) to a person (not being the patient) shall be read as including a reference to an insurer who, under a contract of insurance, is liable to indemnify the person liable to pay compensation to, or for the benefit of, the patient against that liability.
93A Charges payable to Commonwealth
(1)	In this section:
contributor, in relation to a private health insurer, means a person who is a holder (within the meaning of the Private Health Insurance Act 2007) of a complying health insurance policy (within the meaning of section 63-10 of that Act) entered into with the insurer.
private health insurer has the same meaning as in the Private Health Insurance Act 2007.
(2)	Where:
(a)	a person is provided with treatment under section 85 or 86;
(b)	the person is a contributor to a fund conducted by a private health insurer; and
(c)	the person will, in the opinion of the Commission, if the person pays or becomes liable to pay to the Commonwealth an amount in respect of the treatment, be entitled to receive an amount by way of benefit as such a contributor in respect of that treatment;
the Commission may, by notice in writing given to the person, request the person to pay to the Commonwealth in respect of the treatment an amount specified in the notice, being an amount ascertained in accordance with a scale of charges determined by the Commission by instrument in writing, and where the Commission gives such a notice to the person, the person is liable to pay to the Commonwealth the amount specified in the notice.
(3)	Where:
(a)	a person is liable to pay an amount to the Commonwealth under subsection (2) in respect of treatment; and
(b)	a private health insurer becomes liable to pay an amount by way of benefit to that person as a contributor in respect of that treatment;
the insurer is liable to pay the amount referred to in paragraph (b) to the Commonwealth, and payment of that amount to the Commonwealth operates as a discharge of that person’s liability under subsection (2) in respect of the treatment and as a discharge of the liability of the insurer to pay that amount to that person.
(4)	The Commonwealth may recover in a court of competent jurisdiction an amount that a private health insurer is liable to pay to the Commonwealth under subsection (3).
93B False statements relating to treatment
(1)	A person shall not make, or authorise the making of, a statement (whether oral or in writing) that is:
(a)	false or misleading in a material particular; and
(b)	capable of being used in connection with a claim for payment for treatment provided under this Part.
Penalty:	20 penalty units.
(2)	Where:
(a)	a person (in this subsection referred to as the principal) makes a statement (in this subsection referred to as the principal’s statement), whether oral or in writing, that is false or misleading in a material particular;
(b)	the principal’s statement is capable of being used in connection with a claim for payment for treatment provided under this Part;
(c)	the material particular in respect of which the principal’s statement is false or misleading is substantially based upon a statement (in this subsection referred to as the associate’s statement) made, either orally or in writing, to the principal or to the agent of the principal, by another person (in this subsection referred to as the associate) who is an employee or agent of the principal; and
(d)	the associate’s statement is false or misleading in a material particular;
the associate commits an offence punishable on conviction by a fine not exceeding 20 penalty units.
(3)	In subsection (2), a reference to an employee of a person shall, in a case where the person is a corporation, be read as a reference to:
(a)	a director, secretary, manager or employee of the corporation;
(b)	a receiver and manager of any part of the undertaking of the corporation appointed under a power contained in any instrument; or
(c)	a liquidator of the corporation appointed in a voluntary winding up.
(4)	Notwithstanding section 15B of the Crimes Act 1914, a prosecution for an offence under this section may be commenced at any time within 3 years after the commission of the offence.
(4A)	An offence under subsection (1) or (2) is an offence of strict liability.
Note:	For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code.
(5)	It is a defence if a person charged with an offence under this section in relation to a statement made by the person did not know, and could not reasonably be expected to have known, that the statement was:
(a)	false or misleading in a material particular; or
(b)	capable of being used in connection with a claim for payment for treatment provided under this Part.
Note:	The defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (5). See subsection 13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
(6)	In this section, a reference to making a statement includes a reference to issuing or presenting a document, and a reference to a statement shall be construed accordingly.
93C Knowingly making false statements relating to treatment
(1)	A person shall not make, or authorise the making of, a statement, whether oral or in writing, if the person knows that the statement is:
(a)	false or misleading in a material particular; and
(b)	capable of being used in connection with a claim for payment for treatment provided under this Part.
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 5 years or 100 penalty units, or both.
(2)	Where:
(a)	a person (in this subsection referred to as the principal) makes a statement (in this subsection referred to as the principal’s statement), whether oral or in writing, that is false or misleading in a material particular;
(b)	the principal’s statement is capable of being used in connection with a claim for payment for treatment provided under this Part;
(c)	the material particular in respect of which the principal’s statement is false or misleading is substantially based upon a statement (in this subsection referred to as the associate’s statement) made, either orally or in writing, to the principal or to an agent of the principal by another person (in this subsection referred to as the associate) who is an employee or agent of the principal;
(d)	the associate knew that the associate’s statement was false or misleading in a material particular; and
(e)	the associate knew, or had reasonable grounds to suspect, that the associate’s statement would be used in the preparation of a statement of the kind referred to in paragraph (b);
the associate commits an offence punishable on conviction by imprisonment for a period not exceeding 5 years or a fine not exceeding 100 penalty units, or both.
(3)	In subsection (2), a reference to an employee of a person shall, in a case where that person is a corporation, be read as a reference to:
(a)	a director, secretary, manager or employee of the corporation;
(b)	a receiver and manager of any part of the undertaking of the corporation appointed under a power contained in any instrument; or
(c)	a liquidator of the corporation appointed in a voluntary winding up.
(5)	In this section, a reference to making a statement includes a reference to issuing or presenting a document, and a reference to a statement shall be construed accordingly.
93D Bribery etc.
(1)	In this section:
dental practitioner means a person registered or licensed as a dental practitioner or dentist under a law of a State or Territory that provides for the registration or licensing of dental practitioners or dentists.
eligible person means a person eligible under section 85 or 86 to be provided with treatment under this Part.
in-patient, in relation to a private hospital, means a person who occupies a bed in the hospital.
medical practitioner means a person registered or licensed as a medical practitioner under a law of a State or Territory that provides for the registration or licensing of medical practitioners.
officer, in relation to a corporation, includes:
(a)	a director, secretary, manager or employee of the corporation;
(b)	a receiver and manager of any part of the undertaking of the corporation appointed under a power contained in any instrument; or
(c)	a liquidator of the corporation appointed in a voluntary winding up.
pathology service means a procedure of a kind described in an item in the table of pathology services prescribed by regulations made for the purposes of section 4A of the Health Insurance Act 1973.
patient means an eligible person who is provided with treatment under this Part.
practitioner means:
(a)	a medical practitioner; or
(b)	a dental practitioner.
private hospital means premises that are a private hospital for the purposes of section 3 of the Health Insurance Act 1973.
proprietor means:
(a)	in relation to premises—the person, authority or body of persons having effective control of the premises, whether or not that person, authority or body is the holder of an estate or interest in the premises; and
(b)	in relation to a private hospital—the proprietor (within the meaning of paragraph (a)) of the premises occupied by the hospital.
(2)	A person who:
(a)	being a person who renders pathology services, carries on the business of rendering pathology services or is a proprietor of premises at which pathology services are rendered, directly or indirectly offers any inducement (whether by way of money, property or other benefit or advantage), or threatens any detriment or disadvantage:
(i)	to a practitioner as defined in subsection (1) in order to encourage the practitioner to request the rendering of a pathology service or of pathology services; or
(ii)	to a person (other than a practitioner as defined in subsection (1)) in order to encourage such a practitioner to request the rendering of a pathology service or of pathology services;
(b)	being a person who renders pathology services, carries on the business of rendering pathology services or is a proprietor of premises at which pathology services are rendered:
(i)	directly or indirectly invites a practitioner as defined in subsection (1) to request the rendering of a pathology service or of pathology services; or
(ii)	does any act or thing that the person knows, or ought reasonably to know, is likely to have the effect of directly or indirectly encouraging a practitioner as defined in subsection (1) to request the rendering of a pathology service or of pathology services; or
(c)	being a practitioner as defined in subsection (1) who provides treatment for eligible persons under this Part, asks, receives or obtains, or agrees to receive or obtain, any property, benefit or advantage of any kind for himself or herself, or for any other person, from a person carrying on the business of rendering pathology services or from a person acting on behalf of a person carrying on such a business;
commits an offence against this section.
(3)	In subsection (2):
(a)	a reference to requesting the rendering of a pathology service shall be read as a reference to requesting the rendering of a pathology service or of pathology services for a person who is eligible to be provided with that service or those services under this Part;
(b)	a reference to requesting the rendering of pathology services shall be read as a reference to requesting the rendering of pathology services for persons who are eligible to be provided with those services under this Part; and
(c)	a reference to a person carrying on the business of rendering pathology services shall be read as a reference to a person who carries on a business in the course of which any pathology services are rendered.
(4)	A person who, being a practitioner as defined in subsection (1), asks, receives or obtains, or agrees to receive or obtain, any property, benefit or advantage of any kind for himself or herself or for any other person from a proprietor of a private hospital or from a person acting on behalf of such a proprietor on the understanding that the first-mentioned person will, in any manner, do any act or thing the purpose of which is, or the effect of which will be, to enable an eligible person to be admitted as an in-patient in the hospital for treatment that the person is eligible to be provided with under this Part, commits an offence against this section.
(5)	A person who, being a proprietor or one of the proprietors of a private hospital or a person acting on behalf of such a proprietor, in order to influence or affect a practitioner as defined in subsection (1) in the doing of any act or thing the purpose of which is, or the effect of which will be, to enable an eligible person to be admitted as an in-patient in the hospital for treatment that the person is eligible to be provided with under this Part, gives or confers, or agrees to give or confer, to or on the practitioner or any other person any property, benefit or advantage of any kind, commits an offence against this section.
(6)	Where an offence against this section is committed by a corporation, an officer of the corporation who intentionally authorised or permitted the commission of the offence commits an offence against this section.
(8)	A person who is convicted of an offence against this section is punishable by imprisonment for a period not exceeding 5 years or a fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
(9)	In a prosecution of a person for an offence against this section, it is a defence if the person proves that the conduct in question was in accordance with the standards of professional conduct generally accepted by medical practitioners.
(9A)	Paragraph (2)(c), and subsections (4) and (5), do not apply if the person concerned has a reasonable excuse.
Note:	The defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (9A). See subsection 13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
(10)	Where a person is convicted of an offence against this section by virtue of subsection (4) or (5) in relation to the admission of a person as an in-patient in a hospital, the court may, in addition to imposing a penalty in respect of the offence, order the person to pay to the Commonwealth an amount equal to the sum of any amounts paid by the Commonwealth in respect of treatment provided under this Part for the in-patient of the private hospital concerned.
93E Prohibited practices in relation to the rendering of pathology services
(1)	An approved pathology practitioner who accedes to a request from a practitioner as defined in subsection 93D(1) (in this subsection referred to as the requesting practitioner) to provide pathology services to an eligible person, being services that the person is eligible to be provided with under this Part, shall not make a payment, directly or indirectly, to the requesting practitioner for the services provided by the requesting practitioner to that eligible person in connection with the making of that request and, in particular, shall not make a payment, directly or indirectly, to the requesting practitioner in respect of any use of the staff of the requesting practitioner to achieve the result of taking pathology specimens from that eligible person.
(2)	Where an approved pathology practitioner has entered into an arrangement with a practitioner as defined in subsection 93D(1) under which there are shared between the 2 practitioners the cost to them of employing staff or of buying, renting or maintaining items of equipment, whether or not the arrangement involves the payment of money or the provision of other consideration, the approved pathology practitioner shall not, during the period when that arrangement is in force, accede to a request from that other practitioner to provide pathology services to an eligible person, being services that the eligible person is eligible to be provided with under this Part.
(3)	An approved pathology practitioner shall not provide, at the premises of a practitioner as defined in subsection 93D(1), nursing or other staff to take pathology specimens for use in rendering pathology services from eligible persons who are eligible to be provided with those services under this Part, whether the staff is stationed on those premises full-time or part-time or visits those premises from time to time.
(4)	Where:
(a)	there is in force between an approved pathology practitioner and another practitioner, being a practitioner as defined in subsection 93D(1), an arrangement under which:
(i)	the 2 practitioners share a particular space in a building; or
(ii)	one practitioner provides space in a building for the use or occupation of the other practitioner or permits the other practitioner to use or occupy space in a building; and
(b)	the charges payable under the arrangement are not charges fixed at normal commercial rates;
the approved pathology practitioner shall not, during the period when that arrangement is in force, accede to a request from the other practitioner to provide pathology services to an eligible person who is eligible to be provided with those services under this Part.
(5)	A person who contravenes subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4) commits an offence against this section.
(6)	Where an offence against this section is committed by a corporation, an officer of the corporation who intentionally authorised or permitted the commission of the offence commits an offence against this section.
(8)	A person who is convicted of an offence against this section is punishable by imprisonment for a period not exceeding 5 years or a fine not exceeding 100 penalty units.
(9)	In this section:
approved pathology practitioner means:
(a)	an approved pathology practitioner (within the meaning of the Health Insurance Act 1973); or
(b)	an approved pathology authority (within the meaning of that Act) (other than a State, the Northern Territory or a public authority within the meaning of section 23DF of that Act).
eligible person, officer and pathology service have the same respective meanings as they have in section 93D.
93F Offences against 2 or more provisions
(1)	Where the act or omission of a person is an offence against a provision of this Act and is also an offence against another provision of this Act, the person may be prosecuted and convicted for either of those offences, but the person is not liable to be punished more than once in respect of the same act or omission.
(2)	A reference in subsection (1) to an offence against a provision of this Act includes a reference to an offence against:
(a)	section 6 of the Crimes Act 1914; or
(b)	section 11.1, 11.4 or 11.5 of the Criminal Code;
that relates to an offence against a provision of this Act.
93G Statements inadmissible in evidence
(1)	Where a person who has provided treatment for an eligible person under this Part (in this subsection referred to as the provider of the treatment) has been counselled by an officer of the Department with respect to the provision of treatment to eligible persons under this Part, a statement made by the provider of the treatment in the course of the counselling is inadmissible as evidence against the provider of the treatment in proceedings for the prosecution of the provider of the treatment for a relevant offence unless:
(a)	the provider of the treatment has consented to the admission of the statement as evidence in the proceedings; or
(b)	evidence of the statement is adduced to refute evidence of another statement made by the provider of the treatment in the course of being so counselled, where evidence of that other statement has been admitted in the proceedings on behalf of the provider of the treatment.
(2)	In subsection (1), relevant offence means:
(a)	an offence against section 93B, 93C, 93D or 93E of this Act; or
(b)	an offence against:
(i)	section 6 of the Crimes Act 1914; or
(ii)	section 11.1, 11.4 or 11.5 of the Criminal Code;
that relates to an offence referred to in paragraph (a) of this subsection.
93H Recovery of amounts paid because of false statements
(1)	Where, as a result of the making of a false or misleading statement, an amount paid, purportedly by way of payment for treatment provided under this Part for an eligible person, exceeds the amount (if any) that should have been paid, the amount of the excess is recoverable as a debt due to the Commonwealth from the person by or on behalf of whom the statement was made, or from the estate of that person, whether or not the amount was paid to that person and whether or not any person has been convicted of an offence in relation to the making of the statement.
(2)	Where:
(a)	an amount (in this subsection referred to as the principal sum) is recoverable as a debt due to the Commonwealth from a person, or from an estate, under subsection (1);
(b)	the Commission has served a notice on the person, or on the estate, as the case may be, claiming the amount as a debt due to the Commonwealth; and
(c)	either of the following conditions is satisfied:
(i)	an arrangement has been entered into between the Commission and the person or the estate, as the case may be, within a period of 3 months following the service of the notice or such longer period as the Commission allows (which period or longer period is in this section referred to as the relevant period), being an arrangement for the repayment of the principal sum, and default has been made (whether before or after the end of the relevant period) in the payment of an amount as required by the arrangement; or
(ii)	at the end of the relevant period, such an arrangement has not been entered into and all or part of the principal sum remains unpaid;
then, from the day after the end of the relevant period, interest, at the rate prescribed from time to time for the purposes of subsection 129AC(2) of the Health Insurance Act 1973, becomes payable on so much of the principal sum as from time to time remains unpaid, and the interest so payable is recoverable as a debt due to the Commonwealth from the person, or from the estate, as the case may be.
(3)	Notwithstanding subsection (2), in any proceedings instituted by the Commonwealth for the recovery of an amount due under subsection (2), the court may order that the interest payable under that subsection shall be, and shall be deemed to have been, so payable from a day later than the day referred to in that subsection.
(4)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, where an amount paid to a person, purportedly by way of payment for treatment provided for an eligible person under this Part, exceeds the amount (if any) that should have been paid to that person (which excess is referred to in this subsection as the excess amount), the Commission may, if the person so agrees, reduce the amount of any payment that subsequently becomes payable to that person under this Act by an amount not exceeding the amount by which the sum of the excess amount and any excess amounts previously paid to that person is greater than the sum of any amounts recovered by the Commission by one or more previous applications of this subsection or under subsection (1).
93J Prosecution of offences
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), an offence against section 93C, 93D or 93E is an indictable offence.
(2)	A court of summary jurisdiction may hear and determine proceedings in respect of an offence referred to in subsection (1) if the court is satisfied that it is proper to do so and the defendant and the prosecutor consent.
(3)	Where, in accordance with subsection (2), a court of summary jurisdiction convicts a person of an offence referred to in that subsection, the penalty that the court may impose is imprisonment for a period not exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding 10 penalty units.
Part VA—Extension of Repatriation Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme
	Division 1 — Definitions
93K Definitions
(1)	In this Part:
pharmaceutical benefits has the same meaning as in subsection 91(9).
(2)	In this Part, a person is the holder of a pharmaceutical benefits card under this Part while there is in force under section 93X a determination that the person is entitled to a pharmaceutical benefits card under this Part.
	Division 2 — Pharmaceutical benefits may be obtained
93L Certain veterans and mariners may obtain pharmaceutical benefits
(1)	If a Commonwealth veteran, allied veteran or allied mariner is the holder of a pharmaceutical benefits card under this Part, then the veteran or mariner may obtain pharmaceutical benefits under the Repatriation Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme as if the veteran or mariner were a person who is eligible to be provided with treatment under Part V.
Note 1:	For the meanings of Commonwealth veteran, allied veteran and allied mariner, see subsection 5C(1).
Note 2:	Apart from enabling the obtaining of pharmaceutical benefits, subsection 93L(1) has the effect of applying provisions of Part V such as section 93 (Recovery of costs of treatment), section 93B (False statements relating to treatment) and section 93C (Knowingly making false statements relating to treatment) to the veteran or mariner in respect of pharmaceutical benefits provided to the veteran or mariner.
(2)	Nothing in this section entitles a Commonwealth veteran, allied veteran or allied mariner to be provided with a form of treatment, other than pharmaceutical benefits, under Part V.
	Division 3 — Eligibility for, and entitlement to, pharmaceutical benefits card
Subdivision A—Eligibility
93M Who is eligible?
(1)	A Commonwealth veteran, an allied veteran or an allied mariner is eligible for a pharmaceutical benefits card under this Part if the veteran or mariner:
(a)	is 70 years of age or older; and
(b)	has rendered qualifying service during a period covered by paragraph (a) or (b) of the definition of period of hostilities in subsection 5B(1); and
(c)	has been an Australian resident for a continuous period of at least 10 years.
Note 1:	For qualifying service see section 7A and Division II of Part III.
Note 2:	For Australian resident see section 5G.
(2)	If:
(a)	a Commonwealth veteran, allied veteran or allied mariner has been an Australian resident during more than one period; and
(b)	the longer or longest of those periods is less than 10 years but is not less than 5 years; and
(c)	the aggregate of those periods is more than 10 years;
then, in the application of paragraph (1)(c) to the veteran or mariner, the period of 10 years specified in that paragraph is to be reduced by a period equal to the period by which the aggregate is more than 10 years.
Subdivision B—Entitlement
93N Entitlement to a pharmaceutical benefits card under this Part
Even though a person is eligible for a pharmaceutical benefits card under this Part, it is only if the person is the holder of a pharmaceutical benefits card under this Part that pharmaceutical benefits under the Repatriation Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme may be provided to the person by the Commonwealth.
Note:	For holder of a pharmaceutical benefits card under this Part see subsection 93K(2).
	Division 4 — Claim for pharmaceutical benefits card under this Part
93P Need for a claim
A person who wants to be granted a pharmaceutical benefits card under this Part must make a proper claim.
Note:	For proper claim see section 93R (form), section 93S (manner of lodgment) and section 93T (residence/presence in Australia).
93Q Who can claim?
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), a claim must be made by:
(a)	the person who wants to be granted a pharmaceutical benefits card under this Part; or
(b)	with the approval of the person—another person on the person’s behalf.
(2)	If the person is unable, because of physical or mental incapacity, to approve another person to make the claim on his or her behalf, the Commission may approve another person to make the claim.
93R Making a claim
(1)	To be a proper claim, the claim must be:
(a)	made in writing; and
(b)	in accordance with a form approved by the Commission; and
(c)	accompanied by any evidence available to the claimant that the claimant considers may be relevant to the claim; and
(d)	lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(2)	A claim lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
93T Claimant must be an Australian resident and in Australia
A claim is not a proper claim unless the person making the claim, or on whose behalf the claim is being made, is:
(a)	an Australian resident; and
(b)	in Australia;
on the day on which the claim is lodged.
Note:	For Australian resident see section 5G.
93U Claim may be withdrawn
(1)	A claimant for a pharmaceutical benefits card under this Part or a person on behalf of a claimant may withdraw a claim that has not been determined.
(2)	A claim that is withdrawn is taken to have not been made.
(3)	A withdrawal may be made either orally or by document lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
Oral withdrawal of a claim
(5)	An oral withdrawal of a claim must be made to a person in an office of the Department in Australia.
Acknowledgment of oral withdrawal of a claim
(6)	As soon as practicable after receiving an oral withdrawal of a claim, the Secretary must give the claimant an acknowledgment notice in writing stating that:
(a)	an oral withdrawal of the claim was made; and
(b)	the claimant, or a person on behalf of the claimant, may, within 28 days from the day the acknowledgment notice is given, request the Secretary to treat the withdrawal as if it had not been made.
Reactivating the withdrawn claim
(7)	If, within 28 days from the day on which the Secretary gave the acknowledgment notice, a claimant, or a person on behalf of a claimant, requests the Secretary to treat the oral withdrawal of the claim as if it had not been made, the oral withdrawal is taken not to have been made.
Note:	A request made under paragraph (6)(b) has the effect of reactivating the claim. In particular, the commencement day of the claim stays the same.
	Division 5 — Investigation of claim
93V Secretary to investigate claim and submit it to Commission
(1)	If a person makes a proper claim for a pharmaceutical benefits card under this Part, the Secretary must investigate the matters to which the claim relates.
(2)	When the investigation is completed, the Secretary must submit the claim to the Commission for consideration and determination.
(3)	When the claim is submitted to the Commission it must be accompanied by:
(a)	any evidence supplied by the claimant in support of the claim; and
(b)	any documents or other evidence obtained by the Department in the course of the investigation that are relevant to the claim; and
(c)	any other documents or other evidence under the control of the Department that are relevant to the claim.
	Division 6 — Consideration and determination of claim
93W Duties of Commission in relation to claim
(1)	When the claim is submitted to the Commission, the Commission must consider all matters that are, in the Commission’s opinion, relevant to the claim and must then determine the claim.
(2)	In considering the claim, the Commission must:
(a)	satisfy itself with respect to; or
(b)	determine;
(as the case requires) all matters relevant to the determination of the claim.
(3)	Without limiting subsection (1), the Commission, in considering the claim, must consider:
(a)	the evidence submitted with the claim under section 93V; and
(b)	any further evidence subsequently submitted to the Commission in relation to the claim.
Note:	A claimant may apply to the Commission for review of a determination made under this section (see section 93Z).
93X Entitlement determination
The Commission must determine that a person is entitled to a pharmaceutical benefits card under this Part if the Commission is satisfied that the person is eligible for the card.
93Y Date of effect of determination
(1)	A determination under section 93X takes effect:
(a)	if the determination is made before 1 January 2002—on 1 January 2002 or on such later day as is specified in the determination; or
(b)	if the determination is made after 1 January 2002—on the day that the determination is made or on such later day or earlier day as is specified in the determination.
(2)	For the purposes of paragraph (1)(b), a day before 1 January 2002 may not be specified as an earlier day.
	Division 7 — Review of decisions
93Z Review of certain decisions
A claimant who is dissatisfied with a decision of the Commission in relation to a claim for a pharmaceutical benefits card under this Part may request the Commission to review the decision.
93ZA Application for review
(1)	A request for review of a decision under section 93Z must:
(a)	be made within 3 months after the person seeking review was notified of the decision; and
(b)	set out the grounds on which the request is made; and
(c)	be in writing; and
(d)	be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(1A)	A request lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
(2)	If a request for review of a decision is made in accordance with subsection (1), the Commission must review the decision.
93ZB Commission’s powers where request for review
(1)	If the Commission reviews a decision under this Division, the Commission must affirm the decision or set it aside.
(2)	If the Commission sets the decision aside it must substitute a new decision in accordance with this Act.
Note:	For the Commission’s evidence gathering powers see section 93ZF.
93ZC Date of effect of certain review decisions
(1)	If the Commission sets aside a decision and substitutes for it a decision that a person is entitled to a pharmaceutical benefits card under this Part, the substituted decision takes effect from a date specified by the Commission.
(2)	The date specified by the Commission must not be earlier than the date from which, had the Commission determined that the person is entitled to a pharmaceutical benefits card under this Part, such a determination could have taken effect.
93ZD Commission must make written record of review decision and reasons
(1)	When the Commission reviews a decision under this Division it must make a written record of its decision upon review.
(2)	The written record must include a statement that:
(a)	sets out the Commission’s findings on material questions of fact; and
(b)	refers to the evidence or other material on which those findings are based; and
(c)	provides reasons for the Commission’s decision.
93ZE Person who requested review to be notified of decision
(1)	If the Commission affirms or sets aside a decision under this Division, it must give the person who requested the review of the decision:
(a)	a copy of the Commission’s decision; and
(b)	subject to subsection (2), a copy of the statement about the decision referred to in subsection 93ZD(2); and
(c)	if the person has a right to apply to the Administrative Review Tribunal for a review of the Commission’s decision—a statement giving the person particulars of that right.
(2)	If the statement referred to in paragraph (1)(b) contains any matter that, in the opinion of the Commission:
(a)	is of a confidential nature; or
(b)	might, if communicated to the person who requested review, be prejudicial to his or her physical or mental health or well-being;
then the copy given to the person must not contain that matter.
93ZF Powers of Commission to gather evidence
(1)	The Commission or the Commission’s delegate may, in reviewing a decision under this Division:
(a)	take evidence on oath or affirmation for the purposes of the review; and
(b)	adjourn a hearing of the review from time to time.
(2)	The presiding member of the Commission or the Commission’s delegate may, for the purposes of the review:
(a)	summon a person to appear at a hearing of the review to give evidence and to produce such documents (if any) as are referred to in the summons; and
(b)	require a person appearing at a hearing of the review for the purpose of giving evidence either to take an oath or to make an affirmation; and
(c)	administer an oath or affirmation to a person so appearing.
(3)	The person who applied for the review under this Division is a competent and compellable witness upon the hearing of the review.
(4)	The oath or affirmation to be taken or made by a person for the purposes of this section is an oath or affirmation that the evidence that the person will give will be true.
(5)	The Commission’s power under paragraph (1)(a) to take evidence on oath or affirmation:
(a)	may be exercised on behalf of the Commission by:
(i)	the presiding member or the Commission’s delegate; or
(ii)	by another person (whether a member or not) authorised by the presiding member or the Commission’s delegate; and
(b)	may be exercised within or outside Australia; and
(c)	must be exercised subject to any limitations specified by the Commission.
(6)	Where a person is authorised under subparagraph (5)(a)(ii) to take evidence for the purposes of a review, the person has:
(a)	all the powers of the Commission under subsection (1); and
(b)	all the powers of the presiding member under subsection (2);
for the purposes of taking that evidence.
(7)	In this section:
Commission’s delegate means a person to whom the Commission has delegated its powers under section 93ZA and who is conducting the review in question.
93ZG Withdrawal of request for review
(1)	A person who requests a review under section 93Z may withdraw the request at any time before it is determined by the Commission.
(2)	To withdraw the request, the person must give written notice of withdrawal to the Secretary and the notice must be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia.
(3)	Subject to section 93ZA, a person who withdraws a request for review may subsequently make another request for review of the same decision.
Note:	Section 93ZA provides that a person who wants to request a review of a decision must do so within 3 months after the person has received notice of the decision.
Part VI—Allowances and other benefits
	Division 1 — Preliminary
94 Interpretation
In this Part, unless the contrary intention appears:
(a)	a reference to a hospital or other institution shall be read as including a reference to a home, a hostel, a medical centre, an out-patient clinic and a rehabilitation or training establishment; and
(b)	treatment has the same meaning as it has in Part V.
96 Application
(1)	Without prejudice to its effect apart from this section, this Part has effect in relation to a person who is, or has been:
(a)	a member of the Forces as defined by subsection 68(1); or
(b)	a member of a Peacekeeping Force as defined by subsection 68(1);
and in relation to a dependant of such a person who has died, in like manner as it has effect in relation to a veteran and a dependant of a deceased veteran, respectively.
(2)	For the purpose only of applying this Part as provided in subsection (1):
(a)	a reference in this Part to a veteran shall be read as a reference to a member of the Forces, or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, as defined by subsection 68(1);
(b)	a reference in this Part to a war-caused injury shall be read as a reference to a defence-caused injury;
(c)	a reference in this Part to a war-caused disease shall be read as a reference to a defence-caused disease;
(d)	a reference in this Part to the death of a veteran that was war-caused shall be read as a reference to the death of a member of the Forces, or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, as defined by subsection 68(1), that was defence-caused;
(e)	a reference in this Part to a pension under Part II shall be read as a reference to a pension under Part IV;
(f)	the references in subsections 108(8) and (9) to section 26 shall be read as references to section 26 (in its application to pensions under Part IV) or subsection 74(8); and
(g)	a reference in this Part to a claim or application under Part II shall be read as a reference to a claim or application made under section 14 or 15, in its application to pensions under Part IV.
	Division 2 — Eligibility for allowances and other benefits
97 Clothing allowance
(1)	Where a veteran is being paid a pension under Part II in respect of incapacity from a war-caused injury or a war-caused disease of a kind described in column 1 of the following table, the Commission may grant to the veteran an allowance, called clothing allowance, at the rate specified in column 2 of that table opposite to the description of that kind of incapacity in column 1:
Column 1
Column 2
Kinds of incapacity
Rate per fortnight $
1.	One leg and one arm amputated
7.20
2.	One leg or one arm amputated
3.30
3.	Both legs or both arms amputated
4.60
4.	One leg amputated, causing essential hip disarticulation
4.60
5.	Blinded in both eyes
3.30
(2)	Where the Commission is satisfied that it is necessary for a veteran who is being paid a clothing allowance under subsection (1) by reason of a kind of incapacity described in item 2, 3 or 4 (in column 1) of the table in subsection (1) to use a crutch or crutches in addition to any artificial aid, that subsection has effect as if the rate specified in that item (in column 2) were an amount per fortnight equal to the amount specified in item 1 (in column 2) of that table.
(3)	Where:
(a)	a veteran is being paid a pension under Part II in respect of incapacity from a war-caused injury or a war-caused disease of a kind other than a kind described in column 1 of the table in subsection (1); and
(b)	exceptional wear and tear, or exceptional damage, to the clothing of the veteran occurs by reason of the kind of incapacity from which the veteran is suffering;
the Commission may grant to the veteran a clothing allowance at such rate, not exceeding an amount per fortnight equal to the amount specified in item 2 (in column 2) of that table, as the Commission deems fit.
(4)	Where a veteran is granted a clothing allowance under subsection (1) and is also granted a clothing allowance under subsection (3), clothing allowance shall be paid to the veteran at a rate per fortnight equal to the sum of:
(a)	the rate per fortnight at which the allowance was granted under subsection (1); and
(b)	the rate per fortnight at which the allowance was granted under subsection (3).
(5)	For the purpose of this section:
(a)	amputation of a hand of a veteran shall be treated as amputation of an arm of the veteran; and
(b)	amputation of a foot of a veteran shall be treated as amputation of a leg of the veteran.
(6)	Clothing allowance may be paid to a veteran by fortnightly instalments, or in such other manner as is determined by the Commission, but the amount, or sum of the amounts, of clothing allowance paid to a veteran in any period of 12 consecutive months shall not exceed an amount equal to the sum of 26 fortnightly instalments.
98 Attendant allowance
(1)	Where a veteran is being paid a pension under Part II in respect of incapacity from a war-caused injury or a war-caused disease of a kind described in column 1 of the following table, the Commission may grant to the veteran an allowance, called attendant allowance, at the rate specified in column 2 of that table opposite to the description of that kind of incapacity in column 1, for or towards the cost of the services of an attendant to assist the veteran:
Column 1
Column 2
Kinds of incapacity
Rate per fortnight $
1.	Blinded in both eyes
84.30
2.	Blinded in both eyes together with total loss of speech or total deafness
168.60
3.	Both arms amputated
168.60
4.	Both legs amputated and one arm amputated
84.30
5.	Both legs amputated at the hip or one leg amputated at the hip and the other leg amputated in the upper third
84.30
(2)	Where:
(a)	a veteran is being paid a pension under Part II in respect of incapacity:
(i)	from a war-caused injury or a war-caused disease affecting the cerebro-spinal system; or
(ii)	from a war-caused injury or a war-caused disease that has caused a condition similar in effect or severity to an injury or disease affecting the cerebro-spinal system; and
(b)	the Commission is of the opinion that the veteran has a need for the services of an attendant to assist the veteran;
the Commission may grant to the veteran an allowance, called attendant allowance, at the rate of an amount per fortnight equal to the amount specified in item 1 (in column 2) of the table in subsection (1), for or towards the cost of the services of an attendant to assist the veteran.
(3)	For the purposes of the application of the table in subsection (1) to and in relation to a veteran, a leg, foot, hand or arm that has been rendered permanently and wholly useless shall be treated as having been amputated.
(4)	Where a veteran is cared for, at public expense, in a hospital or other institution, attendant allowance is not payable to the veteran in respect of the period commencing on the day of the first pension period occurring after the veteran commences to be so cared for and ending on the day on which the veteran ceases to be so cared for.
(4B)	Attendant allowance is not payable to a veteran if carer payment under Part 2.5 of the Social Security Act:
(a)	is payable to a person because the person is caring for the veteran; or
(b)	would be payable to a person because the person is caring for the veteran, apart from:
(i)	the payment being suspended under the social security law; or
(ii)	the rate of the payment being nil because of action taken in relation to the payment under Chapter 5 of the Social Security Act 1991 (about overpayments and debt recovery).
(5)	Where the Commission makes a decision with respect to an application for attendant allowance under this section, section 34 applies to and in relation to the decision in like manner as it applies to and in relation to a decision with respect to a claim for pension in accordance with section 14.
98A Bereavement payment in respect of partnered veterans receiving pensions by way of compensation
(1)	This section applies where a veteran dies if the veteran was, immediately before his or her death:
(a)	a member of a couple; and
(b)	receiving a pension under Part II or IV (other than a pension payable to a person as a dependant of a deceased veteran).
(2)	The widow or widower of the deceased veteran is entitled, in respect of the period of 12 weeks after the deceased veteran’s death, to payments at:
(a)	if the deceased veteran was, immediately before his or her death, in receipt of that pension at a rate under subsection 22(4), 23(4), (5) or (6) or 24(4), (5), (5A) or (6)—the rate at which that pension would have been payable to him or her, if he or she had not died, on the first available pension pay day after the Commission becomes aware of the death; or
(b)	in any other case—the lower of the following:
(i)	the rate at which that pension would have been payable to the deceased veteran, if he or she had not died, on the first available pension pay day after the Commission becomes aware of the death;
(ii)	the general rate in force on that pension pay day.
(3)	Where:
(a)	the widow or widower dies within 12 weeks after the death of the deceased veteran; and
(b)	the Commission has not become aware of the death of the deceased veteran before the death of the widow or widower;
there is payable, to such person as the Commission thinks appropriate, in respect of the deceased veteran, an amount worked out using the formula:
where:
deceased veteran’s amount means:
(a)	if the deceased veteran was, immediately before his or her death, in receipt of the pension covered by paragraph (1)(b) at a rate under subsection 22(4), 23(4), (5) or (6) or 24(4), (5), (5A) or (6)—the amount of that pension that would have been payable to him or her, if he or she had not died, on the first available pension pay day after the death of the widow or the widower; or
(b)	in any other case—the lower of the following:
(i)	the amount of the pension covered by paragraph (1)(b) that would have been payable to the deceased veteran, if he or she had not died, on the first available pension pay day after the death of the widow or the widower;
(ii)	the amount that would have been payable to the deceased veteran, if he or she had not died, on the first available pension pay day after the death of the widow or widower, at the general rate in force on that pension pay day.
(4)	Subsection (2) does not apply:
(a)	if the Commission does not become aware of the veteran’s death until after the death of the widow or widower; or
(b)	in respect of any pension pay day after the death of the widow or widower.
(5)	Where:
(a)	within the period of 12 weeks after the death of a veteran, an amount to which the veteran would have been entitled if he or she had not died has been paid by way of a pension covered by paragraph (1)(b) into an account with a bank; and
(b)	this section applies in relation to the death of the veteran; and
(c)	the bank pays to the widow or widower of the deceased veteran, out of that account, an amount not exceeding the total of the amounts paid as mentioned in paragraph (a);
then, in spite of anything in any other law, the bank is not liable to the Commonwealth, the personal representative of the deceased veteran, or anyone else, for any loss incurred because of the payment of that money to the widow or widower.
(6)	In this section:
first available pension pay day, in relation to the death of a veteran, means the first pension pay day after the Commission becomes aware of the death for which it is practicable to terminate or adjust the payments being made by way of pension covered by paragraph (1)(b) in respect of the deceased veteran.
98AA Bereavement payments in respect of certain single veterans receiving pensions by way of compensation
(1)	The Commission must pay an amount (bereavement payment), worked out in accordance with subsection (2), to the estate of a deceased veteran if:
(a)	immediately before the veteran died, he or she was not a member of a couple; and
(b)	immediately before the veteran died, he or she was being paid a pension under Part II as a veteran to whom subsection 22(4) or section 24 applied; and
(c)	the veteran died in indigent circumstances; and
(d)	an application for the bereavement payment is made in accordance with sections 111 and 112.
(2)	The amount of the bereavement payment is 6 times the amount of the pension that would have been payable to the veteran, if he or she had not died, on the first pension pay day after he or she died.
104 Recreation transport allowance
(1)	Subject to this section, the Commission may grant an allowance, called recreation transport allowance, to a veteran who is suffering an incapacity from a war-caused injury or a war-caused disease of a kind described in column 1 of the following table:
Column 1
Column 2
Description of incapacity
Rate per fortnight $
1.	Both legs amputated above the knees
44.80
2.	Negligible powers of locomotion so as to be capable of moving, with the aid of crutches or walking sticks, for short distances only
44.80
3.	Incapacitated with regard to locomotion to a degree that, in the opinion of the Commission, is similar to the degree of incapacity with regard to locomotion associated with a disability described in item 1 or 2
44.80
4.	Both arms amputated at or above the wrists
22.40
5.	Both legs amputated below the knees
22.40
6.	One leg amputated above the knee and the other below the knee
22.40
7.	One leg amputated above or below the knee and one arm amputated below the elbow
22.40
8.	Blinded in both eyes
22.40
9.	Incapacitated to an extent that, in the opinion of the Commission, is similar in effect or severity to the extent of incapacity associated with a disability described in item 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8
22.40
10.	Incapacitated with regard to locomotion to a degree that, in the opinion of the Commission, is similar in degree to the incapacity with regard to locomotion associated with a disability described in item 5, 6, 7 or 8
22.40
(2)	For the purposes of subsection (1):
(a)	a leg that has been rendered permanently and wholly useless above the knee or below the knee shall be treated as if it had been amputated above the knee or below the knee, as the case may be; and
(b)	an arm that has been rendered permanently and wholly useless at or above the wrist or below the elbow, shall be treated as if it had been amputated at or above the wrist, or below the elbow, as the case may be.
(3)	Recreation transport allowance is payable to a veteran, in respect of the costs incurred by the veteran in travelling for recreational purposes, at the rate specified in column 2 of the table in subsection (1) opposite to the kind of incapacity described in column 1 from which the veteran is suffering.
(4)	Recreation transport allowance is not payable to a veteran under subsection (1):
(a)	in respect of any period during which the veteran is being cared for, at public expense, in a hospital or other institution; or
(b)	if the veteran has participated, or is participating, in the Vehicle Assistance Scheme:
(i)	during the period of 2 years commencing on, and including, the date on which the veteran was first provided with a vehicle under that Scheme;
(ii)	during the period of 2 years commencing on, and including, the date on which a replacement motor vehicle grant was or is made under that Scheme in respect of the veteran;
(iii)	during any period during which there is, under that Scheme, due and payable by the veteran to the Commission the whole or part of an amount equal to the cost to the Commission of providing the veteran with a motor vehicle under that Scheme; or
(iv)	during any other period during which the veteran is, under that Scheme, eligible to be paid an allowance as a contributor towards the running and maintenance of a vehicle provided for the veteran under that Scheme.
(5)	For the purpose of the application of subsection (4), a vehicle provided for a veteran before 22 May 1986 under the scheme known as the “Gift Car Scheme” shall, after the commencement of this subsection, be deemed to have been provided under the Vehicle Assistance Scheme.
105 Vehicle Assistance Scheme
(1)	The Commission may, in writing, determine a scheme for the provision of motor vehicles to veterans eligible under this section to participate in the scheme and for the payment of allowances towards the cost of running and maintaining vehicles so provided.
(5)	A veteran is, subject to subsection (7), eligible to participate in the scheme if the veteran is incapacitated from war-caused injury or war-caused disease by reason of:
(a)	amputation of both legs above the knee;
(b)	amputation of one leg above the knee and, in addition:
(i)	amputation of the other leg at or above the ankle and amputation of one arm at or above the wrist; or
(ii)	amputation of both arms at or above the wrists;
(c)	complete paraplegia resulting in the total loss of voluntary power in both legs to the extent that there is insufficient power for purposeful use for stance or locomotion; or
(d)	a condition that, in the opinion of the Commission, is similar in effect or severity to a condition described in paragraph (a) or (b).
(7)	For the purposes of subsection (5):
(a)	a leg that has been rendered permanently and wholly useless above the knee shall be treated as if it had been amputated above the knee;
(b)	a veteran shall not be taken to be incapacitated by reason of the disability described in paragraph (5)(c) unless the disability is such that surgical or other therapeutic measures are not reasonably capable of restoring power for purposeful use for stance or locomotion.
Determination must be approved by the Minister
(8)	A determination under subsection (1) has no effect unless the Minister has approved it in writing.
(9)	A determination under subsection (1) approved by the Minister and as in force from time to time is the Vehicle Assistance Scheme.
Variation or revocation of Vehicle Assistance Scheme
(10)	The Commission may, by written determination, vary or revoke the Vehicle Assistance Scheme.
(11)	A determination under subsection (10) has no effect unless the Minister has approved it in writing.
Legislative instruments
(12)	A determination under subsection (1) or (10) made by the Commission and approved by the Minister is a legislative instrument made by the Minister on the day on which the determination is approved.
Provision of benefits
(13)	The Commission may provide benefits for veterans referred to in subsection (5) under and in accordance with the provisions of the Vehicle Assistance Scheme.
106 Special assistance
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), the Commission may, in such circumstances, and subject to such conditions (if any), as are prescribed in a legislative instrument made by the Commission for the purposes of this subsection, in its discretion, grant to a veteran, or to a dependant of a veteran or deceased veteran, assistance or benefits of such a kind, and of such an amount or value, as it deems fit in all the circumstances of the case.
(2)	The Commission must not grant assistance or benefits to a person under subsection (1):
(a)	in circumstances in which the person is eligible to be granted an allowance or assistance under another provision of this Act; or
(b)	to a veteran, or a dependant of a veteran or a deceased veteran, if the veteran is only a veteran because of service rendered after the MRCA commencement date.
Note:	The Commission can grant assistance or benefits to veterans who render service after the MRCA commencement date, or to dependants of such veterans (see section 424 of the MRCA).
(3)	A legislative instrument made by the Commission for the purposes of subsection (1) may modify the operation of section 18 of the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024 (when to apply—general rule) as it applies in relation to an application made under the instrument.
108 Loss of earnings allowance
(1)	The Commission may grant an allowance, called loss of earnings allowance, to a person in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(2)	Loss of earnings allowance may be granted to a veteran, in respect of any loss of salary or wages, or loss of earnings on his or her own account from an occupation in which he or she is engaged, suffered by reason of:
(a)	the veteran’s undergoing treatment for incapacity from a war-caused injury or a war-caused disease;
(b)	the veteran’s having to wait for the supply of, or repairs to, an artificial replacement or other surgical aid or appliance necessitated by such an incapacity;
(c)	an investigation of a claim or application made by the veteran under Part II or of a pension granted to the veteran under that Part; or
(d)	the veteran’s undergoing treatment associated with such an investigation;
for the period in respect of which the veteran suffered that loss.
(3)	Where:
(a)	a veteran travels for the purpose of:
(i)	obtaining treatment;
(ii)	restoration of his or her health;
(iii)	being fitted with surgical aids or appliances or artificial replacements;
(iv)	an investigation referred to in paragraph (2)(c); or
(v)	any other matter related to the payment of a pension; and
(b)	the Commission authorizes a person to accompany the veteran as his or her attendant;
loss of earnings allowance may be granted to the attendant, in respect of any loss of salary or wages, or loss of earnings on his or her own account, suffered by reason of having so accompanied the veteran, for the period in respect of which the attendant suffered that loss.
(4)	Where a claim for pension for a veteran or a dependant of a veteran:
(a)	is made by another person, as provided by section 16, on behalf of the veteran or dependant; or
(b)	is prosecuted by a person who is the legal personal representative of the claimant, or by a person approved under section 126, following the death of the claimant;
loss of earnings allowance may be granted to the person, in respect of any loss of salary or wages, or loss of earnings on his or her own account, suffered by reason of an investigation under section 17 of the claim for the period in respect of which the person suffered that loss.
(5)	Subject to subsection (6), where, in any year, a veteran who is an employee of another person:
(a)	was granted leave of absence on account of illness for a period in respect of which the veteran was absent from his or her employment for a reason referred to in paragraph (2)(a), (b), (c) or (d);
(b)	was, during a subsequent period of that year, absent from his or her employment by reason of:
(i)	any illness or disease; or
(ii)	undergoing treatment related to any illness or disease;
other than a war-caused illness or a war-caused disease; and
(c)	has incurred loss of salary or wages as a result of absence from his or her employment referred to in paragraph (b) of this subsection;
loss of earnings allowance may be granted to the veteran, in respect of that loss of salary or wages, for the period in respect of which the veteran suffered that loss.
(6)	Where, in a year, the period, or aggregate of the periods, for which loss of earnings allowance is payable to a veteran by virtue of subsection (5) has equalled:
(a)	the period, or aggregate of the periods, referred to in paragraph (5)(a) for which the veteran has been absent from his or her employment in that year; or
(b)	a period equal to the period credited, or notionally credited, in respect of the veteran for that year, under the terms and conditions of his or her employment, by way of sick leave credit (however described);
whichever is the less, loss of earnings allowance is not payable to the veteran by virtue of subsection (5) in respect of any part of the remainder of that year.
(7)	Loss of earnings allowance is not payable to a person under this section in respect of any period in respect of which the person is paid pension under Part II at the rate specified in subsection 24(4).
(8)	The amount of loss of earnings allowance payable to a veteran by virtue of subsection (2) or (5) in respect of loss of salary or wages, or of earnings on his or her own account, (in this subsection referred to as the relevant loss of remuneration) suffered by the veteran in respect of a period (in this subsection referred to as the relevant period) is:
(a)	an amount equal to:
(i)	unless subparagraph (ii) or (iii) applies—the amount of pension that would be payable to the veteran in respect of the relevant period if the veteran were a veteran to whom section 24 applied and the veteran’s pension were required to be calculated at the rate specified in subsection 24(4) (in this subsection that amount of pension is referred to as the maximum amount in respect of the relevant period);
(ii)	if the veteran is in receipt of a pension under Part II—the amount by which the maximum amount in respect of the relevant period exceeds the amount of pension under Part II that is payable to the veteran in respect of the relevant period; or
(iii)	if the veteran is not in receipt of a pension under Part II but would be in receipt of such a pension but for the provisions of section 26, 30C or 30D or is in receipt of a pension under Part II that has been reduced in accordance with the provisions of that section—the amount by which the maximum amount in respect of the relevant period exceeds the amount of pension under Part II that would be payable to the veteran in respect of the relevant period if section 26, 30C or 30D, as the case requires, were omitted from this Act; or
(b)	an amount equal to the amount that the veteran would have earned, or could reasonably be expected to have earned, from the occupation referred to in subsection (2) of this section or from the employment referred to in subsection (5) of this section, as the case may be, in respect of the relevant period by way of salary or wages or of earnings on his or her own account less an amount equal to the sum of:
(i)	the amount (if any) earned by the veteran from that occupation or employment, or from any other occupation or employment, in respect of the relevant period by way of salary or wages or earnings on his or her own account;
(ii)	the amount (if any) that the veteran receives, or is entitled to receive, in respect of the relevant period, by way of compensation for the relevant loss of remuneration, under a law of the Commonwealth, a State, a Territory or a country other than Australia that makes provision for the payment of compensation or other benefits to persons in respect of incapacities arising out of, or in the course of, employment or caused by, or arising out of, the use of motor vehicles;
(iii)	the amount (if any) that the veteran receives, or is entitled to receive, from his or her employer by way of gratuity or other payment in respect of the relevant loss of remuneration suffered by the veteran in respect of the relevant period; and
(iv)	the amount (if any) that the veteran receives, or is entitled to receive, in respect of the relevant loss of remuneration suffered by the veteran in respect of the relevant period, under a contract, arrangement or agreement (including a contract of insurance), whether or not the veteran is a party to the contract, arrangement or agreement, but not being an amount of a kind referred to in subparagraph (ii) or (iii);
whichever is the lesser amount.
(9)	The amount of loss of earnings allowance payable to a person by virtue of subsection (3) in respect of a period is:
(a)	the amount that would be payable to the person in respect of the period in accordance with paragraph (8)(b) if the person were a veteran who was entitled to be paid that allowance by virtue of subsection (2); or
(b)	the amount that would be payable to the person in respect of the period by way of pension under Part II if the person were eligible to be paid a pension under that Part, section 24 applied to the person and section 26, 30C or 30D did not apply to the person;
whichever is the lesser amount.
(10)	The amount of loss of earnings allowance payable to a person by virtue of subsection (4) in respect of a period is such amount as the Commission considers reasonable in all the circumstances but not exceeding the amount that the person would have earned, or could reasonably be expected to have earned, in the period by way of salary and wages, or earnings on his or her own account.
(11)	Loss of earnings allowance is not payable to a person under this section unless the person furnishes to the Commission such information (including certificates of medical practitioners or other persons) as is required by the regulations to be so furnished.
(12)	In this section:
leave of absence on account of illness, in relation to a veteran who is an employee of another person, means leave of absence from the veteran’s employment granted to the veteran without loss of earnings by reason of any illness or incapacity or treatment provided for an illness or incapacity.
year, in relation to a veteran who is an employee of another person, means the period of 12 months that commenced on the date on which, under his or her terms and conditions of employment, the veteran was last credited, or last notionally credited, with a period by way of sick leave (however described).
Note:	If section 25A applies to a veteran, the rate at which loss of earnings allowance is payable to the veteran is reduced in accordance with that section.
109 Advances on account of loss of earnings allowance
(1)	Where the Commission is satisfied:
(a)	that a person may reasonably be expected to become entitled to be paid loss of earnings allowance under section 108 in respect of a period (in this section called the period of entitlement); and
(b)	that it is, in all the circumstances, appropriate for the person to be paid an advance on account of the loss of earnings allowance that the person is expected to become entitled to be paid in respect of a period (in this section called the period of advance), being the whole or a part of the period of entitlement;
the Commission may authorize payment to the person of an advance accordingly in respect of the period of advance.
(2)	The amount paid to a person by way of advance under subsection (1) in respect of a period of advance, or the aggregate of the amounts so paid to a person in respect of the periods of advance included in a period of entitlement, as the case may be, shall not exceed the amount estimated by the Commission to be the amount of loss of earnings allowance likely to be payable to the person in respect of that period of advance or those periods of advance, as the case may be.
(3)	If the amount of the advance, or the sum of the amounts of advances, paid to a person in relation to a period of entitlement exceeds the amount of loss of earnings allowance that becomes payable to the person in respect of that period of entitlement, the person is liable to pay an amount equal to the excess to the Commonwealth.
	Division 3 — Procedural
111 Application
(1)	Each of the following allowances, payments or benefits is a benefit to which this section applies, namely:
(a)	clothing allowance;
(b)	attendant allowance;
(ba)	bereavement payment under section 98AA;
(e)	recreation transport allowance;
(g)	loss of earnings allowance.
(2)	An application for a benefit to which this section applies:
(a)	shall be in accordance with a form approved by the Commission;
(b)	shall be accompanied by such certificates and other evidence (relevant to the applicant’s entitlement to the benefit) as are required to be furnished by this Act, the regulations or the form of application; and
(c)	is to be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T and is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
Note:	An application may not be made on or after the date of commencement, unless it is for bereavement payment under section 98AA (see section 12AA).
(3)	An application for a benefit to which this section applies may be made:
(a)	by the person eligible to be granted the benefit; or
(b)	with the approval of that person or of the Commission under subsection (4), by another person on behalf of that person.
(4)	Where a person eligible to be granted a benefit to which this section applies is unable, by reason of physical or mental ailment, to approve a person to make an application for that benefit on his or her behalf, the Commission may approve a person to make the application on his or her behalf.
(5)	Where an application for a benefit to which this section applies is made by a person on behalf of another person, the other person on whose behalf the application is made, and not the person making the application on behalf of that other person, shall be treated as the applicant.
(6)	For the purposes of this Division, where:
(a)	a person makes an application in writing for an allowance or benefit to which this section applies, but otherwise than in accordance with a form approved for the purposes of subsection (2); and
(b)	the person subsequently makes an application for the allowance or benefit in accordance with a form so approved:
(i)	at a time when the person had not been notified by the Department, in writing, that it would be necessary to make the application in accordance with a form so approved; or
(ii)	within 3 months after the person had been so notified;
the Commission may treat the application referred to in paragraph (b) as having been received at an office of the Department in Australia on the date on which the application referred to in paragraph (a) was so received.
(7)	An applicant for a benefit to which this section applies may, at any time before the application is determined by the Commission, by notice in writing forwarded to the Commission at an office of the Department in Australia, withdraw the application.
(8)	The withdrawal of an application for a benefit to which this section applies does not prevent the applicant from subsequently making another application for such a benefit.
112 Time for applying for certain benefits
(1A)	An application for bereavement payment under section 98AA in respect of a deceased veteran must be made within 12 months after the death of the veteran.
(2)	An application for loss of earnings allowance for a period in respect of which a person has suffered a loss of salary or wages, or loss of earnings on his or her own account, as set out in subsection 108(2), (3), (4) or (5), shall be made within 12 months after the commencement of that period.
(4)	An application made to the Commission for the grant of:
(aa)	bereavement payment under section 98AA; or
(b)	loss of earnings allowance;
after the expiration of the period applicable to the application by virtue of subsection (1A) or (2), as the case requires, is of no force or effect.
114 Commencement of payment of certain allowances
(1)	Subsection (2) applies to:
(a)	clothing allowance;
(b)	attendant allowance; and
(c)	recreation transport allowance.
(2)	An allowance to which this subsection applies payable to a veteran by reason that the veteran is suffering incapacity from a war-caused injury or a war-caused disease is payable:
(a)	if application for the allowance is made within 3 months after the date on which the determination was made under this Act determining that the injury was a war-caused injury or the disease was a war-caused disease, as the case may be—as from the date on which that determination was made; or
(b)	in any other case—as from the date on which the veteran’s application for the allowance in respect of that war-caused injury or war-caused disease is received at an office of the Department in Australia.
115 Review of decision etc.
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), a person who is dissatisfied with a decision of the Commission in respect of an application for:
(a)	clothing allowance; or
(aa)	bereavement payment under section 98AA; or
(e)	recreation transport allowance; or
(g)	loss of earnings allowance;
may request the Commission, in writing, to review the decision, and, where such a request is duly made, the Commission shall review the decision, or cause the decision to be reviewed by a person to whom the Commission has delegated its powers under this section (not being the person who made the decision).
(1A)	A request under subsection (1) must be lodged with the Commission at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T and is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
(2)	A request under subsection (1) to review a decision of the Commission shall set out particulars of the grounds on which the request is made, and may be made within 3 months after service on the person to whom the decision relates of notice of the decision, but not otherwise.
(3)	Where the Commission reviews a decision under subsection (1), the Commission may affirm or set aside the decision and, if it sets aside the decision, it shall make such other decision as it considers to be in accordance with this Act.
(4)	Where the Commission makes a decision, in substitution for the decision set aside, granting an application for an allowance specified in subsection (1), it may approve payment of the allowance as from a date not earlier than the date as from which the Commission could have approved payment of the allowance if it had made the substituted decision in place of the original decision.
(5)	Sections 57D, 57E and 57F apply to a review under this section in like manner as they apply to a review under Division 16 of Part IIIB and, for the purpose of their application to a review under this section:
(a)	references in sections 57D, 57E and 57F to Division 16 of Part IIIB shall be read as references to this section; and
(b)	references in section 57F to a review shall be read as references to a review under subsection (1) of this section.
Part VIA—Rehabilitation
	Division 1 — Preliminary
115A Definitions
(1)	In this Part, unless the contrary intention appears:
CPI indexation day means:
(a)	for the purposes of section 115D—the day that begins each relevant period within the meaning of that term in section 198; and
(b)	for the purposes of section 115G—a day that is an indexation day for the maximum basic rate under subsection 59B(1).
member of a Peacekeeping Force has the same meaning as in subsection 68(1).
member of the Forces has the same meaning as in subsection 68(1).
transferred VEA rehabilitation program means a rehabilitation program under this Act that:
(a)	on and after the date of commencement, is taken to be an approved rehabilitation program for the purposes of the MRCA because of section 104 of the CTPA; and
(b)	has not ceased under section 53 of the MRCA.
unaffected pension rate means the rate of pension that a veteran would have received if the veteran had not undertaken a transferred VEA rehabilitation program.
unemployment includes:
(a)	retirement from remunerative work; and
(b)	undertaking less than 16 hours of remunerative work in a pension period;
but does not include any period of paid leave.
veteran means:
(a)	a person:
(i)	who is, because of section 7, taken to have rendered eligible war service; or
(ii)	in respect of whom a pension is payable under subsection 13(6); or
(iii)	who satisfies subsection 37(3); or
(b)	a member of the Forces; or
(c)	a member of a Peacekeeping Force.
work and pension income rate of a veteran, in relation to a pension period, has the meaning given by subsections (2) and (3).
Veteran to whom section 23 applies
(2)	If section 115D applies to a veteran because of subsection 115D(1), then the work and pension income rate of the veteran for a pension period is worked out using the following formula:
Veteran to whom section 24 applies
(3)	If section 115D applies to a veteran because of subsection 115D(1A), then the work and pension income rate of the veteran for a pension period is worked out using the following formula:
	Division 2 — Provisions relating to the income of veterans who participate in vocational rehabilitation programs
115C Rate of pension while on program
(1)	Subject to sections 115D and 115G, this section applies while a veteran is undertaking a transferred VEA rehabilitation program.
(2)	If this section applies to a veteran, the rate of pension payable to the veteran is equal to the amount the veteran would receive if the veteran were not undertaking the program.
115D Reduced daily pension amount—pensions under Parts II and IV
Application of section
(1)	This section applies to a veteran if:
(a)	section 23 applies to the veteran; and
(b)	the veteran is engaged in remunerative work of 20 hours or more per week as a result of undertaking a transferred VEA rehabilitation program.
The section sets out how to work out the veteran’s reduced daily pension amount.
Note 1:	This amount is used to work out the rate of pension payable under section 23.
Note 2:	This section does not apply to certain veterans: see subsections (5) and (6).
(1A)	This section also applies to a veteran if:
(a)	section 24 applies to the veteran; and
(b)	the veteran is engaged in remunerative work of more than 8 hours per week as a result of undertaking a transferred VEA rehabilitation program.
The section sets out how to work out the veteran’s reduced daily pension amount.
Note 1:	This amount is used to work out the rate of pension payable under section 24.
Note 2:	This section does not apply to certain veterans: see subsections (5) and (6).
Reduced daily pension amount during the initial period
(2)	A veteran’s reduced daily pension amount for a pension period that occurs within the initial period is worked out using the following formula:
Note 1:	Expressions used in this subsection are defined in subsection (7).
Note 2:	The Commission can increase a reduced daily pension amount under section 115F.
Reduced daily pension amount during the second period
(3)	A veteran’s reduced daily pension amount for a pension period that occurs within the second period is worked out using the following formula:
Note 1:	Expressions used in this subsection are defined in subsection (7).
Note 2:	The Commission can increase a reduced daily pension amount under section 115F.
Reduced daily pension amount 5 years after the initial period
(4)	A veteran’s reduced daily pension amount for a pension period that occurs more than 5 years after the end of the initial period is nil.
Note:	The Commission can increase a reduced daily pension amount under section 115F.
Veteran who is unemployed for at least 2 weeks
(5)	This section does not apply to a veteran who is unemployed for a continuous period of at least 2 weeks in respect of the pension periods within that 2 week period.
Veteran who is blinded in both eyes
(6)	This section does not apply to a veteran for a pension period if the veteran is receiving a pension for the period at the special rate because of subsection 24(3).
Definitions
(7)	In this section:
CPI amount means the amount worked out using the following formula:
daily above general rate for a veteran means the rate worked out using the following formula:
initial period for a veteran means the period:
(a)	that begins on the day after the day the veteran first commenced remunerative work as a result of undertaking a transferred VEA rehabilitation program; and
(b)	that ends immediately before the first CPI indexation day that occurs more than 2 years after that day.
pension rate on commencement for a veteran means the rate of pension under this Act that was payable to the veteran on the day on which the veteran commenced the veteran’s transferred VEA rehabilitation program.
second period means the period:
(a)	that begins immediately after the initial period; and
(b)	runs for 5 years.
taper amount for a veteran means the following amount:
(a)	if the veteran’s average weekly hours are 40 hours or more—zero;
(b)	if subsection (1) applies and the veteran’s average weekly hours are less than 40 hours—the amount worked out using the following formula:
(c)	if subsection (1A) applies and the veteran’s average weekly hours are less than 40 hours—the amount worked out using the following formula:
115E Application for increase in reduced daily pension amount
(1)	This section applies if, because of the application of section 115D in respect of the rate of pension payable to a veteran, the work and pension income rate of the veteran in relation to a pension period is or would be less than the unaffected pension rate for the veteran in relation to that period.
(2)	A veteran to whom this section applies may apply to the Commission to have the reduced daily pension amount under section 115D increased.
(3)	An application must be:
(a)	in writing; and
(b)	in accordance with a form approved by the Commission; and
(c)	accompanied by any relevant documentary evidence in relation to salary, wages and other earnings from remunerative work for the period to which the application relates; and
(d)	lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(4)	An application lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
115F Determination by the Commission
(1)	This section applies if, after considering an application under section 115E, the Commission is satisfied that the rate at which a pension has been, is being or is to be paid, to a veteran resulted, or would result, in a work and pension income rate for the applicant in relation to a pension period that is less or would be less than the unaffected pension rate in relation to that period.
(2)	If this section applies, the Commission may increase in writing the veteran’s reduced daily pension amount under section 115D, for a past, present or future pension period, to the amount that the Commission is satisfied results in the work and pension income rate being equal to the unaffected pension rate.
(3)	A determination takes effect on the day on which the determination is made.
115G Excluded income amount—invalidity service pensions
(1)	The excluded income amount in respect of a veteran for a pension period that occurs within the period (the initial period) that begins on the day after the veteran first commenced remunerative work as a result of undertaking the transferred VEA rehabilitation program and ends immediately before the first CPI indexation day that is more than 2 years after the beginning of the initial period is half of the earnings of the veteran in each pension period.
(2)	The excluded income reduction amount in respect of a veteran for each pension period that occurs within each consecutive 6 month period during the 5 years that begins immediately after the initial period is worked out using the following formula:
where:
no. of 6 month periods means the number of consecutive 6 month periods that have begun in the 5 year period.
earnings means salary, wages or earnings from remunerative work in each pension period.
(2A)	If the veteran does not undertake any remunerative work in a continuous period of at least 6 months:
(a)	in working out the length of the initial period, or the 5-year period mentioned in subsection (2), in relation to the veteran, disregard that continuous period; and
(b)	in doing calculations under subsection (1) or (2) in relation to the veteran, disregard that continuous period.
(3)	This section has effect only for the purposes of working out the amount of a veteran’s invalidity service pension.
(4)	This section is subject to section 46AD (about no double income reductions under this section and section 46AA).
	Division 3 — Recovery of cost of rehabilitation
115H Recovery of cost of rehabilitation
(1)	In this section, compensation, in relation to a person who is undertaking, or has undertaken, a VEA rehabilitation program, means an amount that is by way of compensation or damages, or is, in the opinion of the Commission, in the nature of compensation or damages, in respect of the disease, disability or condition because of which the rehabilitation program is being, or has been, undertaken.
(2)	This section applies if a veteran who is undertaking, or has undertaken, a VEA rehabilitation program:
(a)	has made a claim against another person for compensation, or may be, or may become, entitled to be paid compensation by another person, in relation to the disease, disability or condition because of which the rehabilitation program is being, or has been, undertaken; or
(b)	is entitled, whether because of an order of a court, a settlement of a claim for compensation or otherwise, to be paid compensation by another person; or
(c)	has been paid compensation by another person, whether because of an order of a court, a settlement of a claim for compensation or otherwise.
(3)	A reference in subsection (2) to another person includes a reference to the Commonwealth, a State, a Territory or an authority of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory.
(4)	If this section applies, the Commission may give to the veteran a written notice requiring the veteran to pay for:
(a)	a VEA rehabilitation program or any part of such a program that has been undertaken by the veteran before the day on which the notice was given to the veteran; and
(b)	a VEA rehabilitation program or any part of such a program undertaken at any time on or after the day on which the notice was given to the veteran;
in relation to the disease, disability or condition.
(5)	On being given the notice, the veteran becomes, by force of this section, liable to pay to the Commonwealth an amount equal to the cost, or amounts equal to the sum of the costs, as determined by the Commission, of and incidental to:
(a)	a VEA rehabilitation program or any part of such a program that has been undertaken by the veteran before the day on which the notice was given to the veteran; and
(b)	a VEA rehabilitation program or any part of such a program undertaken at any time on or after the day on which the notice was given to the veteran.
(6)	If the veteran is, under subsection (5), liable to make payment to the Commonwealth for a rehabilitation program provided by the Commission, the Commission may, by written notice given to a person who:
(a)	may be, or may become, liable; or
(b)	is liable;
to pay compensation to, or for the benefit of, the veteran in respect of the disease, disability or condition, inform the person that the veteran is liable to make payment to the Commonwealth for a VEA rehabilitation program, whether undertaken before or after the giving of the notice.
(7)	A reference in subsection (6) to a person includes a reference to an insurer who, under a contract of insurance, is liable to indemnify the person or is liable to pay compensation to, or for the benefit of, the veteran against that liability.
(8)	In this section:
VEA rehabilitation program means:
(a)	a transferred VEA rehabilitation program; or
(b)	a rehabilitation program that:
(i)	was undertaken under this Act before the date of commencement; and
(ii)	is not a transferred VEA rehabilitation program.
115J Where a person receives a notice under subsection 115H(6)
(1)	This section applies to a person if the person has been given a notice under subsection 115H(6).
(2)	If the person:
(a)	is, on being given the notice, liable to pay compensation to, or for the benefit of, the veteran to whom the notice relates in respect of the disease, disability or condition to which the notice relates; or
(b)	becomes, after receiving the notice, so liable to pay compensation; or
the person becomes liable, because of this subsection, to pay to the Commonwealth:
(c)	an amount equal to the cost of the rehabilitation program that the veteran is liable, or may become liable, under subsection 115H(5), to pay; or
(d)	an amount equal to the amount of compensation that the person is liable, or becomes liable, so to pay;
whichever is the less.
(3)	If, before the notice was given to the person, the person paid to, or for the benefit of, the veteran the whole of the compensation that the person was liable to pay in respect of the disease, disability or condition to which the notice relates, the notice has no effect.
(4)	If a person is liable, or becomes liable, to pay an amount to the Commonwealth under subsection (2), the person must not, without the permission of the Commission, pay the compensation, or any part of the compensation, to, or for the benefit of, the veteran.
(5)	Payment to the Commonwealth of an amount under subsection (2) operates, to the extent of the payment:
(a)	as a discharge to the person of his or her liability to pay compensation to the veteran entitled to receive the compensation; and
(b)	as a discharge of the veteran’s liability under subsection 115H(5).
115K Recovery of amount by the Commonwealth
The Commonwealth may recover in a court of competent jurisdiction an amount that a person is liable to pay to the Commonwealth under subsection 115H(5) or 115J(2).
115L Determination of amount of costs of rehabilitation programs
(1)	This section applies if the Commission determines, in writing, the amount of the cost of, or incidental to, a VEA rehabilitation program (within the meaning of section 115H) for a veteran during a specified period in respect of a disease, disability or condition in relation to which a notice has been given under subsection 115H(4).
(2)	The Commission may give a notice to the veteran containing a copy of that determination, or notices to the veteran and the person referred to in subsection 115H(6) containing copies of that determination.
(3)	If the Commission gives a copy of a determination to a veteran or a person under subsection (2), the copy is, for all purposes, prima facie evidence:
(a)	that the copy of the determination set out in the notice is a true copy of the determination of which it purports to be a copy; and
(b)	that the determination was duly made by the Commission; and
(c)	that the amount specified in the determination is the amount which the veteran is liable, by force of subsection 115H(5), to pay to the Commonwealth as the cost of and incidental to the VEA rehabilitation program during the period so specified for and in relation to that disease, disability or condition.
(4)	The giving of a notice, or notices, under subsection (2) does not prevent the making of a further determination or determinations, and the giving by the Commission of a further notice or further notices under that subsection.
Part VIC—Acute support
115S Acute support package
Acute support package
(1)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, make provision for and in relation to the granting of a package (an acute support package) of assistance or benefits of a specified kind to a person:
(a)	who is a veteran; or
(b)	who is or was a related person of a veteran or a deceased veteran;
to assist the person to adjust to challenging life circumstances.
Note 1:	Decisions of the Commission under the instrument are reviewable (see section 345B of the MRCA).
Note 2:	An instrument may not be made under this section on or after the date of commencement (see section 12AA).
Eligibility criteria for an acute support package
(2)	The instrument must provide that a person is not eligible for an acute support package unless the criteria mentioned in subsection (3), (4), (5), (5A) or (6) are satisfied.
(3)	If the person is a veteran, the criteria are as follows:
(a)	the person is under 65 years of age at the time the person’s eligibility for an acute support package is determined;
(b)	the person is receiving, or is eligible to receive, a pension at a rate provided for by section 23, 24 or 25 or a veteran payment;
(c)	the Commission is satisfied that the person, or a related person, is experiencing, or is at risk of experiencing, crisis.
(4)	If the person is a related person of a veteran, the criteria are as follows:
(a)	the veteran is under 65 years of age at the time the person’s eligibility for an acute support package is determined;
(b)	the veteran is receiving, or is eligible to receive, a pension at a rate provided for by section 23, 24 or 25 or a veteran payment;
(c)	the Commission is satisfied that the person is experiencing, or is at risk of experiencing, crisis.
(5)	If the person is a war widow or war widower, the criterion is that the person is under 65 years of age at the time the person’s eligibility for an acute support package is determined.
(5A)	If the person is a parent or step-parent of:
(a)	a deceased veteran; or
(b)	a war widow or war widower in relation to a deceased veteran; or
(c)	another person who was the partner of a deceased veteran;
the criteria are as follows:
(d)	the Commission is satisfied that the person is parenting a child of the deceased veteran;
(e)	at the time the person’s eligibility for an acute support package is determined, the child is under 18 years;
(f)	the Commission is satisfied that the person, or the child, is experiencing, or is at risk of experiencing, crisis.
(6)	If the person was the partner of a veteran, the criteria are as follows:
(a)	the person is under 65 years of age at the time the person’s eligibility for an acute support package is determined;
(b)	at the time the person’s eligibility for the package is determined, either or both of the following apply:
(i)	the person ceased being the veteran’s partner within the previous 12 months;
(ii)	a child of the veteran who is under 18 years lives with the person;
(c)	the Commission is satisfied that the person is experiencing, or is at risk of experiencing, crisis.
Instrument may deal with various matters
(7)	Without limiting subsection (1), the instrument may make provision for and in relation to the following:
(a)	additional eligibility criteria for an acute support package;
(b)	criteria for the granting of assistance or benefits;
(c)	the kinds of assistance or benefits that may be granted, which may include child care, counselling, household assistance, services to build capacity and academic and extra-curricular support for children;
(d)	the conditions on which assistance or benefits are granted;
(e)	limits (whether financial or otherwise) on the provision of assistance or benefits;
(f)	the suspension or cancellation of the provision of assistance or benefits;
(g)	arrangements for the payment of assistance or benefits.
(8)	Without limiting paragraph (7)(a) or (b), the criteria may depend on the Commission being satisfied of one or more specified matters.
Meaning of related person etc.
(9)	For the purposes of this section, a related person of a veteran is:
(a)	any of the following persons:
(i)	the partner of the veteran;
(ii)	a parent or step-parent of the veteran;
(iii)	a parent or step-parent of the partner of the veteran;
(iv)	a grandparent of the veteran;
(v)	a child of the veteran;
(vi)	a child of the partner of the veteran;
(vii)	a grandchild of the veteran;
(viii)	a sibling of the veteran; or
(b)	a person in respect of whom the veteran stands in the position of a parent; or
(c)	a person who stands in the position of a parent to the veteran.
(10)	For the purposes of this section, the partner of a veteran is a person in respect of whom at least one of the following applies:
(a)	if the veteran is a member of the Aboriginal race of Australia or a descendant of Indigenous inhabitants of the Torres Strait Islands—the person is recognised as the veteran’s husband, wife or spouse by the custom prevailing in the group to which the veteran belongs;
(b)	the person is legally married to the veteran;
(c)	a relationship between the person and the veteran (whether the person and the member are the same sex or different sexes) is registered under a law of a State or Territory prescribed for the purposes of section 2E of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 as a kind of relationship prescribed for the purposes of that section;
(d)	the person (whether of the same sex or a different sex to the member):
(i)	is, in the Commission’s opinion, in a de facto relationship with the veteran; and
(ii)	is not an ancestor, descendant, brother, sister, half-brother or half-sister of the veteran.
(11)	The definition of child in subsection 5F(1) does not apply for the purposes of this section.
Part VIIAA—Education entry payment
118AA Eligibility
A person is eligible for an education entry payment under this section if:
(a)	either:
(i)	the person is receiving a partner service pension, an invalidity service pension or income support supplement, and the person has not reached pension age; or
(ii)	the person is receiving a veteran payment, and the person has not reached pension age (within the meaning of subsections 5QB(2), (3), (4) and (5)); and
(c)	the person is qualified, or if he or she were not in receipt of financial supplement under the Student Financial Supplement Scheme constituted by Part 4A of the Student Assistance Act 1973 or established under Chapter 2B of the Social Security Act 1991 would be qualified, to receive pensioner education supplement under the Social Security Act or the Student Assistance Act 1973; and
(d)	either:
(i)	the Commission is satisfied that the person intends to enrol in a full-time or part-time course of education that is the subject of a determination made under section 5D of the Student Assistance Act 1973 by the Minister administering that Act; or
(ii)	the person is enrolled in such a course; and
(e)	the person has not received a payment under this Part for which he or she made a claim in the current calendar year.
118AAB Need for a claim
(1)	A person who wants to be granted an education entry payment must make a claim for the payment:
(a)	in writing; and
(b)	in a form approved by the Commission.
(1A)	A claim under subsection (1) is to be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T and is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
(2)	A claim may be withdrawn at any time before it is determined, either orally or by document lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(2A)	A withdrawal by document lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
(3)	A claim that is withdrawn is taken not to have been made.
118AAC Entitlement to and amount of payment
(1)	An education entry payment is payable to the person if, after considering the claim, the Commission determines that the claim is to be granted.
(2)	The amount of an education entry payment is $208.
118AAD Payment to be refunded
If:
(a)	the Commission determined that a claim for education entry payment was to be granted to a person because the Commission was satisfied that the person intended to enrol in a course referred to in subparagraph 118AA(d)(i); and
(b)	an amount of education entry payment was paid to the person; and
(c)	subsequently the person is not enrolled in the course;
the person must repay to the Commonwealth the amount of the payment.
Part VIIA—Veterans supplement
	Division 1 — Eligibility for veterans supplement
118A Veterans supplement for dependants of deceased veterans or for persons eligible for pharmaceutical benefits
(1)	Subject to this section, a person is eligible for veterans supplement under this section if:
(a)	the person is receiving a pension whose rate is specified under subsection 30(2); or
(b)	but for subsection 13(7), a pension would have been payable to the person at a rate specified under subsection 30(2); or
(c)	the person is eligible for pharmaceutical benefits under the Repatriation Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme.
(2)	A person is not eligible for veterans supplement under this section if:
(a)	the person is receiving a social security payment; or
(b)	the person is receiving a service pension or a veteran payment; or
(c)	the person is a war widow/war widower—pensioner.
Note:	For war widow/war widower—pensioner see section 5Q.
(3)	A person who leaves Australia otherwise than temporarily is not eligible for veterans supplement under this section after the day on which he or she left Australia.
(4)	A person who is temporarily absent from Australia and has been so absent for more than 26 weeks is not eligible for veterans supplement under this section after the first 26 weeks of the absence.
118B Veterans supplement for certain Part II and Part IV pensioners or for World War 1 veterans
(1)	Subject to this section, a person is eligible for veterans supplement under this section if:
(a)	the person is eligible for a pension at a rate specified in subsection 22(4); or
(b)	the person is eligible for a pension at a rate specified in section 24; or
(c)	the person is eligible for a pension, the rate of which is increased under subsection 27(2) by an amount specified in any of items 1 to 8 of the table in subsection 27(1); or
(d)	the person is eligible for a pension at the rate specified in subsection 30(1) and the person is under qualifying age.
Note:	For qualifying age see section 5Q.
(2)	Subject to this section, a person is eligible for veterans supplement under this section if the person is:
(a)	a veteran who rendered eligible war service during World War 1; or
(b)	a Commonwealth veteran who rendered continuous full-time service during World War 1; or
(c)	an allied veteran who rendered continuous full-time service during World War 1.
Note:	For World War 1 see subsections 5B(1) and (3).
(3)	A person is not eligible for veterans supplement under this section if:
(a)	the person is receiving a social security payment; or
(b)	the person is receiving a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment; or
(c)	the person is receiving energy supplement under Part VIIAD of this Act or Part 2.25B of the Social Security Act; or
(d)	the person is receiving MRCA supplement under Division 4 of Part 7 of Chapter 4, or Division 5 of Part 2 of Chapter 5, of the MRCA.
(4)	A person who leaves Australia otherwise than temporarily is not eligible for veterans supplement under this section after the day on which he or she left Australia.
(5)	A person who is temporarily absent from Australia and has been so absent for more than 26 weeks is not eligible for veterans supplement under this section after the first 26 weeks of the absence.
	Division 2 — Rate of veterans supplement
118C Rate of veterans supplement—section 118A
The rate of veterans supplement under section 118A is $6.00 per fortnight.
Note:	The amount specified in this section is adjusted annually in line with CPI increases under section 198F.
118D Rate of veterans supplement—section 118B
The rate of veterans supplement under section 118B is $6.00 per fortnight.
Note:	The amount specified in this section is adjusted annually in line with CPI increases under section 198F.
Part VIIAD—Energy supplement
	Division 1 — Eligibility
118P Eligibility for energy supplement
Person holds a seniors health card
(1)	A person is eligible for energy supplement if:
(a)	the person is the holder of a seniors health card; and
(aa)	the person:
(i)	is in Australia; or
(ii)	is temporarily absent from Australia and has been so for a continuous period not exceeding 6 weeks; and
(b)	the person is not receiving any of the following:
(i)	a service pension;
(ii)	income support supplement;
(iii)	a social security pension or social security benefit;
(iv)	energy supplement under Part 2.25B of the Social Security Act.
(1A)	Subject to subsections (1C), (1E) and (1G), subsection (1) applies to a person on or after the commencement of this subsection only if on 19 September 2016:
(a)	energy supplement was payable to the person under section 118PA; or
(b)	energy supplement was payable to the person under section 1061UA of the Social Security Act 1991.
Note:	For subsection (1) to apply to the person on a day on or after that commencement, the person needs to satisfy paragraphs (1)(a) to (b) on that day.
(1B)	Subject to subsection (1G), if:
(a)	energy supplement was payable to a person under section 118PA, or section 1061UA of the Social Security Act 1991, on 19 September 2016; and
(b)	energy supplement ceases to be payable to the person under either of those sections on or after 20 September 2016;
then subsection (1) of this section does not apply, and never again applies, to the person from:
(c)	if the cessation occurred before the commencement of this subsection—the start of the day this subsection commences; or
(d)	if the cessation occurred on or after the commencement of this subsection—the start of the day of that cessation.
(1C)	If:
(a)	a person was not eligible for energy supplement under subsection (1) on 19 September 2016; and
(b)	on 19 September 2016 the person was receiving an income support payment (within the meaning of the Social Security Act 1991), where energy supplement was used to work out the rate of that payment; and
(c)	on a day (the cessation day) on or after the commencement of this subsection the person ceases to be in receipt of any income support payment (within the meaning of the Social Security Act 1991); and
(d)	on the day before the cessation day the person was receiving an income support payment (within the meaning of the Social Security Act 1991) where energy supplement was used to work out the rate of that payment; and
(e)	the person is required to make a claim for a seniors health card in order for such a card to be granted to the person;
the person can become eligible for energy supplement under subsection (1) only if the person makes a claim for a seniors health card within the period of 6 weeks beginning on the cessation day.
(1D)	Subject to subsection (1G), if:
(a)	as a result of a claim mentioned in subsection (1C), a person becomes the holder of a seniors health card on a day; and
(b)	energy supplement ceases to be payable to the person under section 118PA on or after that day;
then subsection (1) of this section does not apply, and never again applies, to the person from the start of the day of that cessation.
(1E)	If:
(a)	a person was not eligible for energy supplement under subsection (1) on 31 December 2016; and
(b)	on that day, the person was receiving a service pension and an amount of energy supplement was added to the rate of that pension; and
(c)	under subsection 118XA(3), the Commission made a determination under section 118ZG that the person is entitled to a seniors health card;
the person can become eligible for energy supplement under subsection (1) of this section because of being the holder of that card.
(1F)	Subject to subsection (1G), if:
(a)	as mentioned in paragraph (1E)(c), a person becomes the holder of a seniors health card on a day; and
(b)	energy supplement ceases to be payable to the person under section 118PA on or after that day;
then subsection (1) of this section does not apply, and never again applies, to the person from:
(c)	if the cessation occurred before the commencement of this subsection—the start of the day this subsection commences; or
(d)	if the cessation occurred on or after the commencement of this subsection—the start of the day of that cessation.
(1G)	If:
(a)	on a day on or after 20 September 2016 the person ceases to hold a seniors health card under this Act or the Social Security (Administration) Act 1999; and
(b)	on that day the person receives an income support payment (within the meaning of the Social Security Act 1991) where energy supplement was used to work out the rate of that payment; and
(c)	on a day (the cessation day) on or after the commencement of this subsection the person ceases to be in receipt of any income support payment (within the meaning of the Social Security Act 1991); and
(d)	on the day before the cessation day the person was receiving an income support payment (within the meaning of the Social Security Act 1991) where energy supplement was used to work out the rate of that payment; and
(e)	the person is required to make a claim for a seniors health card in order for such a card to be granted to the person;
the person can become eligible for energy supplement under subsection (1) only if the person makes a claim for a seniors health card within the period of 6 weeks beginning on the cessation day.
Person holds a gold card
(2)	A person is eligible for energy supplement if:
(a)	the person is the holder of a gold card; and
(b)	the person has reached qualifying age; and
(c)	the person:
(i)	is in Australia; or
(ii)	is temporarily absent from Australia and has been so for a continuous period not exceeding 6 weeks; and
(d)	the person is not receiving any of the following:
(i)	a service pension;
(ii)	income support supplement;
(iii)	a social security pension or social security benefit;
(iv)	energy supplement under Part 2.25B of the Social Security Act.
(3)	In this section:
gold card means a card known as the Repatriation Health Card—For All Conditions, that evidences a person’s eligibility, under this Act, the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 2004, the Australian Participants in British Nuclear Tests and British Commonwealth Occupation Force (Treatment) Act 2006 or the Treatment Benefits (Special Access) Act 2019, to be provided with treatment for all injuries or diseases.
Portability
(4)	If:
(a)	on 19 September 2016 energy supplement was payable to a person under section 118PA; and
(b)	either:
(i)	the person is absent from Australia on 19 September 2016 and has been so for a continuous period not exceeding 6 weeks; or
(ii)	the person leaves Australia on a day on or after 20 September 2016 and, on the day before so leaving, energy supplement was payable to the person under section 118PA; and
(c)	the person returns to Australia, where the period of that absence has exceeded 6 weeks but not exceeded 19 weeks; and
(d)	the person is the holder of a seniors health card on the day before the person returns to Australia;
then the person is taken to have been eligible for energy supplement under this section on each day that occurs in the period beginning on the day after the end of that 6-week period of absence and ending at the end of the day before the person returned to Australia.
(5)	Subsection (4) does not limit section 118PB.
Note:	After the person’s period of absence exceeds 6 weeks, there will be no daily rate of energy supplement for the person: see subsection 118PB(2).
118PA When energy supplement is payable
(1)	Energy supplement is payable to a person in relation to each day on which the person is eligible for the supplement.
(2)	However, energy supplement is not payable to the person in relation to a day if:
(a)	before that day:
(i)	the person had elected not to be covered by this Part; and
(ii)	that election had not been withdrawn; or
(b)	subsection 122A(1C) (failing to nominate a bank account) applies to the person.
	Division 2 — Rate of energy supplement
118PB Rate of energy supplement
(1)	If subsection (2) applies to the person on a day, the person’s daily rate of energy supplement, for that day, is 1/364 of the amount worked out using the following table:
Energy supplement
Item
Person’s family situation
Amount of energy supplement
1
Not a member of a couple
$366.60
2
Partnered
$275.60
3
Member of an illness separated couple
$366.60
4
Member of a respite care couple
$366.60
Note:	For member of a couple, partnered, illness separated couple and respite care couple see subsections 5E(1) and (5) and 5R(5) and (6) respectively.
(2)	This subsection applies to a person on a day if on that day the person is residing in Australia and either:
(a)	is in Australia; or
(b)	is temporarily absent from Australia and has been so for a continuous period not exceeding 6 weeks.
	Division 3 — Payment of energy supplement
118PC Payment of energy supplement
(1)	Energy supplement under this Part is to be paid by instalments.
(2)	An instalment of energy supplement is to be paid to a person as soon as is reasonably practicable after the end of an instalment period.
(3)	The amount of the instalment is worked out by:
(a)	working out the person’s amount of energy supplement for each day in the instalment period (using the daily rate of the supplement for that day); and
(b)	adding up the amounts resulting from paragraph (a).
(4)	In this section:
instalment period means a period:
(a)	in relation to each day of which energy supplement is payable to the person; and
Note:	For when energy supplement is payable to the person, see section 118PA.
(b)	that either begins on any 20 March, 20 June, 20 September or 20 December or does not include any such day; and
(c)	that either ends on any 19 March, 19 June, 19 September or 19 December or does not include any such day; and
(d)	that is not included in a longer instalment period.
Part VIIC—Seniors health card
	Division 1 — Eligibility for and entitlement to a seniors health card
Subdivision A—Eligibility
118V Eligibility for seniors health card
(1)	Subject to subsection (4) and sections 118XA and 118XB, a person is eligible for a seniors health card if the person:
(a)	is a veteran; and
(b)	has rendered qualifying service; and
(c)	has reached pension age; and
(d)	is an Australian resident; and
(f)	is not receiving a service pension; and
(fa)	is not receiving a veteran payment; and
(g)	is not receiving a social security pension or benefit; and
(h)	satisfies the seniors health card income test.
Note 1:	For qualifying service see section 7A.
Note 2:	For Australian resident see section 5G.
Note 3:	For seniors health card income test see section 118ZZA.
Note 4:	For pension age see section 5QA.
(1A)	Subject to subsection (4) and sections 118XA and 118XB, a person is eligible for a seniors health card if the person:
(a)	is a war widow or a war widower; and
(b)	has reached qualifying age; and
(c)	is an Australian resident; and
(e)	is not receiving income support supplement; and
(f)	satisfies the seniors health card income test; and
(g)	is not eligible for a seniors health card under subsection (1).
Note 1:	For Australian resident see section 5G.
Note 2:	For seniors health card income test see section 118ZZA.
Note 3:	For war widow and war widower see subsection 5E(1).
Note 4:	For qualifying age see section 5Q.
Partner of person eligible for card under subsection (1)
(2)	Subject to subsection (4) and sections 118XA and 118XB, a person is eligible for a seniors health card if:
(a)	the person is a member of a couple; and
(b)	the person’s partner is eligible for a seniors health card under subsection (1); and
(c)	the person has reached:
(i)	if the person is not a veteran—pension age; or
(ii)	if the person is a veteran—the age that would be the pension age for that person if he or she were not a veteran; and
(d)	the person is an Australian resident; and
(f)	the person is not receiving a service pension; and
(fa)	the person is not receiving a veteran payment; and
(g)	the person is not receiving a social security pension or benefit; and
(h)	the person satisfies the seniors health card income test; and
(i)	the person is not eligible for a seniors health card under subsection (1) or (1A).
Note 1:	For member of couple and partner see section 5E.
Note 3:	For Australian resident see section 5G.
Note 4:	For seniors health card income test see section 118ZZA.
Note 5:	For pension age see section 5QB.
(3)	Subject to subsection (4) and sections 118XA and 118XB, a person is eligible for a seniors health card if:
(a)	the person is:
(i)	the non-illness separated spouse of a person who is receiving an age or invalidity service pension; or
(ii)	the non-illness separated spouse of a person who is eligible for a seniors health card under subsection (1); or
(iii)	a widow or widower of a veteran; and
(b)	the person is eligible for a partner service pension; and
(c)	the person has reached:
(i)	if the person is not a veteran—pension age; or
(ii)	if the person is a veteran—the age that would be the pension age for that person if he or she were not a veteran; and
(d)	the person is an Australian resident; and
(f)	the person is not receiving a service pension; and
(fa)	the person is not receiving a veteran payment; and
(g)	the person is not receiving a social security pension or benefit; and
(h)	the person satisfies the seniors health card income test; and
(i)	the person is not eligible for a seniors health card under subsection (1) or (1A).
Note 1:	For non-illness separated spouse, widow and widower see subsection 5E(1).
Note 2:	For veteran see subsection 5C(1).
Note 3:	For pension age see section 5QB.
Note 4:	For Australian resident see section 5G.
Note 5:	For seniors health card income test see section 118ZZA.
(4)	A person is not eligible for a seniors health card at a particular test time if:
(a)	the person has failed to comply with section 118ZJA in respect of the reference tax year; or
(b)	where the person has made an estimate of taxable income for the reference tax year and the estimate was accepted—the person did not give the Commission a copy of a notice of assessment of the person’s taxable income for that tax year within 12 months after the end of that tax year.
Note:	If a person is eligible for a seniors health card, the Commission must not determine that the person is entitled to the card if the person fails to comply with a request in subsection 128A(3) or (3A) (about provision of tax file numbers).
(5)	In subsection (4):
taxable income, test time and reference tax year have the same meanings as in the Seniors Health Card Income Test Calculator.
Subdivision B—Entitlement
118W Entitlement to a seniors health card
Even though a person is eligible for a seniors health card, it is only if the person is the holder of a seniors health card that benefits and concessions of various kinds relating to the person’s health may be made available to the person by the Commonwealth.
Note 1:	If there is a determination in force that a person is entitled to a seniors health card, the person is the holder of a seniors health card. For holder of a seniors health card see section 5PB.
Note 2:	A person who is the holder of a seniors health card generally has access to concessional pharmaceutical benefits under the National Health Act 1953.
118X Social Security cardholder not entitled
If a person is the holder of a seniors health card within the meaning of the Social Security Act, the person is not entitled to a seniors health card under this Act.
Subdivision C—Modifications of provisions in this Division
118XA Modifications if person’s rate of service pension or income support supplement is nil on 1 January 2017
(1)	This section applies in relation to a person if:
(a)	immediately before 1 January 2017, the person was receiving a service pension or income support supplement; and
(b)	the Commission is satisfied that the rate of that pension or supplement is nil on 1 January 2017 because of the operation of the amendments made by Part 1 of Schedule 3 to the Social Services Legislation Amendment (Fair and Sustainable Pensions) Act 2015.
Seniors health card income test does not apply
(2)	In determining whether the person is eligible for a seniors health card at any time on or after 1 January 2017, paragraphs 118V(1)(h), (1A)(f), (2)(h) and (3)(h) do not apply to the person.
Entitlement to seniors health card
(3)	If the person is eligible for a seniors health card under this Part on 1 January 2017 and section 118X does not prevent the person from being entitled to a seniors health card, the Commission must make a determination under section 118ZG that the person is entitled to a seniors health card.
Note:	The person does not need to make a claim for the card.
(4)	The Commission must make a determination under section 118ZG that the person is entitled to a seniors health card if:
(a)	the person was previously the holder of a seniors health card because of a determination under subsection (3) or this section; and
(b)	the person is not currently the holder of a seniors health card; and
(c)	section 118X does not prevent the person from being entitled to the card; and
(d)	the person is eligible for the card under this Part.
Note 1:	For holder of a seniors health card see section 5PB.
Note 2:	The person does not need to make a claim for the card.
Note 3: 	A person may be issued a seniors health card more than once under this subsection.
118XB Other modifications because of social security law
If section 1061ZJA of the Social Security Act 1991 applies in relation to a person, then, in determining whether the person is eligible for a seniors health card under this Part at any time on or after 1 January 2017, paragraphs 118V(1)(h), (1A)(f), (2)(h) and (3)(h) do not apply to the person.
	Division 2 — Claim for seniors health card
118Y Need for a claim
(1)	A person who wants to be granted a seniors health card must make a proper claim.
Note:	For proper claim see section 118ZA (form), section 118ZB (manner of lodgment) and section 118ZC (residence/presence in Australia).
(2)	However, subsection (1) does not apply to a person if, because of subsection 118XA(3) or (4), the Commission made a determination under section 118ZG that the person is entitled to a seniors health card and the determination is in force.
118Z Who can claim?
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), a claim must be made by:
(a)	the person who wants to be granted a seniors health card; or
(b)	with the approval of the person—another person on the person’s behalf.
(2)	If the person is unable, because of physical or mental incapacity, to approve another person to make the claim on his or her behalf, the Commission may approve another person to make the claim.
118ZA Making a claim
(1)	To be a proper claim, the claim must be:
(a)	made in writing; and
(b)	in accordance with a form approved by the Commission; and
(c)	accompanied by any evidence available to the claimant that the claimant considers may be relevant to the claim; and
(d)	lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(2)	A claim lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
118ZC Claimant must be an Australian resident and in Australia
A claim is not a proper claim unless the person making the claim, or on whose behalf the claim is being made, is:
(a)	an Australian resident; and
(b)	in Australia;
on the day on which the claim is lodged.
Note:	For Australian resident see section 5G.
118ZD Claim may be withdrawn
(1)	A claimant for a seniors health card or a person on behalf of a claimant may withdraw a claim that has not been determined.
(2)	A claim that is withdrawn is taken to have not been made.
(3)	A withdrawal may be made either orally or by document lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(4)	A withdrawal made by lodging a document in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been so made on a day determined under that section.
Oral withdrawal of a claim
(5)	An oral withdrawal of a claim must be made to a person in an office of the Department in Australia.
Acknowledgment of oral withdrawal of a claim
(6)	As soon as practicable after receiving an oral withdrawal of a claim, the Secretary must give the claimant an acknowledgment notice in writing stating that:
(a)	an oral withdrawal of the claim was made; and
(b)	the claimant, or a person on behalf of the claimant, may, within 28 days from the day the acknowledgment notice is given, request the Secretary to treat the withdrawal as if it had not been made.
Reactivating the withdrawn claim
(7)	If, within 28 days from the day on which the Secretary gave the acknowledgment notice, a claimant, or a person on behalf of a claimant, requests the Secretary to treat the oral withdrawal of the claim as if it had not been made, the oral withdrawal is taken not to have been made.
Note:	A request made under paragraph (6)(b) has the effect of reactivating the claim. In particular, the commencement day of the claim stays the same.
	Division 3 — Investigation of claim
118ZE Secretary to investigate claim and submit it to Commission
(1)	If a person makes a proper claim for a seniors health card, the Secretary must investigate the matters to which the claim relates.
(2)	When the investigation is completed, the Secretary must submit the claim to the Commission for consideration and determination.
(3)	When the claim is submitted to the Commission it must be accompanied by:
(a)	any evidence supplied by the claimant in support of the claim; and
(b)	any documents or other evidence obtained by the Department in the course of the investigation that are relevant to the claim; and
(c)	any other documents or other evidence under the control of the Department that are relevant to the claim.
	Division 4 — Consideration and determination of claim
118ZF Duties of Commission in relation to claim
Determination of claim
(1)	When the claim is submitted to the Commission, the Commission must consider all matters that are, in the Commission’s opinion, relevant to the claim and must then determine the claim.
(2)	In considering the claim, the Commission must:
(a)	satisfy itself with respect to; or
(b)	determine;
(as the case requires) all matters relevant to the determination of the claim.
(3)	Without limiting subsection (1), the Commission, in considering the claim, must consider:
(a)	the evidence submitted with the claim under section 118ZE; and
(b)	any further evidence subsequently submitted to the Commission in relation to the claim.
Record of determination and reasons
(4)	When the Commission determines the claim it must make a written record of its determination.
(5)	The Commission must also make a statement in writing about the determination that:
(a)	sets out the Commission’s findings on material questions of fact; and
(b)	refers to the evidence or other material on which those findings are based; and
(c)	provides reasons for the Commission’s determination.
Notification of determination
(6)	As soon as practicable after the Commission determines a claim under subsection (1), the Commission must give the person who made the claim:
(a)	a copy of the record of the Commission’s determination; and
(b)	subject to subsection (7), a copy of the statement about the determination referred to in subsection (5); and
(c)	particulars of the right of the person who made the claim to have the determination reviewed by the Commission.
(7)	If the statement referred to in paragraph (6)(b) contains any matter that, in the opinion of the Commission:
(a)	is of a confidential nature; or
(b)	might, if communicated to the person who made the claim, be prejudicial to his or her physical or mental health or well-being;
the copy given to the person is not to contain that matter.
Note:	A claimant may apply to the Commission for review of a determination made under this section (see section 118ZS).
118ZG Entitlement determination
Subject to section 118X and subsection 128A(2A), the Commission is to determine that a person is entitled to a seniors health card if the Commission is satisfied that the person is eligible for the card.
118ZH Date of effect of determination
A determination under section 118ZG takes effect on the day on which the determination is made or on such later day or earlier day as is specified in the determination.
	Division 5 — Cardholder’s obligations
118ZI Secretary may require notice of the happening of event or a change in circumstances
(1)	The Secretary may give a person who is the holder of a seniors health card a notice that requires the person to inform the Department, or an officer specified in the notice, if:
(a)	a specified event or change of circumstances occurs; or
(b)	the person becomes aware that a specified event or change of circumstances is likely to occur.
Note:	For holder of a seniors health card see section 5PB.
(2)	An event or change of circumstances is not to be specified in a notice under subsection (1) unless the occurrence of the event or change of circumstances might affect whether the person is eligible for the card.
(3)	A notice under subsection (1):
(a)	must be in writing; and
(b)	may be given personally or by post; and
(c)	subject to subsection (3A), must specify how the person is to give the information to the Department or specified officer; and
(d)	must specify the period within which the person is to give the information to the Department or specified officer.
(3A)	A document lodged as a consequence of a notice issued under subsection (1) that requires a person to inform the Department in writing of the occurrence, or likely occurrence, of a specified event or change of circumstances:
(a)	is to be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T; and
(b)	is taken to have been lodged on a day determined under that section.
(4)	The period specified under paragraph (3)(d) must end at least 14 days after:
(a)	the day on which the event or change of circumstances occurs; or
(b)	the day on which the person becomes aware that the event or change of circumstances is likely to occur.
(5)	A person must not fail to comply with a notice under subsection (1).
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 6 months.
(5A)	An offence under subsection (5) is an offence of strict liability.
Note:	For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code.
(5B)	Subsection (5) does not apply if the person has a reasonable excuse.
Note:	The defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (5B). See subsection 13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
(5C)	Subsection (5) does not apply to the extent that the person is not capable of complying with the notice.
Note:	The defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (5C). See subsection 13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
(6)	A person must not, in purported compliance with a notice under subsection (1), knowingly furnish information that is false or misleading in a material particular.
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 12 months.
Note:	Subsections 4B(2) and (3) of the Crimes Act 1914 allow a court to impose an appropriate fine instead of, or in addition to, a term of imprisonment.
(7)	This section extends to:
(a)	acts, omissions, matters and things outside Australia whether or not in a foreign country; and
(b)	all persons irrespective of their nationality or citizenship.
(8)	In this section, officer means a person performing duties, or exercising powers or functions, under or in relation to this Act.
118ZJ Secretary may require particular information relevant to eligibility for seniors health card
(1)	The Secretary may give a person who is the holder of a seniors health card a notice that requires the person to give the Department, or an officer specified in the notice, a statement in writing about a matter that might affect whether the person is eligible for the card.
Note:	For holder of a seniors health card see section 5PB.
(2)	A notice under subsection (1):
(a)	must be in writing; and
(b)	may be given personally or by post; and
(c)	subject to subsection (3A), must specify how the statement is to be given to the Department or specified officer; and
(d)	must specify the period within which the person is to give the statement to the Department or specified officer.
(3)	The period specified under paragraph (2)(d) must end at least 14 days after the day on which the notice is given.
(3A)	A document lodged as a consequence of a notice issued under subsection (1) that requires a person to give the Department a statement about a matter of a kind specified in that subsection:
(a)	is to be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T; and
(b)	is taken to have been lodged on a day determined under that section.
(4)	A statement given in response to a notice under subsection (1) must be in accordance with a form approved by the Commission.
(5)	A person must not fail to comply with a notice under subsection (1).
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 6 months.
(5A)	An offence under subsection (5) is an offence of strict liability.
Note:	For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code.
(5B)	Subsection (5) does not apply if the person has a reasonable excuse.
Note:	The defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (5B). See subsection 13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
(5C)	Subsection (5) does not apply to the extent that the person is not capable of complying with the notice.
Note:	The defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (5C). See subsection 13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
(6)	A person must not, in purported compliance with a notice under subsection (1), knowingly furnish information that is false or misleading in a material particular.
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 12 months.
Note:	Subsections 4B(2) and (3) of the Crimes Act 1914 allow a court to impose an appropriate fine instead of, or in addition to, a term of imprisonment.
(7)	This section extends to:
(a)	acts, omissions, matters and things outside Australia whether or not in a foreign country; and
(b)	all persons irrespective of their nationality or citizenship.
(8)	In this section, officer means a person performing duties, or exercising powers or functions, under or in relation to this Act.
118ZJA When copy of notice of assessment of taxable income to be given to Department
(1)	If a person who is the holder of a seniors health card receives a notice of assessment or amended assessment of his or her taxable income for a particular tax year, the person must, if requested by the Secretary to do so, give a copy of the notice to the Department within 3 months after the day on which the notice was received.
(2)	In this section:
taxable income has the same meaning as in the Seniors Health Card Income Test Calculator.
	Division 6 — Continuation, variation and termination
118ZK Continuing effect of determination
A determination that a person is entitled to a seniors health card continues in effect until:
(a)	the person ceases to be entitled to the card under section 118ZL or 118ZM; or
(b)	a further determination under section 118ZN or 118ZO or subsection 128A(2B) has taken effect.
118ZL Person ceases to be entitled to card automatically—recipient complying with section 118ZI notification obligations
If:
(a)	a person who is the holder of a seniors health card is given a notice under section 118ZI; and
(b)	the notice requires the person to inform the Department or a specified officer of the occurrence of an event or change in circumstances within a specified period (the notification period); and
(c)	the event or change in circumstances occurs; and
(d)	the person informs the Department or specified officer of the occurrence of the event or change in circumstances within the notification period in accordance with the notice; and
(e)	because of the occurrence of the event or change in circumstances, the person ceases to be eligible for the card; and
(f)	a determination is not made that the person ceases to be entitled to the card before the end of the notification period;
the person continues to be entitled to the card until the end of the notification period and the person then ceases to be entitled to the card.
Note:	For holder of a seniors health card see section 5PB.
118ZM Person ceases to be entitled to card automatically—recipient not complying with section 118ZI notification obligations
If:
(a)	a person who is the holder of a seniors health card is given a notice under section 118ZI; and
(b)	the notice requires the person to inform the Department or a specified officer of the occurrence of an event or change in circumstances within a specified period (the notification period); and
(c)	the event or change in circumstances occurs; and
(d)	the person does not inform the Department or specified officer of the occurrence of the event or change in circumstances within the notification period in accordance with the notice; and
(e)	because of the occurrence of the event or the change in circumstances the person ceases to be eligible for the card;
the person ceases to be entitled to the card immediately after the day on which the event or change in circumstances occurs.
Note:	For holder of a seniors health card see section 5PB.
118ZN Determination that a person ceases to be entitled to a seniors health card
(1)	If the Commission is satisfied that a person is, or was, the holder of a seniors health card when the person is not, or was not, eligible for the card, the Commission is to determine that the person ceases to be entitled to the card.
Note 1:	For holder of a seniors health card see section 5PB.
Note 2:	A determination under this section is not necessary in a case where an automatic loss of eligibility is produced by section 118ZL or 118ZM.
Note 3:	For the date of effect of a determination under this section see section 118ZR.
(2)	A determination under subsection (1) must be in writing.
118ZO Person may cease to be entitled to a seniors health card for failure to comply with section 118ZJ notice
(1)	If:
(a)	a person who is the holder of a seniors health card is given a notice under section 118ZJ; and
(b)	the person does not comply with the requirements set out in the notice;
the Commission may determine that the person ceases to be entitled to the card.
Note 1:	For holder of a seniors health card see section 5PB.
Note 2:	This section will not apply in a case where section 118ZN applies.
Note 3:	For the date of effect of a determination under this section see section 118ZR.
(2)	A determination under subsection (1) must be in writing.
118ZP Resumption of entitlement
(1)	If the Commission:
(a)	determines that a person ceases to be entitled to a seniors health card under section 118ZN or 118ZO; and
(b)	reconsiders that decision; and
(c)	becomes satisfied that because of that decision:
(i)	the person was not entitled to a seniors health card when in fact the person was eligible for the card; or
(ii)	the person is not entitled to a seniors health card when in fact the person is eligible for the card;
the Commission is to determine that the person was or is entitled to the card.
(2)	The reconsideration referred to in paragraph (1)(b) might be a reconsideration on a claim under section 118ZS for review or a reconsideration on the Commission’s own initiative.
(3)	A determination under subsection (1) must be in writing.
Note:	For the date of effect of a determination under this section see section 118ZQ.
118ZQ Date of effect of favourable determination
A determination under section 118ZP takes effect on the day on which the determination is made or on such later day or earlier day as is specified in the determination.
118ZR Date of effect of adverse determination
(1)	The day on which a determination under section 118ZN or 118ZO or subsection 128A(2B) (the adverse determination) takes effect is worked out in accordance with this section.
(2)	The adverse determination takes effect on:
(a)	the day on which the determination is made; or
(b)	if another day is specified in the determination—on that day.
(3)	Subject to subsections (4) and (5), the day specified under paragraph (2)(b) must be later than the day on which the determination is made.
Contravention of Act
(4)	If:
(a)	the person’s entitlement to a seniors health card is affected by the adverse determination and the person has contravened a provision of this Act (other than subsection 118ZI(5), 118ZJ(5) or 128(4)); and
(b)	the contravention causes a delay in making the determination;
the day specified under paragraph (2)(b) may be earlier than the day on which the determination is made.
False statement or misrepresentation
(5)	If:
(a)	a person has made a false statement or misrepresentation; and
(b)	because of the false statement or misrepresentation, the person became the holder of a seniors health card when in fact the person was not eligible for the card;
the day specified under paragraph (2)(b) may be earlier than the day on which the determination is made.
	Division 7 — Review of decisions
118ZS Review of certain decisions
(1)	A claimant who is dissatisfied with a decision of the Commission in relation to a claim for a seniors health card may request the Commission to review the decision.
(2)	A person who is dissatisfied with a decision of the Commission that the person ceases to be entitled to a seniors health card may request the Commission to review the decision.
118ZT Application for review
(1)	A request for review of a decision under section 118ZS must:
(a)	be made within 3 months after the person seeking review was notified of the decision; and
(b)	set out the grounds on which the request is made; and
(c)	be in writing; and
(d)	be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(1A)	A request lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
(2)	If a request for review of a decision is made in accordance with subsection (1), the Commission must review the decision.
(3)	If the Commission has delegated its powers under this section to the person who made the decision under review, that person must not review the decision.
118ZU Commission’s powers where request for review
(1)	If the Commission reviews a decision under this Division, the Commission must affirm the decision or set it aside.
(2)	If the Commission sets the decision aside it must, subject to subsection (3), substitute a new decision in accordance with this Act.
(3)	If the decision set aside is a decision that a person ceases to be entitled to a seniors health card, the Commission need not substitute another decision.
Note:	For the Commission’s evidence gathering powers see section 118ZY.
118ZV Date of effect of certain review decisions
(1)	If the Commission sets aside a decision and substitutes for it a decision that a person is entitled to a seniors health card, the substituted decision takes effect from a date specified by the Commission.
(2)	The date specified by the Commission must not be earlier than the date from which, had the Commission determined that the person is entitled to a seniors health card, such a determination could have taken effect.
118ZW Commission must make written record of review decision and reasons
(1)	When the Commission reviews a decision under this Division it must make a written record of its decision upon review.
(2)	The written record must include a statement that:
(a)	sets out the Commission’s findings on material questions of fact; and
(b)	refers to the evidence or other material on which those findings are based; and
(c)	provides reasons for the Commission’s decision.
118ZX Person who requested review to be notified of decision
(1)	When the Commission affirms or sets aside a decision under this Division it must give the person who requested the review of the decision:
(a)	a copy of the Commission’s decision; and
(b)	subject to subsection (2), a copy of the statement about the decision referred to in subsection 118ZW(1); and
(c)	if the person has a right to apply to the Administrative Review Tribunal for a review of the Commission’s decision—a statement giving the person particulars of that right.
(2)	If the statement referred to in paragraph (1)(b) contains any matter that, in the opinion of the Commission:
(a)	is of a confidential nature; or
(b)	might, if communicated to the person who requested review, be prejudicial to his or her physical or mental health or well-being;
the copy given to the person is not to contain that matter.
118ZY Powers of Commission to gather evidence
(1)	The Commission or the Commission’s delegate may, in reviewing a decision under this Division:
(a)	take evidence on oath or affirmation for the purposes of the review; and
(b)	adjourn a hearing of the review from time to time.
(2)	The presiding member of the Commission or the Commission’s delegate may, for the purposes of the review:
(a)	summon a person to appear at a hearing of the review to give evidence and to produce such documents (if any) as are referred to in the summons; and
(b)	require a person appearing at a hearing of the review for the purpose of giving evidence either to take an oath or to make an affirmation; and
(c)	administer an oath or affirmation to a person so appearing.
(3)	The person who applied for the review under this Division is a competent and compellable witness upon the hearing of the review.
(4)	The oath or affirmation to be taken or made by a person for the purposes of this section is an oath or affirmation that the evidence that the person will give will be true.
(5)	The Commission’s power under paragraph (1)(a) to take evidence on oath or affirmation:
(a)	may be exercised on behalf of the Commission by:
(i)	the presiding member or the Commission’s delegate; or
(ii)	by another person (whether a member or not) authorised by the presiding member or the Commission’s delegate; and
(b)	may be exercised within or outside Australia; and
(c)	must be exercised subject to any limitations specified by the Commission.
(6)	Where a person is authorised under subparagraph (5)(a)(ii) to take evidence for the purposes of a review, the person has:
(a)	all the powers of the Commission under subsection (1); and
(b)	all the powers of the presiding member under subsection (2);
for the purposes of taking that evidence.
(7)	In this section:
Commission’s delegate means a person to whom the Commission has delegated its powers under section 118ZT and who is conducting the review in question.
118ZZ Withdrawal of request for review
(1)	A person who requests a review under section 118ZS may withdraw the request at any time before it is determined by the Commission.
(2)	To withdraw the request, the person must give written notice of withdrawal to the Secretary and the notice must be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(3)	Subject to section 118ZT, a person who withdraws a request for review may subsequently make another request for review of the same decision.
Note:	Section 118ZT provides that a person who wants to request a review of a decision must do so within 3 months after the person has received notice of the decision.
	Division 8 — Seniors Health Card Income Test Calculator
118ZZA Seniors Health Card Income Test Calculator
The Seniors Health Card Income Test Calculator at the end of this section is to be used in working out whether a person satisfies the seniors health card income test for the purposes of this Act.
Seniors Health Card Income Test Calculator
Satisfying the seniors health card income test
118ZZA-1	This is how to work out whether a person satisfies the seniors health card income test at a particular time (the test time).
Method statement
Step 1.	Work out the amount of the person’s adjusted taxable income for the reference tax year.
Step 1A.	If, at the test time, the person, or the person’s partner (if any), has at least one long-term financial asset (see point 118ZZA-12), work out the person’s deemed income amount under:
(a)	if, at the test time, the person is not a member of a couple—point 118ZZA-10A; or
(b)	if, at the test time, the person is a member of a couple—point 118ZZA-10B.
Step 1B.	Work out the sum of the amounts at step 1 and step 1A (if any).
Step 2.	Work out the person’s seniors health card income limit using point 118ZZA-11.
Step 3.	Work out whether the amount at step 1B exceeds the seniors health card income limit.
Step 4.	If the amount at step 1B is less than the person’s seniors health card income limit, the person satisfies the seniors health card income test.
Step 5.	If the amount at step 1B is equal to or exceeds the person’s seniors health card income limit, the person does not satisfy the seniors health card income test.
Reference tax year
118ZZA-2(1)	In the ordinary case, a person’s reference tax year is:
(a)	if the person has received a notice of assessment of his or her taxable income for the tax year immediately preceding the tax year in which the test time occurred—that immediately preceding tax year; or
(b)	otherwise—the tax year immediately preceding the tax year applicable under paragraph (a).
(2)	However, if the person has informed the Secretary in writing that the person wishes to have his or her entitlement to a seniors health card determined by reference to his or her adjusted taxable income for the tax year in which the test time occurred (the current tax year), the person’s reference tax year is the current tax year.
Adjusted taxable income
118ZZA-3	For the purposes of this Division, a person’s adjusted taxable income for a particular tax year is the sum of the following amounts (income components):
(a)	the person’s taxable income for that year, disregarding the person’s assessable FHSS released amount (within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997) for that year;
(b)	the person’s fringe benefits value for that year;
(c)	the person’s target foreign income for that year;
(d)	the person’s total net investment loss (within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997) for that year;
(e)	the person’s reportable superannuation contributions (within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997) for that year.
Note 1:	For taxable income see point 118ZZA-4.
Note 2:	For fringe benefits value see point 118ZZA-5.
Note 3:	For target foreign income see point 118ZZA-6.
Taxable income
118ZZA-4(1)	In this Division:
taxable income has the same meaning as in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997.
(2)	For the purposes of this Division, a person’s taxable income for a particular tax year is:
(a)	the person’s assessed taxable income for that year; or
(b)	if the person does not have an assessed taxable income for that year—the person’s accepted estimate of taxable income for that year.
(3)	For the purposes of this Division, a person’s assessed taxable income for a particular tax year at a particular time is the most recent of:
(a)	if, at that time, the Commissioner of Taxation has made an assessment or an amended assessment of that taxable income—that taxable income according to the assessment or amended assessment; or
(b)	if, at that time, a tribunal has amended an assessment or an amended assessment made by the Commissioner—that taxable income according to the amendment made by the tribunal; or
(c)	if, at that time, a court has amended an assessment or an amended assessment made by the Commissioner or an amended assessment made by a tribunal—that taxable income according to the amendment made by the court.
Fringe benefits value
118ZZA-5(1)	For the purposes of this Division, a person’s fringe benefits value for a particular tax year is the person’s accepted estimate of the amount by which the total of the assessable fringe benefits received or to be received by the person in the tax year exceeds $1,000.
(2)	In this point:
assessable fringe benefit has the meaning given by subsection 10A(2) of the Social Security Act 1991.
(3)	The value of an assessable fringe benefit is to be worked out in accordance with Part 3.12A of the Social Security Act 1991 except that references in that Part to the Minister and to the Secretary are to be taken to be references to the Minister for Veterans’ Affairs and to the Secretary of the Department of Veterans’ Affairs, respectively.
Target foreign income
118ZZA-6(1)		In this Division:
foreign income, in relation to a person, means:
(a)	an income amount earned, derived or received by the person from a source outside Australia for the person’s own use or benefit; or
(b)	a periodical payment by way of gift or allowance from a source outside Australia; or
(c)	a periodical benefit by way of gift or allowance from a source outside Australia.
target foreign income means foreign income that is not:
(a)	taxable income; or
(b)	received in the form of a fringe benefit.
(2)	For the purposes of this Division, a person’s target foreign income for a particular tax year is the person’s accepted estimate of the amount of that income for that year.
Total net investment loss
118ZZA-7		For the purposes of this Division, a person’s total net investment loss for a particular tax year is the person’s accepted estimate of the amount of that loss for that year.
Accepted estimate
118ZZA-8		For the purposes of this Division, a person’s accepted estimate of an income component for a particular tax year is that income component according to the most recent notice given by the person to the Secretary under point 118ZZA-9 and accepted by the Commission for the purposes of this Part.
Notice estimating income component
118ZZA-9(1)		A person may give the Secretary a notice, in a form approved by the Commission, setting out the person’s estimate of an income component of the person for a tax year.
(2)	The notice is to contain, or be accompanied by, such information as is required by the form to be contained in it or to accompany it, as the case may be.
(3)	The Commission is to accept a notice only if the Commission is satisfied that the estimate is reasonable.
Adjusted taxable income of members of couples
118ZZA-10		If a person is a member of a couple, add the couple’s adjusted taxable incomes for the reference tax year and divide by 2 to work out the amount of the person’s adjusted taxable income for the reference tax year.
Deemed income amount
118ZZA-10A		This is how to work out the person’s deemed income amount under this point:
Method statement
Step 1.	Work out the total value of all of the person’s long-term financial assets (see point 118ZZA-12) at the test time.
Step 2.	Work out under section 46D the amount of ordinary income the person would be taken to receive per year on his or her financial assets:
(a)	on the assumption that the only financial assets of the person were the financial assets referred to in step 1; and
(b)	on the assumption that the total value of the person’s financial assets were the amount at step 1.
Step 3.	The result at step 2 is the person’s deemed income amount.
118ZZA-10B		This is how to work out the person’s deemed income amount under this point:
Method statement
Step 1.	Work out the total value of all of the person’s long-term financial assets (see point 118ZZA-12) at the test time.
Step 2.	If, at the test time, the person’s partner has reached the minimum age mentioned in section 301-10 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, work out the total value of all of the person’s partner’s long-term financial assets (see point 118ZZA-12) at the test time.
Step 3.	Work out under section 46E the amount of ordinary income the couple would be taken to receive per year on their financial assets:
(a)	on the assumption that the only financial assets of the person and the person’s partner were the financial assets referred to in steps 1 and 2; and
(b)	on the assumption that the total value of the couple’s financial assets were the sum of the amounts at steps 1 and 2.
Step 4.	Divide the amount at step 3 by 2: the result is the person’s deemed income amount.
Seniors health card income limit
118ZZA-11		A person’s seniors health card income limit is worked out using the Seniors Health Card Income Limit Table. Work out which family situation in the table applies to the person. The person’s seniors health card income limit is the corresponding amount in column 3 plus an additional corresponding amount in column 4 for each dependent child of the person.
Seniors Health Card Income Limit Table
Column 1
Item
Column 2
Person’s family situation
Column 3
Amount per year
Column 4
Additional dependent child
Amount per year
1
Not member of couple
$90,000
$639.60
2
Partnered
$72,000
$639.60
3
Member of illness separated couple
$90,000
$639.60
4
Member of respite care couple
$90,000
$639.60
Note 1:	For member of couple and partnered, see section 5E.
Note 2:	For illness separated couple and respite care couple, see section 5R.
Note 3:	For dependent child, see section 5F.
Note 4:	The amounts in column 3 are to be indexed annually on 20 September in line with CPI increases (see section 198FAA).
Long-term financial asset
118ZZA-12	For the purposes of this Division, a long-term financial asset is:
(a)	a financial investment within the meaning of paragraph (i) of the definition of financial investment in subsection 5J(1), where the asset-tested income stream (long term) arises under a complying superannuation plan (within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997) that is not a constitutionally protected fund (within the meaning of that Act); or
(b)	a financial investment within the meaning of paragraph (j) of the definition of financial investment in subsection 5J(1).
Note:	Schedule 7 to the Social Services and Other Legislation Amendment (2014 Budget Measures No. 6) Act 2014 preserves the rules in this Calculator for a certain kind of long-term financial asset that was being provided to a person immediately before 1 January 2015 where the person held a seniors health card immediately before that day provided that, since that day, the person has held a seniors health card.
Part VIII—General provisions applicable to pensions etc.
119 Commission not bound by technicalities
(1)	In considering, hearing or determining, and in making a decision in relation to:
(a)	a claim or application or the grant of a veteran payment;
(b)	a review, under Division 16 of Part IIIB, of a decision of the Commission with respect to a pension, a veteran payment or qualifying service;
(ba)	a review, under Division 16 of Part IIIB, of a decision of the Commission under Part IIIAB (pension bonus and pension bonus bereavement payment); or
(c)	a reconsideration, under section 31, of a decision of the Commission with respect to a pension under Part II or IV or an attendant allowance under section 98;
(da)	a review, under Division 7 of Part IVA, of a decision of the Commission with respect to an advance payment of an amount of pension;
(e)	the suspension, cancellation or variation of a pension or a veteran payment; or
(ee)	a review, under subsection 115(1), of a decision of the Commission in respect of an application for an allowance, payment or benefit specified in that subsection;
the Commission:
(f)	is not bound to act in a formal manner and is not bound by any rules of evidence, but may inform itself on any matter in such manner as it thinks just;
(g)	shall act according to substantial justice and the substantial merits of the case, without regard to legal form and technicalities; and
(h)	without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall take into account any difficulties that, for any reason, lie in the way of ascertaining the existence of any fact, matter, cause or circumstance, including any reason attributable to:
(i)	the effects of the passage of time, including the effect of the passage of time on the availability of witnesses; and
(ii)	the absence of, or a deficiency in, relevant official records, including an absence or deficiency resulting from the fact that an occurrence that happened during the service of a veteran, or of a member of the Defence Force or of a Peacekeeping Force, as defined by subsection 68(1), was not reported to the appropriate authorities.
(2)	In subsection (1):
application means:
(a)	an application to increase the rate of:
(i)	a pension granted under Part II or IV; or
(ii)	a service pension granted under Part III; or
(iii)	income support supplement granted under Part IIIA; or
(b)	an application for a pension under Part II or IV made in accordance with subsection 15(2); or
(c)	an application to be provided with treatment under Part V; or
(d)	an application for an allowance, payment or benefit specified in subsection 111(1); or
(e)	an application under Part IIIAB for registration as a member of the pension bonus scheme.
claim means:
(a)	a claim for a pension under Part II or IV; or
(b)	a claim for service pension or other benefit under Part III; or
(c)	a claim for a qualifying service determination under Part III; or
(d)	a claim for income support supplement under Part IIIA; or
(e)	a claim for a pension bonus or pension bonus bereavement payment under Part IIIAB.
120 Standard of proof
(1)	Where a claim under Part II for a pension in respect of the incapacity from injury or disease of a veteran, or of the death of a veteran, relates to the operational service rendered by the veteran, the Commission shall determine that the injury was a war-caused injury, that the disease was a war-caused disease or that the death of the veteran was war-caused, as the case may be, unless it is satisfied, beyond reasonable doubt, that there is no sufficient ground for making that determination.
Note:	This subsection is affected by section 120A.
(2)	Where a claim under Part IV:
(a)	in respect of the incapacity from injury or disease of a member of a Peacekeeping Force or of the death of such a member relates to the peacekeeping service rendered by the member; or
(b)	in respect of the incapacity from injury or disease of a member of the Forces, or of the death of such a member, relates to the hazardous service rendered by the member; or
(c)	in respect of the incapacity from injury or disease of a member of the Forces, or of the death of such a member, relates to British nuclear test defence service rendered by the member;
the Commission shall determine that the injury was a defence-caused injury, that the disease was a defence-caused disease or that the death of the member was defence-caused, as the case may be, unless it is satisfied, beyond reasonable doubt, that there is no sufficient ground for making that determination.
Note 1:	For member of a Peacekeeping Force, peacekeeping service, member of the Forces, hazardous service and British nuclear test defence service see subsection 5Q(1A).
Note 2:	This subsection is affected by section 120A.
(3)	In applying subsection (1) or (2) in respect of the incapacity of a person from injury or disease, or in respect of the death of a person, related to service rendered by the person, the Commission shall be satisfied, beyond reasonable doubt, that there is no sufficient ground for determining:
(a)	that the injury was a war-caused injury or a defence-caused injury;
(b)	that the disease was a war-caused disease or a defence-caused disease; or
(c)	that the death was war-caused or defence-caused;
as the case may be, if the Commission, after consideration of the whole of the material before it, is of the opinion that the material before it does not raise a reasonable hypothesis connecting the injury, disease or death with the circumstances of the particular service rendered by the person.
Note:	This subsection is affected by section 120A.
(4)	Except in making a determination to which subsection (1) or (2) applies, the Commission shall, in making any determination or decision in respect of a matter arising under this Act or the regulations, including the assessment or re-assessment of the rate of a pension granted under Part II or Part IV, decide the matter to its reasonable satisfaction.
Note:	This subsection is affected by section 120B.
(5)	Nothing in the provisions of this section, or in any other provision of this Act, shall entitle the Commission to presume that:
(a)	an injury suffered by a person is a war-caused injury or a defence-caused injury;
(b)	a disease contracted by a person is a war-caused disease or a defence-caused disease;
(c)	the death of a person is war-caused or defence-caused; or
(d)	a claimant or applicant is entitled to be granted a pension, allowance or other benefit under this Act.
(6)	Nothing in the provisions of this section, or in any other provision of this Act, shall be taken to impose on:
(a)	a claimant or applicant for a pension or increased pension, or for an allowance or other benefit, under this Act; or
(b)	the Commonwealth, the Department or any other person in relation to such a claim or application;
any onus of proving any matter that is, or might be, relevant to the determination of the claim or application.
(7)	In this section:
hazardous service means service in the Defence Force, before the MRCA commencement date, that is of a kind determined in writing by the Minister administering section 1 of the Defence Act 1903 to be hazardous service for the purposes of this section.
120A Reasonableness of hypothesis to be assessed by reference to Statement of Principles
(1)	This section applies to any of the following claims made on or after 1 June 1994:
(a)	a claim under Part II that relates to the operational service rendered by a veteran;
(b)	a claim under Part IV that relates to:
(i)	the peacekeeping service rendered by a member of a Peacekeeping Force; or
(ii)	the hazardous service rendered by a member of the Forces; or
(iii)	the British nuclear test defence service rendered by a member of the Forces.
Note 1:	Subsections 120(1), (2) and (3) are relevant to these claims.
Note 2:	For peacekeeping service, member of a Peacekeeping Force, hazardous service, member of the Forces and British nuclear test defence service see subsection 5Q(1A).
(2)	If the Authority has given notice under section 370CJ of the MRCA that it intends to carry out an investigation in respect of a particular kind of injury, disease or death, the Commission is not to determine a claim in respect of the incapacity of a person from an injury or disease of that kind, or in respect of a death of that kind, unless or until the Authority:
(a)	has determined a Statement of Principles under section 370CB of the MRCA in respect of that kind of injury, disease or death; or
(b)	has declared that it does not propose to make such a Statement of Principles.
(3)	For the purposes of subsection 120(3), a hypothesis connecting an injury suffered by a person, a disease contracted by a person or the death of a person with the circumstances of any particular service rendered by the person is reasonable only if there is in force:
(a)	a Statement of Principles determined under section 370CB, or subsection 370CN(1), of the MRCA; or
(b)	a determination of the Commission under subsection 120C(2);
that upholds the hypothesis.
Note:	See subsection (4) about the application of this subsection.
(4)	Subsection (3) does not apply in relation to a claim in respect of the incapacity from injury or disease, or the death, of a person if the Authority has neither determined a Statement of Principles under section 370CB of the MRCA, nor declared that it does not propose to make such a Statement of Principles, in respect of:
(a)	the kind of injury suffered by the person; or
(b)	the kind of disease contracted by the person; or
(c)	the kind of death met by the person;
as the case may be.
120B Reasonable satisfaction to be assessed in certain cases by reference to Statement of Principles
(1)	This section applies to any of the following claims made on or after 1 June 1994:
(a)	a claim under Part II that relates to the eligible war service (other than operational service) rendered by a veteran;
(b)	a claim under Part IV that relates to the defence service (other than hazardous service and British nuclear test defence service) rendered by a member of the Forces.
Note 1:	Subsection 120(4) is relevant to these claims.
Note 2:	For hazardous service, member of the Forces and British nuclear test defence service see subsection 5Q(1A).
(2)	If the Authority has given notice under section 370CJ of the MRCA that it intends to carry out an investigation in respect of a particular kind of injury, disease or death, the Commission is not to determine a claim in respect of the incapacity of a person from an injury or disease of that kind, or in respect of a death of that kind, unless or until the Authority:
(a)	has determined a Statement of Principles under section 370CC of the MRCA in respect of that kind of injury, disease or death; or
(b)	has declared that it does not propose to make such a Statement of Principles.
(3)	In applying subsection 120(4) to determine a claim, the Commission is to be reasonably satisfied that an injury suffered by a person, a disease contracted by a person or the death of a person was war-caused or defence-caused only if:
(a)	the material before the Commission raises a connection between the injury, disease or death of the person and some particular service rendered by the person; and
(b)	there is in force:
(i)	a Statement of Principles determined under section 370CC, or subsection 370CN(3), of the MRCA; or
(ii)	a determination of the Commission under subsection 120C(3);
that upholds the contention that the injury, disease or death of the person is, on the balance of probabilities, connected with that service.
(4)	Subsection (3) does not apply in relation to a claim in respect of the incapacity from injury or disease, or the death, of a person if the Authority has neither determined a Statement of Principles under section 370CC of the MRCA, nor declared that it does not propose to make such a Statement of Principles, in respect of:
(a)	the kind of injury suffered by the person; or
(b)	the kind of disease contracted by the person; or
(c)	the kind of death met by the person;
as the case may be.
120C Determination by Commission overriding Authority’s decision in relation to Statements of Principles
(1)	If:
(a)	the Authority has determined, or has declared that it does not propose to make or amend, a Statement of Principles in respect of a particular kind of injury, disease or death (see Part 3 of Chapter 9A of the MRCA); and
(b)	the Commission is of the opinion that, because the Statement of Principles is in force, or because of the decision by the Authority not to make or amend the Statement of Principles:
(i)	claims for pensions in respect of incapacity from injury or disease of that kind made by veterans, members of the Forces, or members of a Peacekeeping Force, of a particular class; or
(ii)	claims for pensions made by dependants of those veterans or members in respect of the death of such a veteran or member;
cannot succeed; and
(c)	the Commission is also of the opinion that, in all the circumstances of the case, those veterans, members or their dependants should receive a pension;
the Commission may, in its discretion, make a determination in respect of that kind of injury, disease or death under subsection (2) or (3), or determinations under both subsections (as the case requires).
(2)	A determination under this subsection in respect of a particular kind of injury, disease or death must be by legislative instrument and must:
(a)	state that it has effect only in relation to the class of veterans, members of the Forces, or members of a Peacekeeping Force referred to in subparagraph (1)(b)(i); and
(b)	state that it applies only in respect of claims relating to:
(i)	operational service rendered by a veteran; or
(ii)	peacekeeping service rendered by a member of a Peacekeeping Force; or
(iii)	hazardous service rendered by a member of the Forces; or
(iv)	British nuclear test defence service rendered by a member of the Forces; and
(c)	set out:
(i)	the factors that must as a minimum exist; and
(ii)	which of those factors must be related to service (within the meaning of the MRCA) rendered by a person;
before it can be said that a reasonable hypothesis has been raised connecting an injury, disease or death of that kind with the circumstances of that service.
(3)	A determination under this subsection in respect of a particular kind of injury, disease or death must be by legislative instrument and must:
(a)	state that it has effect only in relation to the class of veterans or members of the Forces referred to in subparagraph (1)(b)(i); and
(b)	state that it applies only in respect of claims relating to:
(i)	eligible war service (other than operational service) rendered by a veteran; or
(ii)	defence service (other than hazardous service and British nuclear test defence service) rendered by a member of the Forces; and
(c)	set out:
(i)	the factors that must exist; and
(ii)	which of those factors must be related to service (within the meaning of the MRCA) rendered by a person;
before it can be said, on the balance of probabilities, that an injury, disease or death of that kind is connected with the circumstances of that service.
(4)	While there is in force under subsection (2) a determination in respect of a particular kind of injury, disease or death, any Statement of Principles in force under section 370CB of the MRCA in respect of that kind of injury, disease or death does not apply in respect of any veteran, member of the Forces, member of any Peacekeeping Force or dependant in relation to whom the determination has effect.
(5)	While there is in force under subsection (3) a determination in respect of a particular kind of injury, disease or death, any Statement of Principles in force under section 370CC of the MRCA in respect of that kind of injury, disease or death does not apply in respect of any veteran or member of the Forces or dependant in relation to whom the determination has effect.
121 Instalments of pension
Payment in arrears in relation to pension periods
(1)	Pension is payable:
(a)	in arrears; and
(b)	by instalments relating to each pension period.
Total instalment relating to a pension period
(2)	Subject to subsections (3) and (4), the amount payable to a person as an instalment of pension in relation to a pension period is the total amount of pension payable to the person for the days in that period on which pension was payable to the person.
Circumstances in which no instalment is payable in relation to a pension period
(3)	If a person who is receiving a pension is ineligible for payment in respect of the last day of a pension period, no amount is payable to the person as an instalment of pension in relation to the pension period.
(4)	Subject to subsection (4AA), if a person who is receiving a pension dies, no amount is payable to the person as an instalment of pension in relation to the pension period in which the person died.
Exception—pension under Part II or IV at rate determined under Division 4 of Part II
(4AA)	If a person who is receiving a pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to Division 4 of Part II dies, an amount is payable to the person’s estate as an instalment of that pension in relation to the pension period in which the person died.
Pensions generally payable fortnightly
(5)	Unless subsection (5A) applies to the person, an instalment of pension is payable to a person on the next payday after the end of the pension period to which the instalment relates.
Pensions may be payable weekly
(5A)	The Commission may determine, in writing, that the total amount of an instalment of pension payable to a person in relation to a pension period is payable to the person in 2 payments (the part payments) if the person is a member of a class specified under subsection (5C).
(5B)	A determination made under subsection (5A) is not a legislative instrument.
(5C)	The Commission may, by legislative instrument, specify a class of persons for the purposes of subsection (5A).
(5D)	The first of the part payments:
(a)	is not to exceed the total of the amount of pension (calculated in accordance with this section) payable to the person for days that:
(i)	are days on which the pension was payable to the person; and
(ii)	are included in the first 7 days of the pension period; and
(c)	is payable at a time determined by the Commission that is after the first 7 days of the pension period.
(5E)	The other of the part payments:
(a)	is the excess of the amount that is payable to the person as the instalment of pension in relation to the pension period over the first of the part payments; and
(b)	is payable at a time determined by the Commission that is after the end of the pension period.
(5F)	If the total amount of pension payable to a person in relation to a pension period is payable to the person in part payments, then it is taken for the purposes of this Act that:
(a)	a single instalment of the pension is payable in relation to the period; and
(b)	that instalment is payable when the last of the part payments is, or is to be, made; and
(c)	that instalment is equal to the total of the part payments.
Note:	The total of the part payments equals the amount worked out under subsection (2) as the amount payable to the person as the instalment of the pension in relation to the pension period.
(5G)	However, section 122B (about deductions from instalments) applies as if each of the part payments were a separate instalment.
Calculation of rate of pension payable
(6)	For the purpose of the calculation of the amount of an instalment of pension, the rate of pension payable to a person for a day is calculated by dividing the fortnightly rate of pension by 14.
Special rules for energy supplement payable under section 62A or 62B
(6B)	For energy supplement payable under section 62A or 62B:
(a)	this section has effect subject to section 62D (which is about quarterly payment of energy supplement); and
(b)	subsection (2) of this section has effect as if energy supplement covered by an election in force under section 62D by a person on a day were not payable to the person for the day.
Definitions
(7)	In this section:
pension includes energy supplement payable under section 62A or 62B, veterans supplement under Part VIIA or an allowance under this Act, other than loss of earnings allowance under section 108, but does not include a pension or allowance to which section 58A applies.
122 Payment of pension
(1)	Subject to subsection (2), a pension shall be paid to the person (the pensioner) to whom the pension is payable.
(2)	Where the pensioner, by document lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T, requests the Commission to do so, the Commission may, in writing, approve payment of the pension to a person specified in the request for such period as is specified in the approval.
(2A)	A request lodged in accordance with section 5T is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
(3)	The Commission shall not approve payment of the pension to the person specified in the request unless the Commission is satisfied that the person has agreed to receive payment as agent of the pensioner.
(3A)	Where a payment of pension is made to a person in accordance with an approval under subsection (2):
(a)	the payment shall, for all purposes, be deemed to be a payment of the pension to the pensioner;
(b)	neither the Commonwealth nor the Commission is bound to oversee the application of the payment by the person; and
(c)	the person shall be taken to receive the payment as agent of the pensioner.
(4)	A pension shall be paid in such manner as the Commission determines.
Note:	For the procedure to be followed if the Commission determines that a person’s pension is to be paid into an account see section 122A.
(5)	Where, by reason of a public holiday or a bank holiday or for any other reason, an instalment of, or the amount of, a pension cannot be paid on the day on which it would normally be paid, the instalment or amount of the pension may be paid on an earlier day.
(6)	In this section, pension means a pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit payable under this Act, and includes an instalment of such a pension, allowance or other benefit.
122A Pension or supplement may be paid to bank etc.
(1)	The Commission may direct that the whole or a part of the amount of a pension is to be paid, at such intervals as it directs, to the credit of an account nominated from time to time by the pensioner, being an account maintained by the pensioner, either alone or jointly or in common with another person, with:
(a)	a bank; or
(b)	if the pensioner is physically outside Australia—a foreign corporation that takes money on deposit.
(1AA)	If the Commission gives a direction under subsection (1), the pension is payable in accordance with the direction.
(1A)	If the payment is of an amount of pension that is not energy supplement under Part VIIAD and the person has not nominated an account for the purposes of subsection (1), the amount is not to be paid.
(1B)	If:
(a)	an amount has not been paid because of subsection (1A); and
(b)	the person nominates an account for the purposes of subsection (1);
the amount is to be paid under subsection (1AA).
(1C)	If the payment is of an amount of energy supplement under Part VIIAD and the person has not nominated an account for the purposes of subsection (1) by the end of the period of 28 days (or such longer period determined by the Commission) starting on the day on which the Commission requested the person to do so, the supplement ceases to be payable to the person.
(1D)	However, if the person referred to in subsection (1C) nominates an account for the purposes of subsection (1) after the end of the 28 day or other period, then subsection (1C) ceases to apply to the person on the day the person does so.
(1E)	If:
(a)	there is no nomination of an account by the person in force for the purposes of subsection (1); and
(b)	there is a nomination of an account (the existing account) by the person in force for the purposes of section 430 of the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 2004;
the existing account is taken to be an account nominated by the person for the purposes of subsection (1) of this section.
(1F)	Subsection (1E) ceases to apply in relation to the person if, in accordance with subsection (1), the person nominates an account for the purposes of subsection (1).
(2)	In this section:
pension means a pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit payable under this Act, and includes an instalment of such a pension, allowance or other benefit.
pensioner means a person to whom a pension is payable, whether on his or her own behalf or on behalf of another person.
122AA Use and disclosure of account details
Use
(1)	The Commission, a Commissioner or a staff member assisting the Commission may use the details of an account referred to in paragraph 122A(1E)(b) for the purposes of section 122A.
Interaction with Privacy Act 1988
(2)	For the purposes of the Privacy Act 1988, the use of the details of an account in accordance with subsection (1) is taken to be a use that is authorised by this Act.
122B Direct deductions at person’s request
(1)	This section applies if a person is receiving instalments of a pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit payable under this Act of a class approved by the Commission for the purposes of this section.
(2)	The person may request the Commission to make deductions from the instalments for the purpose of making:
(a)	payments to the Commissioner of Taxation; or
(b)	payments in a class approved by the Commission for the purposes of this section.
(3)	The request must be in the form approved by the Commission for the purposes of this section.
(4)	If a request is made:
(a)	the Commission may make the requested deductions; and
(b)	if it does so—the Commission must pay the amounts deducted in accordance with the request.
(5)	The Commission may, for the purposes of this section, approve:
(a)	classes of pensions; and
(b)	classes of allowances; and
(c)	classes of pecuniary benefits; and
(d)	classes of payments.
(6)	An approval under subsection (5) is a legislative instrument.
122C Payment of pension or allowance outside Australia
If a pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit under this Act, other than a pension or allowance to which section 58A applies, is payable to a person who is physically outside Australia, then it may be paid:
(a)	in the manner determined by the Commission; and
(b)	in the instalments determined by the Commission.
123 Interpretation
(1)	In this section and sections 123A to 123E (inclusive):
applicable sections means this section and sections 123A to 123E (inclusive).
child, in relation to a person who has died (in this definition called the deceased), means:
(a)	a person who is a child of the deceased within the meaning of section 10;
(b)	a person who was a natural child of the deceased; or
(ba)	someone who was a child of the deceased within the meaning of the Family Law Act 1975; or
(c)	a person who was adopted by the deceased or by the deceased and the deceased’s partner or non-illness separated spouse.
parent, in relation to a person who has died, means someone whose child the person was.
sibling, in relation to a person who has died, means someone who was a sister, half-sister, brother or half-brother of the person.
waiting period, in relation to a person, means the period of 12 months commencing on:
(a)	if subparagraph 123A(2)(c)(i) applies to the person—the death of the person; or
(b)	if subparagraph 123A(2)(c)(ii) applies to the person—the date of the grant of the claim.
(2)	For the purposes of paragraph (a) of the definition of child in subsection (1), a person shall be taken to be a child even though the person is in receipt of a pension, benefit or allowance of a kind referred to in the definition of child in subsection 5F(1).
(3)	A reference in the applicable sections to an executor of a will includes a reference to:
(a)	an executor of the will by representation; and
(b)	if probate of the will has been granted and a person has subsequently been granted administration of the unadministered assets covered by the will—that person.
(4)	A reference in the applicable sections to the person to whom a grant of letters of administration with a will annexed has been made includes a reference to a person who has subsequently been granted administration of the unadministered assets covered by the will.
(5)	A reference in the applicable sections, in relation to an approval of a payment, to a person who is known is a reference to a person:
(a)	who is alive at the time of the approval; and
(b)	whose existence and whereabouts are known to the Commission at that time.
Note:	Sections 123 to 123E do not apply if Subdivision C of Division 12A of Part IIIB applies.
123A Payment of pension etc. on death of person
(1)	The objects of the applicable sections are:
(a)	to ensure that moneys payable under this Act to a person who has died are paid out as promptly as possible;
(b)	to pay those moneys, so far as is consistent with paragraph (a), in accordance with the person’s will;
(c)	to ensure that not more than $20,000, or the amount prescribed for the purposes of subsection 123B(6), is paid out without probate of the will having been obtained or letters of administration with the will annexed having been granted; and
(d)	to ensure that, in the event of intestacy, the payment of those moneys is made on principles that are uniform throughout Australia.
(2)	Where:
(a)	a person (in the applicable sections called the deceased) dies;
(b)	an amount (in the applicable sections called the distributable amount) of a pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit is payable under this Act to the deceased; and
(c)	the distributable amount:
(i)	has accrued, and was unpaid, on the deceased’s death; or
(ii)	has become payable after the deceased’s death in respect of a period or event before that death by reason of the grant, after that death, of a claim for the pension, allowance or benefit made before that death;
the Commission shall deal with the distributable amount in accordance with the applicable sections and the distributable amount shall not, subject to subsections 123B(2) and (3), form part of the deceased’s estate.
(3)	Where an amount is paid in accordance with an approval given under the applicable sections, the Commonwealth is not liable to any action, claim or demand for payment in respect of that amount.
Note:	Sections 123 to 123E do not apply if Subdivision C of Division 12A of Part IIIB applies.
123B Distribution where deceased leaves valid will
(1)	This section applies where the Commission is satisfied that:
(a)	the deceased left a valid will; and
(b)	but for the applicable sections, the will would dispose of the deceased’s right to the distributable amount (either expressly or as part of the residue of the deceased’s estate).
(2)	Where this section applies and the Commission is satisfied that the will appointed an executor or executors, the Commission may, subject to subsection (6), approve payment of the whole or part of that amount to an executor of the will.
(3)	Where this section applies and the Commission is satisfied that:
(a)	no-one is executor of the will; and
(b)	a person has applied for and obtained a grant of letters of administration with the will annexed;
the Commission may approve payment of the whole or part of that amount to the person to whom the grant was made.
(4)	Where this section applies and the Commission is satisfied that:
(a)	no-one is executor of the will;
(b)	letters of administration with the will annexed have not been applied for or granted; and
(c)	distribution of the whole or part of the distributable amount in accordance with the statutory order referred to in section 123D would not be inconsistent with the terms of the will;
the Commission may, subject to subsection (6), approve payment of the whole or part of that amount in accordance with the statutory order.
(5)	Where this section applies and the Commission is satisfied that:
(a)	no-one is executor of the will; and
(b)	the waiting period has elapsed without an application for letters of administration with the will annexed having been made;
the Commission may, subject to subsection (6), approve payment of the whole or part of that amount in accordance with the statutory order referred to in section 123D.
(6)	If probate of the will has not been obtained and letters of administration with the will annexed have not been granted, the Commission shall not approve a payment or payments under subsection (2), (4) or (5) in respect of the deceased if the amount of the payment, or the sum of the amounts of the payments made under those subsections, would exceed $20,000 or such higher amount as is prescribed for the purposes of this subsection.
Note:	Sections 123 to 123E do not apply if Subdivision C of Division 12A of Part IIIB applies.
123C Intestacy
Where the Commission is satisfied that:
(a)	the deceased did not leave a valid will; or
(b)	the deceased left a valid will but, even if the applicable sections did not apply to the amount, the will would not dispose of the deceased’s right to the distributable amount (either expressly or as part of the residue of the deceased’s estate);
the Commission may approve payment of the whole or part of that amount in accordance with the statutory order referred to in section 123D.
Note:	Sections 123 to 123E do not apply if Subdivision C of Division 12A of Part IIIB applies.
123D Statutory order of distribution
(1)	Distribution of an amount in respect of the deceased in accordance with the statutory order shall, subject to subsections (2) and (3), be made to:
(a)	the known widow or widower of the deceased or the known widows or widowers of the deceased in equal shares;
(b)	if there is no known widow or widower of the deceased—the known child of the deceased or the known children of the deceased in equal shares;
(c)	if there is no known widow or widower of the deceased and no known child of the deceased—the known parent of the deceased or the known parents of the deceased in equal shares; or
(d)	if there is no known widow or widower of the deceased, no known child of the deceased and no known parent of the deceased—the known sibling of the deceased or the known siblings of the deceased in equal shares.
(2)	Where:
(a)	a child (in this subsection called the beneficiary) of the deceased predeceases the deceased or dies before the approval of a payment under the applicable sections; and
(b)	there is a known child of the beneficiary or there are known children of the beneficiary;
the amount that would have been paid to the beneficiary had the beneficiary been alive at the time of approval shall be distributed to the child or to those children in equal shares.
(3)	Where:
(a)	a sibling of the deceased predeceases the deceased or dies before the approval of a payment under the applicable sections; and
(b)	there is a known child of the sibling or there are known children of the sibling;
the amount that would have been paid to the sibling had the sibling been alive at the time of approval shall be distributed to that child or to those children in equal shares.
Note:	Sections 123 to 123E do not apply if Subdivision C of Division 12A of Part IIIB applies.
123E Non-distributable amounts
Where the Commission determines in writing that it is not possible to pay the whole or part of the distributable amount in accordance with sections 123B and 123C, that amount or that part of that amount ceases to be payable to the deceased.
Note:	Sections 123 to 123E do not apply if Subdivision C of Division 12A of Part IIIB applies.
124 Termination of pension
(1)	Where a veteran or a dependant of a veteran has requested the Commission, in writing, to cancel a pension payable under Part II or IV, or an allowance under Part VI, the Commission may cancel the pension or allowance.
(2)	Where a veteran or a dependant of a veteran has, for a continuous period of not less than 6 months, failed to draw instalments of a pension granted to the veteran or dependant under Part II or IV, or of an allowance under Part VI, the Commission may suspend or cancel the pension or allowance.
(3)	Where the Commission suspends a pension or allowance under subsection (2), it may, at any time, terminate the suspension from the date as from which the pension or allowance was suspended or such later date as the Commission deems proper.
(4)	Where:
(a)	a person in receipt of a pension under Part II or IV notifies the occurrence of an event or change of circumstances in accordance with a notice under subsection 127(1); and
(b)	by reason of the occurrence of that event or change of circumstances, the person ceases to be eligible to receive that pension;
that pension ceases to be payable to the person as from the day after the last day on which the person could, in accordance with that notice, have notified the occurrence of that event or change of circumstances.
(5)	Where:
(a)	a person who is in receipt of a pension under Part II or IV is required to notify the occurrence of an event or a change in circumstances in accordance with a notice under subsection 127(1);
(b)	the person does not notify the occurrence of that event or that change in circumstances within the period specified in the notice; and
(c)	by reason of the occurrence of that event or that change in circumstances:
(i)	the person ceases to be eligible to receive that pension; or
(ii)	that pension is payable to the person at a lower rate;
that pension ceases to be payable to the person, or becomes payable to the person at the lower rate, as the case may be, as from the day after the day on which that event or that change in circumstances occurred.
(6)	In this section:
(b)	a reference to a veteran shall be read as including a reference to a person who is a member of the Forces, or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, as defined by subsection 68(1).
125 Pensions etc. absolutely inalienable
Subject to this Act and Parts 3B and 3C of the Social Security (Administration) Act 1999, a pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit under this Act is absolutely inalienable, whether by way of, or in consequence of, sale, assignment, charge, execution, bankruptcy or otherwise.
126 Death of claimant etc.
(1)	On the death of a claimant, the claim does not lapse in respect of any period before the death of the claimant, but the legal personal representative of the claimant, or a person approved by the Commission, may take such action in respect of the claim as the claimant could have taken if the claimant had not died and, for that purpose, the legal personal representative or person so approved shall be treated as the claimant.
(2)	On the death of a person (the pensioner), the legal personal representative of the pensioner, or a person approved by the Commission, may take such action in respect of a variation of, or the suspension or cancellation of, the pensioner’s pension or veteran payment effected before the death of the pensioner, or effected after the death of the pensioner as from a date before the death of the pensioner, as the pensioner could have taken if he or she had not died and, for that purpose, the legal personal representative or person so approved shall be treated as the pensioner.
(3)	If there is a legal personal representative of a deceased claimant or deceased pensioner, the Commission shall not approve a person for the purpose of subsection (1) or (2) unless it is satisfied that:
(a)	the person has notified the legal personal representative of the deceased claimant, or deceased pensioner, that the legal personal representative has, or may have, a right under subsection (1) or (2), as the case may be; and
(b)	the legal personal representative has refused, or failed within a reasonable time after having been so notified, to take any action in respect of the claim, pension or veteran payment, as the case may be.
(4)	In this section, claim means a claim in accordance with section 14, 35B, 36D, 37D, 38D, 39D or 45I, an application in accordance with section 15, and an application for review under Division 16 of Part IIIB, section 175 of this Act or Part 4 or 5 of Chapter 8 of the MRCA (because of the operation of section 134 of this Act), and claimant has a corresponding meaning.
126A Death of a person who has not made a formal claim etc.
(1)	If a deceased person has made a claim for a pension under Part II or IV in writing, but otherwise than in accordance with a form approved for the purposes of paragraph 14(3)(a), an authorised representative of the deceased person may make a claim for the pension in accordance with such a form.
(2)	If a deceased person has made a claim for a pension under Part III or IIIA in writing, but otherwise than in accordance with the form approved for the purpose under paragraph 35D(b), 36F(b), 37F(b), 38F(b), 39F(b) or 45K(b) (as the case requires), an authorised representative of the deceased person may make a claim for the pension in accordance with that form.
(3)	If a deceased person has made an application of a kind referred to in subsection 15(1) or (2) in writing, but otherwise than in accordance with a form approved for the purposes of paragraph 15(3)(a), an authorised representative of the deceased person may make an application of that kind in accordance with such a form.
(4)	A person who, pursuant to subsection (1), (2) or (3), makes a claim for a pension under Part II, III, IIIA or IV, or an application of a kind referred to in subsection 15(1) or (2):
(a)	take such action in relation to the claim or application as the deceased person could have taken if he or she had made the claim or application and had not died; and
(b)	the purposes of taking such action, shall be treated as if he or she were the deceased person.
(5)	The Commission may authorise a person to take action under this section in relation to a deceased person if:
(a)	there is no legal personal representative of the deceased person; or
(b)	the Commission is satisfied that:
(i)	person has notified the legal personal representative of the deceased person that the legal personal representative has, or may have, a right under this section to make a claim or application; and
(ii)	legal personal representative has refused, or failed within a reasonable time after having been so notified, to make the claim or application.
(6)	In this section:
authorised representative, in relation to a deceased person, means:
(a)	the legal personal representative of the deceased person; or
(b)	a person authorised by the Commission in accordance with subsection (5) to take action under this section in relation to the deceased person.
127 Power to obtain information
(1)	The Secretary may serve on:
(a)	a person to whom a pension, allowance or other benefit under this Act is being paid, including a person to whom the whole or a part of such a pension, allowance or benefit is being paid for the purpose of being applied for the benefit of the pensioner;
(b)	a person whose claim or application for a pension, attendant allowance, recreation transport allowance or essential medical equipment payment under this Act is under consideration by the Commission, the Board or the Administrative Review Tribunal;
(c)	a person who is being provided with treatment under Part V; or
(d)	a person whose application to be provided with treatment under Part V is under consideration by the Commission;
a notice, in writing:
(e)	if:
(i)	an event or change of circumstances specified in the notice occurs; or
(ii)	the person becomes aware that an event or change of circumstances so specified is likely to occur;
requiring the person to notify the Department, or an officer specified in the notice, of the occurrence or likely occurrence of that event or change of circumstances:
(iii)	subject to subsection (2A)—in the manner specified in the notice; and
(iv)	within such period after the occurrence of that event or change of circumstances, or after the person becomes so aware, as the case may be, as is specified in the notice; or
(f)	requiring the person to give to the Department, or to an officer specified in the notice, a statement, in accordance with a form approved by the Commission:
(i)	subject to subsection (2A)—in the manner specified in the notice; and
(ii)	within the period specified in the notice;
relating to any matter specified in the notice that might affect the payment to that person of the pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit under this Act, or the provision of treatment under Part V.
(2)	An event or change of circumstances shall not be specified in a notice referred to in paragraph (1)(e) unless the occurrence of that event or change of circumstances might affect the payment of a pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit under this Act or the provision of treatment under Part V.
(2A)	A document lodged as a consequence of a notice under subsection (1) that either:
(a)	requires a person to inform the Department in writing of the occurrence or likely occurrence of an event or change of circumstances specified in the notice; or
(b)	requires the person to give the Department a statement relating to a matter referred to in paragraph (1)(f) that is specified in the notice;
is to be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T and is taken to have been lodged on a day determined under that section.
(3)	The period for compliance specified in a notice in accordance with subsection (1) shall not be less than 14 days.
(3A)	A notice under subsection (1) may specify an event or change of circumstances by referring to an event or change of circumstance set out in a document referred to in the notice (being a document a copy of which is served on the person with the notice) and, if the notice does so, the event or change of circumstances shall be deemed, for the purposes of this section, to be specified in the notice.
(3B)	Where a notice under subsection (1) specifies an event or change of circumstances by referring to an event or change of circumstances set out in a document, it may specify the period within which notification of the occurrence, or likely occurrence, of the event or change of circumstances is to be furnished to the Department by reference to the period set out in that document in respect of that event or change of circumstances and, if the notice does so, the period shall be deemed, for the purposes of this section, to be specified in the notice.
(4)	A person who has been given a notice under subsection (1) must not fail to comply with the notice.
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 6 months or 10 penalty units, or both.
(5)	An offence under subsection (4) is an offence of strict liability.
Note:	For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code.
(6)	Subsection (4) does not apply to the extent that the person is not capable of complying with the notice.
Note:	The defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (6). See subsection 13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
128 Secretary may obtain information etc.
(1)	The Secretary may, for the purposes of this Act, by notice in writing given to a person (including a person employed in or in connection with a Department of the Government of the Commonwealth, of a State or of a Territory or by any authority of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory), require the person:
(a)	to:
(i)	provide the Department, or an officer specified in the notice, with such information as the Secretary requires; or
(ii)	produce to the Department, or to an officer so specified, any documents in the custody or under the control of the person;
within the period (not being less than 14 days after the notice is given) and in the manner specified in the notice; or
(b)	to appear before an officer specified in the notice at such reasonable time (not being a time earlier than 14 days after the notice is given) and place as are specified in the notice to answer questions.
(2)	Without limiting the generality of subsection (1), the Secretary may:
(a)	by notice in writing given to a person who is indebted to the Commonwealth under or as a result of this Act, require the person:
(i)	to provide the Department, or an officer specified in the notice, within the period specified in the notice (not being less than 14 days after the notice is given), with such information concerning the person’s financial situation as is required by the notice or to produce to the Department, or to an officer so specified, within that period, such documents concerning that situation as are so specified; and
(ii)	if the person’s address changes, to notify the Department or an officer so specified, within 14 days of the change, of the new address; or
(b)	by notice in writing given to a person who the Secretary believes may have information concerning the whereabouts of a person who is indebted to the Commonwealth under or as a result of this Act or the financial situation of such a person, require the person to provide the Department, or an officer specified in the notice, within the period specified in the notice (not being less than 14 days after the notice is given), with such information concerning those matters as is required by the notice or to produce to the Department, or to an officer so specified, within that period, such documents concerning those matters as are specified in the notice.
(2AA)	A document lodged as a consequence:
(a)	of a notice issued under subsection (1) requiring a person to provide the Department, in writing, with such information as the Secretary specifies in the notice; or
(b)	of a notice issued under paragraph (2)(a) requiring a person to provide the Department with such written information concerning the person’s financial situation as is required by that notice; or
(c)	of a notice under paragraph (2)(b) requiring a person to provide the Department, in writing, with such information concerning the whereabouts or financial situation of a person indebted to the Commonwealth as is specified in the notice;
is to be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T and is taken to have been lodged on a day determined under that section.
(2A)	The Secretary may require the information or answers to questions under this section to be verified or given, as the case may be, on oath or affirmation, and either orally or in writing, and for that purpose the Secretary or an officer to whom information or answers are verified or given may administer an oath or affirmation.
(3)	The oath or affirmation to be taken by a person for the purposes of this section is an oath or affirmation that the evidence the person will give will be true.
(4)	A person must not fail to comply with a notice under subsection (1).
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 6 months or 10 penalty units.
(4A)	An offence under subsection (4) is an offence of strict liability.
Note:	For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code.
(4B)	Subsection (4) does not apply to the extent that the person is not capable of complying with the notice.
Note:	The defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (4B). See subsection 13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
(5)	A person shall not, in purported compliance with a notice under subsection (1), intentionally furnish information or give evidence that is false or misleading in a material particular.
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 12 months or 20 penalty units, or both.
(6)	This section binds the Crown in right of the Commonwealth, of each of the States, of the Australian Capital Territory and of the Northern Territory.
(7)	This section does not require a person to furnish information, produce a document or give evidence to the extent that, in doing so, the person would contravene a law of the Commonwealth (not being a law of a Territory).
128A Provision of tax file numbers
(1)	In this section:
income payment means:
(a)	a pension under Part II, III, IIIA or IV; or
(b)	a veteran payment; or
(c)	a loss of earnings allowance under section 108; or
(d)	an allowance under this Act payable to a person in receipt of a pension referred to in paragraph (a).
TFN declaration has the same meaning as in Part VA of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936.
(2)	An income payment that a person (the eligible person) is eligible to receive is not to be paid to the person if the person fails to comply with the request in subsection (3) or (3A) (whichever applies).
(2A)	If a person (the eligible person) is eligible for a seniors health card under section 118V, the Commission must not determine that the person is entitled to the card if the person fails to comply with a request in subsection (3) or (3A) (whichever applies).
(2B)	If a person (the eligible person) is the holder of a seniors health card, the Commission is to determine that the person ceases to be entitled to the card if the person fails to comply with a request in subsection (3) or (3A) (whichever applies).
Note 1:	For holder of a seniors health card see section 5PB.
Note 2:	For the date of effect of a determination under this subsection see section 118ZR.
(3)	If an eligible person is in Australia, the Secretary may request but not compel the person:
(a)	if the person has a tax file number—to give the Secretary a written statement of the person’s tax file number; or
(b)	if the person does not have a tax file number:
(i)	to apply to the Commissioner of Taxation for a tax file number; and
(ii)	to give the Secretary a written statement of the person’s tax file number after the Commissioner of Taxation has issued it.
(3A)	If an eligible person has a partner or non-illness separated spouse and the partner or spouse is in Australia, the Secretary may request but not compel the person:
(a)	if the partner or spouse has a tax file number—to give the Secretary a written statement of the partner’s or spouse’s tax file number; or
(b)	if the partner or spouse does not have a tax file number—to give the Secretary a written statement of the partner’s or spouse’s tax file number after the Commissioner of Taxation has issued it.
(3B)	If:
(a)	a person’s income payment ceases to be paid because the person fails to comply with subsection (3) or (3A) by a particular day; and
(b)	subsection (3) or (3A) is satisfied in relation to the person’s tax file number within the 3 month period that starts on that day;
then the income payment that would have been paid to the person during that period if the person had complied with the request in subsection (3) or (3A) is to be paid to the person.
(3C)	If subsection (3) or (3A) is satisfied in relation to the person’s tax file number after the 3 month period has ended the person’s income payment is to be paid from the day on which subsection (3) or (3A) is satisfied.
(4)	The request in subsection (3) or (3A) (whichever applies) in relation to a person’s tax file number is satisfied if:
(a)	the Secretary is given:
(i)	where the person is the eligible person and the pension, veteran payment or allowance is assessable income for the purposes of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 or the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997—a TFN declaration by the person; or
(ii)	in any other case—a declaration by the person in a form approved by the Secretary; and
(b)	the declaration states either:
(i)	that the person has a tax file number but does not know what it is and has asked the Commissioner of Taxation to inform him or her of the number; or
(ii)	that the person has applied for a tax file number; and
(c)	where subparagraph (b)(i) applies—the person has given the Secretary a document authorising the Commissioner of Taxation to tell the Secretary:
(i)	whether the person has a tax file number; and
(ii)	if so—the tax file number; and
(d)	where subparagraph (b)(ii) applies—the person has given the Secretary a document authorising the Commissioner of Taxation to tell the Secretary:
(i)	if a tax file number is issued to the person—the tax file number; or
(ii)	if the application is refused—that the application has been refused; or
(iii)	if the application is withdrawn—that the application has been withdrawn; and
(e)	the Commissioner of Taxation has not told the Secretary that the person has no tax file number or that an application by the person for a tax file number has been refused; and
(f)	if subparagraph (b)(ii) applies—the Commissioner of Taxation has not told the Secretary that:
(i)	the application for a tax file number has been withdrawn; or
(ii)	the person has not applied for a tax file number.
(5)	The Secretary may waive the requirement for a statement of the tax file number of the person’s partner or non-illness separated spouse if satisfied that the person:
(a)	does not know that number; and
(b)	can obtain none of the following from the partner or non-illness separated spouse:
(i)	that number;
(ii)	a statement of that number;
(iii)	a declaration by the partner or non-illness separated spouse under paragraph (4)(a).
129 Self-incrimination
A person is not excused from furnishing information, producing a document or giving evidence in pursuance of a notice under section 128 on the ground that the information or evidence, or the production of the document, may tend to incriminate the person, but any information furnished, evidence given or document produced in pursuance of a notice under section 128 is not admissible in evidence against the person in any criminal proceedings, other than proceedings for an offence against subsection 128(4) or (5).
129A Manner of giving notice or other document
(1)	If:
(a)	a provision of this Act requires or permits a notice or other document to be given to a person by the Secretary, the Department, an officer of the Department, or the Commission; and
(b)	the provision does not specify how the notice or other document is to be given;
then the notice or other document must be given:
(c)	in accordance with section 28A of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901; or
(d)	in a manner approved in writing by the Commission.
(2)	This section does not limit the Electronic Transactions Act 1999.
130 Furnishing of information
(1)	Nothing in a law of a State or of a Territory shall operate so as to prevent a person from furnishing any information, producing any documents, or giving any evidence to an officer for the purposes of this Act.
(2)	The Secretary or another officer of the Department may provide any information obtained in the performance of his or her duties under this Act (whether before or after the commencement of this subsection) to the Secretary of another Department of State of the Commonwealth or to the head of an authority of the Commonwealth for the purposes of that Department or authority.
(2A)	If:
(a)	an eligible person is entitled to treatment under Part V of this Act; and
(b)	the treatment is provided to the eligible person through an arrangement, including a contractual arrangement, with a body that is not a corporate Commonwealth entity or a non-corporate Commonwealth entity;
the Secretary or another officer of the Department may provide any information that relates to the provision of that treatment:
(c)	to a receiving Commonwealth body; and
(d)	for a purpose relating to the performance of a function, or the exercise of a power, by that body.
(3)	To avoid doubt, if information is disclosed in accordance with subsection (2) or (2A), the disclosure is taken, for the purposes of the Australian Privacy Principles, to be authorised by this Act.
131 Interpretation
In sections 127 to 130 (inclusive), unless the contrary intention appears:
corporate Commonwealth entity has the same meaning as in the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013.
eligible person means a person eligible under section 85, 86, 88A or 88B to be provided with treatment.
non-corporate Commonwealth entity has the same meaning as in the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013.
officer means a person performing duties, or exercising powers or functions, under, or in relation to, this Act.
person includes an unincorporated body.
receiving Commonwealth body means any of the following:
(a)	the Aged Care Quality and Safety Commission;
(b)	the Commission;
(d)	the National Disability Insurance Scheme Launch Transition Agency;
(e)	the NDIS Quality and Safeguards Commission;
(f)	the Department administered by the Minister administering the Aged Care Act 2024;
(g)	the Department administered by the Minister administering the Disability Services and Inclusion Act 2023;
(h)	if:
(i)	another Department of State, or another authority, of the Commonwealth has regulatory, compliance or enforcement functions in relation to the provision of care, support, treatment or other related services or assistance (including care, support, treatment or other related services or assistance provided through an arrangement, including a contractual arrangement); and
(ii)	the Department or authority is prescribed in the regulations;
that Department or authority.
132 Payment of travelling expenses in certain cases
(1)	Subject to such conditions as are prescribed, where:
(a)	a claimant; or
(aa)	a person whose eligibility for a veteran payment is being considered; or
(b)	a person likely to be affected by a reconsideration under section 31;
travels:
(c)	within Australia, for the purpose of attending, at the request of the Commission or a delegate of the Commission, before the Commission or such a delegate for a discussion in relation to the claim, consideration or reconsideration; or
(d)	within or outside Australia, for the purpose of attending, at the request of the Secretary or the Commission, for a medical examination or medical investigation related to the claim, consideration or reconsideration;
he or she is entitled to receive such travelling expenses in connection with that travel as are prescribed.
(2)	Subject to such conditions as are prescribed, an attendant who travels in Australia for the purpose of accompanying a claimant, a person whose eligibility for a veteran payment is being considered or a person likely to be affected by a reconsideration under section 31 to a discussion, or for a medical examination or a medical investigation referred to in subsection (1) of this section, is entitled to be paid such travelling expenses in connection with that travel as are prescribed.
(3)	Subject to such conditions as are prescribed, a person summoned under section 32 or 57F to give evidence or produce documents, or both, is entitled to receive such travelling expenses in connection with his or her travel to give that evidence or produce those documents, or both, as are prescribed.
(4)	Subject to such conditions as are prescribed, an attendant who travels in Australia for the purpose of accompanying a person referred to in subsection (3) when that person gives evidence or produces documents, or both, in pursuance of a summons under section 32 or 57F is entitled to be paid such travelling expenses in connection with that travel as are prescribed.
(7)	Subject to such conditions as are prescribed, where:
(a)	the party (not being the Commission) to proceedings for a review of a reviewable decision who made application for the review under section 175; or
(b)	if the Commission made application for the review—the other party to the proceedings for the review whose interests are affected by the reviewable decision;
travels within Australia for the purpose of attending before the Administrative Review Tribunal in connection with the review, the party is entitled to receive such travelling expenses in connection with that travel as are prescribed.
(8)	Subject to such conditions as are prescribed, an attendant who travels within Australia for the purpose of accompanying a party referred to in subsection (7) on an attendance before the Administrative Review Tribunal referred to in that subsection is entitled to be paid such travelling expenses in connection with that travel as are prescribed.
(9)	If:
(a)	a claim for a pension:
(i)	is made on behalf of the claimant by a person who is a dependant of the claimant or who is approved under paragraph 16(b), (c) or (d) to make the claim on behalf of the claimant; or
(ii)	is prosecuted by a person who is the legal personal representative of the claimant, or by a person approved under section 126, following the death of the claimant; and
(b)	that person travels within Australia with the approval of the Commission for the purpose of an investigation, by the Department or the Commission, of the claim;
the person is, subject to such conditions as are prescribed, entitled to be paid such travelling expenses in connection with that travel as are prescribed.
(10)	Travelling expenses to which a person is entitled to under this section are payable by the Commonwealth.
(11)	Where a person who has travelled in Australia is entitled to be paid travelling expenses under this section in connection with that travel, application for payment of travelling expenses in respect of that travel:
(a)	may be made:
(i)	by that person; or
(ii)	with the approval of that person or, if that person is, by reason of physical or mental ailment or of that person’s death, unable to approve a person to make the application on his or her behalf, with the approval of the Commission, by another person on behalf of that person;
(b)	shall be made in writing and in accordance with a form approved by the Commission;
(c)	shall be accompanied by such evidence available to the applicant as the applicant considers may be relevant to the application;
(d)	is to be lodged in accordance with subsection (11A); and
(e)	must be made within:
(i)	12 months after the completion of that travel; or
(ii)	if the Commission thinks that there are exceptional circumstances that justify extending that period—such further period as the Commission allows.
(11A)	An application must be lodged at an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T.
(11C)	If an application is lodged with an office of the Department in Australia in accordance with section 5T, it is taken to have been made on a day determined under that section.
(12)	In this section claim means a claim in accordance with section 14, 35B, 36D, 37D, 38D or 45I, an application in accordance with section 15 and an application for a review under Division 16 of Part IIIB, section 115 and claimant has a corresponding meaning.
Part IX—Review of decisions by Board
133 Interpretation
In this Part, unless the contrary intention appears:
decision means:
(a)	any decision of the Commission in respect of the following claims or applications (including a decision under section 20 or 21 but not a decision under subsection 19A(1)):
(i)	a claim for a pension under section 14;
(ii)	an application for a pension, or for an increased pension, under section 15;
(iii)	an application for attendant allowance under section 98; or
(b)	a determination made by the Commission under subsection 347(3) of the MRCA because of the operation of subsection 31(2) of this Act.
pension means pension under Part II or IV.
veteran means:
(a)	a veteran as defined by subsection 5(1); or
(b)	a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, as defined by subsection 68(1).
134 Review of decisions by the Board
(1)	Subject to this Part, Part 4 of Chapter 8 of the MRCA applies in relation to a decision as if:
(a)	the decision were an original determination; and
(b)	a person in respect of whom the decision was made were the claimant; and
(d)	a reference in that Part to subsection 323(2) were a reference to section 5T of this Act; and
(e)	paragraph 353Q(3)(a) of that Part referred to a claim for a pension made by a person mentioned in paragraph 132(9)(a) of this Act.
Note:	This means that a decision may be reviewed by the Board under Part 4 of Chapter 8 of the MRCA.
(2)	Subject to Part X of this Act, if the Board reviews a decision (the VEA decision) under Part 4 of Chapter 8 of the MRCA, Part 5 of that Chapter applies in relation to the determination made by the Board on review as if:
(a)	the Board’s determination on review were a reviewable determination; and
(b)	a person in respect of whom the VEA decision was made were the claimant.
Note:	This means that the Board’s determination on review of a VEA decision may be reviewed by the Administrative Review Tribunal under Part 5 of Chapter 8 of the MRCA.
135 Application for review—timing requirements
(5)	An application under Part 4 of Chapter 8 of the MRCA to the Board to review a decision of the Commission:
(a)	assessing a rate of pension or increased rate of pension;
(b)	refusing to grant a pension on the ground that the extent of the incapacity of the veteran is insufficient to justify the grant of a pension;
(c)	refusing to increase the rate of a pension;
(d)	reducing the rate of a pension; or
(e)	cancelling or suspending a pension, or fixing the date of re-commencement of a pension that has been suspended;
may be made within 3 months after service on the person to whom the decision relates of a copy of that decision in accordance with subsection 34(2), but not otherwise.
(5A)	An application by a person under Part 4 of Chapter 8 of the MRCA to the Board to review a decision of the Commission, whether the decision was made before or is made after the commencement of this subsection, refusing to grant an application for attendant allowance under section 98 may be made within a period of 3 months after service on the person of notice of the decision or within a period of 3 months after the commencement of this subsection, whichever last expires, but not otherwise.
136 Application for review—who may make an application
(2)	An application for review under Part 4 of Chapter 8 of the MRCA relating to a pension granted to, or claimed for, a veteran, or a dependant of a deceased veteran, may be made:
(a)	by the veteran or dependant, as the case may be;
(b)	with the approval of the veteran or dependant, as the case may be, by another person on behalf of the veteran or dependant;
(c)	in the case of a veteran or dependant, as the case may be, who is unable, by reason of physical or mental incapacity, to approve a person to make an application on his or her behalf—on behalf of the veteran or dependant, by a person approved by the Commission; or
(d)	in the case of a dependant who is under the age of 18 years, on behalf of the dependant:
(i)	by a parent or guardian of the dependant;
(ii)	by another person approved by a parent or guardian of the dependant; or
(iii)	if there is not a parent or guardian of the dependant alive or willing and able to make, or approve a person to make, such an application on behalf of the dependant—by another person, being a person approved by the Commission.
(3)	Subsection (2) does not limit the application of section 126 in relation to applications for review under Part 4 of Chapter 8 of the MRCA.
137 Variation of pension assessment pending completion of review
If:
(a)	a request has been made under subsection 352J(8) of the MRCA (requests by Principal Member) in relation to a review; and
(b)	under subsection 352J(9) of that Act, the Board adjourns a hearing of the review; and
(c)	the review is of a decision with respect to a pension assessment;
the Board may vary the pension assessment pending the completion of the review, having regard to the records and evidence on which the Commission reached that decision.
154 Period of operation of certain decisions of Board
(1)	A decision of the Board on a review of a decision of the Commission of a kind referred to in paragraph 135(5)(a), (b), (c) or (d) shall, unless reviewed by the Administrative Review Tribunal and, subject to subsection (2) of this section, be binding upon the applicant and the Commission for a period of 6 months commencing on the day on which the Board makes that decision.
(2)	If, during the period referred to in subsection (1), the applicant is of the opinion that his or her incapacity has increased, subsection (1) does not prevent:
(a)	the applicant from making application under subsection 15(1) or (2) for an increased pension or for a pension; or
(b)	the grant of an increased pension, or a pension, from a date within that period, by the Commission upon its consideration of such an application or by the Board upon review of the decision of the Commission on such an application.
156 Date of operation of decision by Board
(1)	Except where:
(a)	the Board affirms the decision under review; or
(b)	the Board sets aside the decision under review and makes a decision in substitution for the decision set aside that has the effect only of revoking a decision of the Commission to cancel or suspend a pension;
the Board shall specify in its decision on a review the date from which its decision is to operate, being a date fixed in accordance with section 157.
(2)	Where the Board sets aside the decision under review and makes, in substitution for the decision set aside, a decision that has the effect only of revoking a decision of the Commission to cancel or suspend a pension, the decision to cancel or suspend the pension shall be deemed never to have had any force or effect.
157 Dates that may be specified
(1)	In this section:
Board’s decision, in relation to a review by the Board of a Commission’s decision, means the decision of the Board, upon its review of the Commission’s decision, setting aside the Commission’s decision and substituting another decision for it or varying the Commission’s decision, but does not include a decision of the Board affirming the Commission’s decision.
Commission’s decision, in relation to a review by the Board, means a decision of the Commission that has been reviewed by the Board.
substituted decision means a decision made by the Board in substitution for a decision of the Commission that has been set aside by the Board upon its review of that decision of the Commission.
varied decision means a decision of the Commission as varied by a decision of the Board upon its review of that decision of the Commission.
(2)	Where the Board, upon its review of a decision of the Commission, sets aside that decision and substitutes another decision for it, or varies that decision:
(a)	if the effect of the substituted decision, or the varied decision, as the case may be, is to grant a pension or attendant allowance to a person, the Board may fix, as the date from which the Board’s decision is to operate:
(i)	if the person made application for the review within 3 months after service on the person of a copy of the Commission’s decision—a date not earlier than the earliest date as from which the Commission could, if it had not refused to grant a pension or attendant allowance, as the case may be, to the person, have approved payment of a pension or of attendant allowance to the person; or
(ii)	in any other case—a date not more than 6 months before the date on which the person’s application for review of the Commission’s decision was received by the Board;
(b)	if the substituted decision, or the varied decision, as the case may be, is a decision of a kind specified in subsection (3)—the Board must remit the matter to the Commission to fix the date from which the Board’s decision is to operate, being the date of the first available pension pay-day occurring after the date on which a copy of the Board’s decision is given to the Commission under section 353B of the MRCA;
(c)	if the substituted decision, or the varied decision, as the case may be, has the effect of altering the description or nature of the war-caused injury or war-caused disease from which a veteran is suffering, or the description or nature of the defence-caused injury or defence-caused disease from which a member of the Forces or a member of a Peacekeeping Force is suffering—the Board may fix, as the date as from which that alteration is to operate, such date, being the date on which its decision is made or an earlier or later date, as it determines is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances; or
(d)	in any other case—the Board may fix, as the date as from which the Board’s decision is to operate, a date not earlier than the earliest date that the substituted decision, or varied decision, could have operated if it had been made by the Commission in place of the Commission’s decision.
(3)	The kinds of decisions specified in this subsection are:
(a)	a substituted decision or a varied decision that has the effect of reducing the rate at which a pension is to be paid (not being a pension that is suspended);
(b)	a substituted decision that has the effect of suspending a pension (not being a pension that has been cancelled or is suspended); and
(c)	a substituted decision that has the effect of cancelling a pension (not being a pension that is suspended).
(4)	Where a Board’s decision that sets aside a Commission’s decision and substitutes another decision for it, or that varies a Commission’s decision, is to operate as from a particular date, the substituted decision or the varied decision, as the case may be, shall operate as from the same date.
(4A)	If the Board, upon its review of a decision of the Commission, sets aside that decision and subparagraph 353A(4)(c)(iii) of the MRCA applies, the decision to set aside the Commission’s decision takes effect on the day the Board made its decision or an earlier or later date, as the Board determines is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
(5)	In this section, a reference to the cancellation of a pension shall be read as including a reference to the cancellation of a pension for the reason that the degree of incapacity of the veteran from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, or the degree of incapacity of the member of the Forces or of the member of a Peacekeeping Force, from defence-caused injury or defence-caused disease, or both, is less than 10 per centum (including nought per centum).
Part X—Review of decisions by Administrative Review Tribunal
174 Interpretation
(1)	In this Part, unless the contrary intention appears, reviewable decision means a decision in respect of which application may be made to the Administrative Review Tribunal under section 175.
Note:	See subsection 134(2) for decisions of the Board that are reviewable by the Administrative Review Tribunal.
(2)	In this Part:
veteran includes:
(a)	a Commonwealth veteran; and
(b)	an allied veteran; and
(c)	an Australian mariner; and
(d)	an allied mariner; and
(e)	a member of the Forces, or a member of a Peacekeeping Force, as defined by subsection 68(1).
175 Applications for review
(1A)	If the Commission under section 13AG makes a decision that a verification determination should not be made in respect of a person, the person may apply to the Administrative Review Tribunal for a review of the decision.
(2)	Where the Commission, under section 57B, affirms a decision of the Commission referred to in section 57 or sets it aside and substitutes another decision for it, a person may apply to the Administrative Review Tribunal for a review of the decision so affirmed or substituted.
(2A)	If the Commission, under section 64C, affirms a decision of the Commission referred to in that section or sets it aside and substitutes another decision, a person may apply to the Administrative Review Tribunal for review of the decision so affirmed or substituted.
(2B)	If the Commission under section 79U:
(a)	affirms a decision of the Commission referred to in subsection 79T(1); or
(b)	sets it aside and substitutes another decision for it;
a person may apply to the Administrative Review Tribunal for a review of the decision so affirmed or substituted.
(2C)	If the Commission, under section 93ZB, affirms a decision of the Commission referred to in section 93Z or sets it aside and substitutes another decision, a person may apply to the Administrative Review Tribunal for a review of the decision so affirmed or substituted.
(2D)	If the Commission, under section 118ZU, affirms a decision of the Commission referred to in section 118ZS or sets it aside and substitutes another decision for it, a person may apply to the Administrative Review Tribunal for a review of the decision so affirmed or substituted.
(2E)	A person’s right to apply to the Administrative Review Tribunal under any of subsections (1A) to (2D) is subject to section 34 of the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024.
Note:	Section 34 of the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024 deals with how to apply for review.
(4)	Where the Commission, under section 115, affirms a decision of the Commission in respect of an application for an allowance, payment or benefit referred to in subsection 115(1), or sets aside such a decision and substitutes another decision for it, then, subject to section 34 of the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024, application may be made to the Administrative Review Tribunal for a review:
(a)	of the decision so affirmed; or
(b)	of the decision made by the Commission under section 115 in substitution for the decision so set aside.
176 Application of Administrative Review Tribunal Act
(3)	Section 268 of the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024 does not apply to or in relation to a person whose interests are affected by a reviewable decision if:
(a)	the decision is of a kind referred to in subsection 175(2), (2A), (2D) or (4); and
(b)	the person has been served with a copy of that decision, and with the statement related to that decision, in accordance with section 57E, 64F, 118ZX or 140 of this Act, whichever was applicable.
(4)	Despite section 18 of the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024, an application to the Administrative Review Tribunal for review of a decision must be made within the period of 3 months after the applicant is given a document setting out the terms of the decision.
(4A)	Despite section 19 of the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024, the Administrative Review Tribunal must not extend the period during which an application may be made beyond the period of 12 months after the day on which the document setting out the terms of the decision was given to the applicant.
(5)	Despite subsection 22(1) of the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024, the parties to a proceeding before the Administrative Review Tribunal for a review of a reviewable decision are:
(a)	if the person who has applied for a review of the decision is a person other than the Commission:
(i)	the person who has so applied; and
(ii)	the Commission; or
(b)	in any other case:
(i)	the Commission; and
(ii)	the veteran, or dependant of a deceased veteran, affected by that decision.
(8)	Despite section 105 of the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024, where the Administrative Review Tribunal sets aside a decision:
(a)	to cancel or suspend a pension under section 56E; or
(b)	to reduce the rate of a pension under section 56D; or
(c)	to increase the rate of a pension under section 56C;
and the decision was one that was:
(d)	affirmed by the Commission under section 57B; or
(e)	made by the Commission in substitution for a decision set aside under section 57B;
the Tribunal need not make another decision in substitution for the decision set aside by it.
(9)	Despite section 105 of the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024, where the Administrative Review Tribunal:
(a)	sets aside a decision that a person ceases to be entitled to a seniors health card; and
(b)	the decision was one that was:
(i)	affirmed by the Commission under section 118ZU; or
(ii)	made by the Commission in substitution for a decision set aside under that section;
the Tribunal need not make another decision in substitution for the decision set aside by it.
(10)	Despite section 123 of the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024, an application cannot be made under that section to refer a decision of the Tribunal in relation to an application for review of a reviewable decision by the Board under Division 3 of Part IX of this Act.
177 Effective dates of certain determinations relating to payment of pension or seniors health card
(1)	This section is in addition to, and not in substitution for, section 108 of the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024 in its application to proceedings for a review by the Administrative Review Tribunal of a reviewable decision.
(2)	Where the Administrative Review Tribunal, upon application for a review of a decision of the Commission that has been affirmed or varied by a decision of the Board or a decision of the Board made in substitution for a decision of the Commission, grants a pension (not being a service pension or income support supplement) or attendant allowance, or increases the rate at which a pension (not being a service pension or income support supplement) is to be paid, the Tribunal may approve payment of the pension or of attendant allowance, or payment of the pension at the increased rate, as the case may be:
(a)	if the application is made within 3 months after service on the applicant of a document setting out the terms of that decision of the Board—from a date not earlier than the earliest date as from which the Board could, if it had granted a pension or attendant allowance or increased the rate of the pension, have approved payment of the pension or attendant allowance, or payment of the pension at an increased rate, as the case may be; or
(b)	in any other case:
(i)	if the review relates to a claim in accordance with section 14—from a date not more than 6 months before the date on which the application for review by the Tribunal was made; or
(ii)	if the review relates to an application in accordance with section 15, or to an application for attendant allowance—from the date on which the application for review by the Tribunal was made.
(3)	Where the Administrative Review Tribunal, on a review of a decision of a kind described in subsection 176(8) or (9), varies or sets aside that decision, the Administrative Review Tribunal may fix, as the date as from which its decision (including any decision made by it in substitution for the decision set aside) is to operate, a date, being:
(a)	if application for the review was made within 3 months after service on the applicant of a copy of the decision of the Board or the Commission, as the case may be—a date not earlier than the date as from which the decision under review was to operate; or
(b)	in any other case—a date not earlier than the date on which the application was made to the Administrative Review Tribunal.
(4)	Where the Administrative Review Tribunal fixes, as the date from which its decision to set aside a decision of the Commission, or of the Board, to cancel a pension is to have operated, a date (in this subsection referred to as the later date) after the date (in this subsection referred to as the earlier date) on which that pension was to be cancelled, that decision to cancel that pension shall, by force of this subsection, have effect, and be deemed to have had effect, as if it had not cancelled that pension but had suspended it from that earlier date until that later date.
(5)	Where the Administrative Review Tribunal, upon application made under subsection 175(2) for a review of a decision of the Commission under section 57B, grants a pension or increases the rate at which a pension is to be paid, the Tribunal may approve payment of the pension, or payment of the pension at the increased rate, as the case may be:
(a)	if the application is made within 3 months after the service on the applicant of a document setting out the terms of that decision of the Commission made under section 57B—from a date not earlier than the earliest date as from which the Commission could, if it had, on its review under section 57B, granted a pension or increased the rate of the pension, have approved payment of the pension, or payment of the pension at the increased rate, as the case may be; or
(b)	in any other case—from the date on which the application under subsection 175(2) was made.
(5A)	Subject to subsections (5B) and (5C), if the Administrative Review Tribunal, upon application made under subsection 175(2D) for a review of a decision of the Commission under section 118ZU, determines that a person is entitled to a seniors health card, the determination takes effect from a date specified by the Tribunal.
(5B)	If the application to the Administrative Review Tribunal is made within 3 months after the service on the applicant of a document setting out the terms of the decision of the Commission made under section 118ZU, the date specified by the Tribunal must not be earlier than the date from which, had the Commission determined that the person is entitled to a seniors health card, such a determination could have taken effect.
(5C)	If subsection (5B) does not apply to a person, the date specified by the Administrative Review Tribunal must not be earlier than the date on which the application under subsection 175(2D) was made.
(6)	Where the Administrative Review Tribunal, upon application under subsection 175(4) for a review of a decision made by the Commission with respect to an application for an allowance under section 97 or 104, grants the allowance referred to in that section, or increases the rate at which the allowance so referred to is to be paid, the Tribunal may approve payment of the allowance, or of the allowance at the increased rate, as the case may be:
(a)	if the application was made within 3 months after service on the applicant of a document setting out the terms of that decision—from a date not earlier than the earliest date as from which the Commission could, if it had not made that decision, have approved payment of the allowance, or payment of the allowance at the increased rate, as the case may be; or
(b)	in any other case—from the date on which the application under subsection 175(4) was made.
178 Period of operation of certain decisions of Administrative Review Tribunal
(1)	Where, on a review of a decision, the decision of the Administrative Review Tribunal expressly, or in effect:
(a)	assesses a rate of pension or increased rate of pension;
(b)	refuses to grant a pension, on the ground that the extent of the incapacity of the veteran was insufficient to justify the grant of such a pension;
(c)	refuses to increase the rate of a pension; or
(d)	reduces the rate of a pension;
that decision of the Administrative Review Tribunal shall, subject to subsection (2), be binding on the parties to the proceedings before that Tribunal for a period of 6 months commencing on the day on which that Tribunal makes the decision.
(2)	If, during the period referred to in subsection (1), the person to whom the pension is payable, or who was refused a pension, is of the opinion that his or her incapacity has increased, subsection (1) does not prevent:
(a)	the person from making application for an increased pension or for a pension; or
(b)	the grant of increased pension or of a pension, from a date within that period, by the Commission upon its consideration of such an application or by the Board on a review of the decision of the Commission on such an application.
(3)	In this section, pension does not include service pension or income support supplement.
Part XII—Miscellaneous
197A Saving and transitional provisions
The saving and transitional provisions in Schedule 5 have effect according to their terms.
197 Pensions etc. not for certain members of the Defence Force
(1)	A male indigenous inhabitant of the Territory of Papua or the Territory of New Guinea who served in the Defence Force during World War 2 at a rate of pay less than the minimum rate of pay that was prescribed as payable to a male member of the Australian Military Forces and whose services have been terminated by discharge or death, is not eligible:
(a)	to be paid pension under Part II, or service pension under Part III;
(b)	to be provided with treatment under Part V; or
(c)	to receive any allowances or other benefits under Part VI;
in respect of that service as a member of the Defence Force during World War 2.
(2)	A dependant of a person to whom subsection (1) applies, being a person who has died, is not eligible:
(a)	to be paid pension under Part II or a service pension under Part III;
(b)	to be provided with treatment under Part V; or
(c)	to receive any allowances or benefits under Part VI;
by reason only that the person served as a member of the Defence Force during World War 2.
198 Variation of rates of certain pensions
Definitions
(1)	In this section, unless the contrary intention appears:
above general rate means the following rates:
(a)	the rate under subsection 22(4);
(b)	the rate under subsection 23(4);
(c)	the rate under subsection 24(4).
adjustment day means 20 September or 20 March.
brought-forward CPI indexation amount for a relevant period means 0.007 less any reduction made under paragraph (5)(c) in relation to an earlier relevant period.
December quarter means a quarter ending on 31 December.
fortnightly MTAWE figure for a quarter means 1/26 of the annualised MTAWE figure for that quarter within the meaning of section 59EA.
index number, in relation to a quarter, means the All Groups Consumer Price Index number, being the weighted average of the 8 capital cities, published by the Statistician in respect of that quarter.
June quarter means a quarter ending on 30 June.
pension MBR factor means the pension MBR factor worked out under section 59LA.
relevant period means:
(a)	the period that started on 15 November 1989 and ended on 17 April 1990; and
(b)	the period that started on 18 April 1990 and ended on 19 September 1990; and
(c)	the period of 6 months that started on 20 September 1990; and
(d)	each later period of 6 months (other than the period of 6 months that started on 20 September 1992).
relevant rate means:
(d)	the rate specified in item 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 in the table in subsection 27(1) (in column 2);
(e)	the amount specified in paragraph 30(1)(c).
Statistician means the Australian Statistician.
Changes in index numbers
(2)	Subject to subsection (3), if at any time, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, the Statistician has published or publishes an index number in respect of a quarter in substitution for an index number previously published by the Statistician in respect of that quarter, the publication of the later index number shall be disregarded for the purposes of this section.
(3)	If at any time, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, the Statistician has changed or changes the index reference period for the consumer price index, then, for the purposes of the application of this section after the change took place or takes place, regard shall be had only to index numbers published in terms of the new index reference period.
Indexation of each relevant rate
(4)	Where the factor ascertained, in relation to a relevant period, in accordance with subsection (5) is greater than 1, this Act has effect as if for each relevant rate there were substituted, on the first day of that period:
(a)	subject to the other paragraphs of this subsection—a rate calculated by multiplying by that factor:
(i)	in the case to which subparagraph (ii) does not apply—the relevant rate; or
(ii)	if, by virtue of another application or several other applications of this section, this Act has had effect as if another rate were substituted, or other rates were successively substituted, for the relevant rate—the substituted rate or the last substituted rate, as the case may be;
(b)	where a relevant rate calculated in accordance with paragraph (a) (in this paragraph referred to as the calculated rate) is a rate per fortnight and is not a multiple of $0.10 per fortnight—a rate equal to:
(i)	if the calculated rate exceeds the next lower rate that is such a multiple by $0.05 per fortnight or more—the next higher rate that is such a multiple; or
(ii)	if the calculated rate exceeds the next lower rate that is such a multiple by less than $0.05 per fortnight—the next lower rate.
Note:	For indexation of each above general rate, see subsection (5E).
(5)	The factor to be ascertained for the purposes of subsection (4) in relation to a relevant period:
(a)	is the number, calculated to 3 decimal places, ascertained by dividing:
(i)	if the relevant period starts between 1 January and 30 June (inclusive)—the index number for the last preceding December quarter; or
(ii)	if the relevant period starts between 1 July and 31 December (inclusive)—the index number for the last preceding June quarter;
by the highest index number in respect of a December or June quarter that preceded that quarter, not being a December or June quarter that occurred before the June quarter in the year 1979; or
(b)	if the number so ascertained would, if it were calculated to 4 decimal places, end in a number greater than 4—is the number so ascertained increased by 0.001; or
(c)	if the relevant period starts on or after 20 March 2013 and the brought-forward CPI indexation amount for the period is more than 0—is the number worked out under paragraph (a) or (b) of this subsection reduced by that amount, but not below 1.
Indexation of general rate
(5DA)	This Act has effect as if, on each adjustment day, there were substituted, for the general rate, the rate worked out using the following formula and rounded up to the nearest $0.10:
Indexation of each above general rate
(5E)	This Act has effect as if, on each adjustment day, there were substituted, for each above general rate, the rate worked out using the following formula and rounded up to the nearest $0.10:
Indexation of rate in paragraph 30(1)(b)
(8A)	This Act has effect as if, on each adjustment day, there were substituted, for the rate in paragraph 30(1)(b), the rate worked out using the following formula and rounded up to the nearest $0.10:
Effect of indexation
(10)	Where, by virtue of the application of this section, this Act has effect as if another rate were substituted for a relevant rate or an above general rate on the first day of a relevant period, the substitution, in so far as it affects instalments of a pension under this Act, has effect in relation to every instalment of the pension that falls due on or after the first day of that period, as the case may be, but, if a pension is granted, or the rate of a pension is increased, after the first day of that period as from a date before the first day of that period, the substitution, in so far as it affects instalments of that pension, does not have effect in relation to an instalment of that pension in respect of a period that commenced before the first day of that period.
198A Variation of rates of orphan’s pension
(1)	In this section, unless the contrary intention appears:
index number, in relation to a quarter, means the All Groups Consumer Price Index number, being the weighted average of the 8 capital cities, published by the Australian Statistician in respect of that quarter.
relevant rate means the rate specified in paragraph 30(2)(a), (b) or (c).
year to which this section applies means 1990 and each subsequent year.
(2)	Subject to subsection (3), if at any time, whether before or after the commencement of this section, the Australian Statistician has published or publishes an index number in respect of a quarter in substitution for an index number previously published by the Australian Statistician in respect of that quarter, the publication of the later index number shall be disregarded for the purposes of this section.
(3)	If at any time, whether before or after the commencement of this section, the Australian Statistician has changed or changes the index reference period for the consumer price index, then, for the purposes of the application of this section after the change took place or takes place, regard shall be had only to index numbers published in terms of the new index reference period.
(4)	Where the factor worked out under subsection (5) in relation to a relevant rate in relation to a year to which this section applies is greater than 1, this Act, and any Act that refers to this Act, have effect as if for that relevant rate there were substituted, on the first day of that year:
(a)	subject to paragraph (b)—the rate worked out by multiplying by that factor:
(i)	where subparagraph (ii) does not apply—the relevant rate; or
(ii)	if, because of another application or other applications of this section, this Act has had effect as if another rate was substituted, or other rates were successively substituted, for the relevant rate—the substituted rate or the last substituted rate, as the case may be;
(b)	where the rate worked out under paragraph (a) is not a multiple of 10 cents per fortnight—a rate equal to:
(i)	if the rate so worked out exceeds the next lower rate that is such a multiple by 5 cents per fortnight or more—the next highest rate that is such a multiple; or
(ii)	if the rate so worked out exceeds the next lower rate that is such a multiple by less than 5 cents per fortnight—that next lower rate.
(5)	The factor to be worked out for the purposes of subsection (4) in relation to a year to which this section applies is:
(a)	in relation to 1990—the number, calculated to 3 decimal places, worked out by dividing the index number for the June quarter 1989 by the index number for the June quarter 1988;
(b)	in relation to each subsequent year—the number, calculated to 3 decimal places, worked out by dividing the index number for the last preceding June quarter by the highest index number in respect of an earlier June quarter, not being a June quarter that occurred before 1989; or
(c)	if the number worked out under paragraph (a) or (b) would, if it were calculated to 4 decimal places, end in a number greater than 4—the number so worked out increased by 0.001.
(6)	Where, because of the application of this section, this Act has effect as if another rate were substituted for a relevant rate on the first day of a year, the substitution, in so far as it affects instalments of pensions, benefits and allowances under this Act, has effect in relation to every instalment of such a pension, benefit or allowance that falls due on or after the first day of that year.
198D Variation of rates of certain allowances etc.
(1)	In this section, unless the contrary intention appears:
brought-forward CPI indexation amount for a year commencing on or after 20 September 2013 means 0.007 less any reduction made under paragraph (5)(d) for an earlier year.
index number, in relation to a quarter, means the All Groups Consumer Price Index number, being the weighted average of the 8 capital cities, published by the Australian Statistician for that quarter.
relevant rate means the rate specified in:
(a)	item 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 or 15 in the table in subsection 27(1) (in column 2); or
(b)	item 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 in the table in subsection 97(1) (in column 2); or
(c)	item 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 in the table in subsection 98(1) (in column 2); or
(d)	item 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10 in the table in subsection 104(1) (in column 2).
year to which this section applies means:
(a)	the year commencing on 20 September 1991; or
(b)	any later year commencing on 20 September.
(2)	Subject to subsection (3), if at any time, whether before or after the commencement of this section, the Australian Statistician has published or publishes an index number in respect of a quarter in substitution for an index number previously published by the Australian Statistician in respect of that quarter, the publication of the later index number is to be disregarded for the purposes of this section.
(3)	If at any time, whether before or after the commencement of this section, the Australian Statistician has changed or changes the index reference period for the consumer price index, then, for the purposes of the application of this section after the change took place or takes place, regard is to be had only to index numbers published in terms of the new index reference period.
(4)	Where the factor worked out under subsection (5) in relation to a relevant rate in relation to a year to which this section applies is greater than 1, this Act, and any Act that refers to this Act, have effect as if for that relevant rate there were substituted, on the first day of that year:
(a)	subject to paragraph (b)—the rate worked out by multiplying by that factor:
(i)	where subparagraph (ii) does not apply—the relevant rate; or
(ii)	if, because of another application or other applications of this section, this Act has had effect as if another rate was substituted, or other rates were successively substituted, for the relevant rate—the substituted rate or the last substituted rate, as the case may be; or
(b)	where the rate worked out under paragraph (a) is not a multiple of 10 cents per fortnight—a rate equal to:
(i)	if the rate so worked out exceeds the next lower rate that is such a multiple of 5 cents per fortnight or more—the next highest rate that is such a multiple; or
(ii)	if the rate so worked out exceeds the next lower rate that is such a multiple by less than 5 cents per fortnight—that next lower rate.
(5)	The factor to be worked out for the purposes of subsection (4) in relation to a year to which this section applies is:
(a)	in relation to the year commencing on 20 September 1991—the number, calculated to 3 decimal places, worked out by dividing the index number for the June quarter 1991 by the index number for the June quarter 1990; or
(b)	in relation to each subsequent year—the number calculated to 3 decimal places, worked out by dividing the index number for the last preceding June quarter by the highest index number in respect of an earlier June quarter, not being a June quarter that occurred before 1991; or
(c)	if the number worked out under paragraph (a) or (b) would, if it were calculated to 4 decimal places, end in a number greater than 4—the number so worked out increased by 0.001; or
(d)	if:
(i)	the year commences on or after 20 September 2013; and
(ii)	the factor is for multiplying a rate specified in item 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 or 15 in the table in subsection 27(1); and
(iii)	the brought-forward CPI indexation amount for the year is more than 0;
the number worked out under paragraph (b) or (c) of this subsection reduced by that amount, but not below 1.
(6)	Where, because of the application of this section, this Act has effect as if another rate were substituted for a relevant rate on the first day of a year to which this section applies, the substitution, in so far as it effects instalments of pensions and allowances under this Act, has effect in relation to every instalment of such a pension or an allowance that falls due on or after the first day of that year.
198E Variation of amount of essential medical equipment payment
(1)	This section applies to the dollar amount mentioned in section 63G (essential medical equipment payment).
(2)	That dollar amount, for an indexation day on which the indexation factor is greater than 1, is replaced by the amount that is worked out using the following formula:
(3)	The indexation factor for an indexation day is the number worked out using the following formula:
(4)	The indexation factor is to be calculated to 3 decimal places, but increased by 0.001 if the fourth decimal place is more than 4.
(5)	If an amount worked out under subsection (2) is not a multiple of a dollar, the amount is to be rounded to the nearest multiple of a dollar (rounding up in the case of 50 cents).
(6)	In this section:
indexation day means 1 July 2013 and each later 1 July.
198F Indexation of veterans supplement
(1)	This section applies to the dollar amount mentioned in the following provisions:
(a)	section 118C;
(b)	section 118D.
(2)	The dollar amount mentioned in that provision, for an indexation day on which the indexation factor is greater than one, is replaced by the amount that is worked out using the following formula:
(3)	The indexation factor for an indexation day is the number worked out using the following formula:
(4)	The indexation factor is to be calculated to 3 decimal places, but increased by 0.001 if the 4th decimal place is more than 4.
(5)	If an amount worked out under subsection (2) is not a multiple of 20 cents, the amount is to be rounded down to the nearest multiple of 20 cents.
(6)	In this section:
indexation day means 1 January 2010 and each later 1 January.
198FAA Indexation of seniors health card income limit
(1)	This section applies to the dollar amount mentioned in column 3 of item 1, 2, 3 or 4 of the table in point 118ZZA-11.
(2)	That dollar amount, for an indexation day on which the indexation factor is greater than 1, is replaced by the amount that is worked out using the following formula:
(3)	The indexation factor for an indexation day is the number worked out using the following formula:
(4)	The indexation factor is to be calculated to 3 decimal places, but increased by 0.001 if the fourth decimal place is more than 4.
(5)	If an amount worked out under subsection (2) is not a multiple of a dollar, the amount is to be rounded to the nearest multiple of a dollar (rounding up in the case of 50 cents).
(6)	In this section:
indexation day means 20 September 2014 and each later 20 September.
198FB Rates for service pension and income support supplement increased on 20 September 2009
Maximum basic rate for single person
(1)	This Act has effect as if, on 20 September 2009, the indexed amount substituted under section 59C for the amount specified in column 3 of item 1 of the table in point SCH6-B1 of Schedule 6 on that day were in turn replaced with an amount equal to the indexed amount plus $1,560.00.
Ceiling rate
(2)	This Act has effect as if, on 20 September 2009, the amount substituted under section 59LA for the amount specified in point SCH6-A4 of Schedule 6 on that day were in turn replaced with an amount worked out as follows:
Method statement
Step 1.	Work out the amount substituted under section 59LA for the amount specified in point SCH6-A4 of Schedule 6 on 20 September 2009 (apart from this subsection).
Step 2.	Work out what would have been the indexed rate substituted under section 198E for the rate of utilities allowance under column 3 of item 1 of the table in section 118OC on 20 September 2009 had those sections not been repealed.
Step 3.	Work out, on the assumption that section 198F and subsection 118SA(1) had not been repealed:
(a)	what would have been the rate substituted under that section for the rate payable under that subsection on 20 September 2009; or
(b)	if there would not have been such a substitution, the rate that would have been payable under that subsection on that day.
Note:	Subsection 118SA(1) dealt with telephone allowance for certain persons with internet connections at home.
Step 4.	Add up:
(a)	the results of steps 1, 2 and 3; and
(b)	$130.
Step 5.	If the result of step 4 is not a multiple of $2.60, round that result up to the nearest multiple of $2.60.
198G 1 July 2000 increase in certain amounts
(1)	This section applies to an amount (the base amount) that is provided for in a provision listed in column 2 of Table A.
Note:	Amounts provided for in provisions listed in Table A are amounts as altered from time to time under Division 18 of Part IIIB and sections 198, 198A, 198D and 198F (CPI indexation).
(2)	This Act has effect as if, on 1 July 2000, the base amount were replaced by an amount (the replacement amount) worked out by:
(a)	calculating the amount (the provisional replacement amount) that is 4% greater than the base amount; and
(b)	rounding off the provisional replacement amount in accordance with section 198M, using the rounding base for the base amount (see column 4 of Table A).
(3)	For the purposes of subsection (1), the base amount is to include any indexation that occurs on 1 July 2000 under Division 18 of Part IIIB or section 198, 198A, 198D or 198F.
Table A: Rates
Column 1
Item
Column 2
Provision providing for base amount
Column 3
Description of amount
Column 4
Rounding base for base amount
1
subsection 22(3)
disability pension (general)
0.10
2
subsection 23(4)
disability pension (intermediate)
0.10
3
subsection 24(4)
disability pension (special)
0.10
4
subsection 27(1)—table—items 1 to 6
disability pension (war-caused injury or disease)
0.10
5
subsection 27(1)—table—items 7 to 15
disability pension (war-caused injury or disease)
0.10
6
subsection 30(2)—all amounts
orphan pension
0.10
7
subsection 97(1)—table—column 2—all amounts
clothing allowance
0.10
8
subsection 98(1)—table—column 2—all amounts
attendant allowance
0.10
9
subsection 104(1)—table—column 2—all amounts
recreation transport allowance
0.10
10
subsection 118S(1)
telephone allowance
0.80
198GA 1 July 2000 increase in rent assistance amounts
(1)	This section applies to an amount (the base amount) of rent assistance that is provided for in column 4 of the table in subpoint SCH6-C8(1).
Note:	Amounts provided for in column 4 of the table in subpoint SCH6-C8(1) are amounts as altered from time to time under Division 18 of Part IIIB (CPI indexation).
(2)	This Act has effect as if, on 1 July 2000, the base amount were replaced by an amount (the replacement amount) worked out by:
(a)	calculating the amount (the provisional replacement amount) that is 10% greater than the base amount; and
(b)	rounding off the provisional replacement amount in accordance with section 198M, using the rounding base of $5.20.
198H Adjustment of amounts following 1 July 2000 increase
(1)	If an amount (the affected amount) is:
(a)	an amount described in the table in section 198G that is indexed under Division 18 of Part IIIB or under section 198, 198A, 198D or 198F; or
(b)	the amount described in section 198GA; or
(c)	a maximum basic rate provided for in point SCH6-B1; or
(d)	a pension supplement provided for in point SCH6-BA2; or
(e)	an amount provided for in paragraph 30(1)(a); or
(f)	a pension supplement provided for in subsection 30(1A);
this section applies to modify the way the amount is indexed under that Division or section (as the case may be) for a limited period after 19 March 2001.
Method statement
Step 1.	Work out the current figure for the affected amount on 19 March 2001.
Step 2.	Multiply the current figure by 0.02. The result is the provisional overall adjustment amount.
Step 3.	Round off the provisional overall adjustment amount in accordance with subsections (6) to (8), using:
(a)	for an affected amount described in the table in section 198G—the rounding base set out in that table for that amount; and
(b)	for the amount described in section 198GA—the rounding base of $5.20; and
(c)	for a maximum basic rate provided for in point SCH6-B1—the rounding base of $2.60; and
(d)	for a pension supplement provided for in point SCH6-BA2—the rounding base of $0.10; and
(e)	for an amount provided for in paragraph 30(1)(a)—the rounding base of $0.10; and
(f)	for a pension supplement provided for in subsection 30(1A)—the rounding base of $0.10.
The result is the overall adjustment amount.
Step 4.	For the first indexation day for an affected amount that occurs after 19 March 2001, subtract the current figure from the indexed amount (arrived at using the method statement in subsection 59C(2)). The result (which could be zero) is the first indexation increase amount.
Step 5.	Compare the overall adjustment amount with the first indexation increase amount. If the overall adjustment amount is equal to or less than the first indexation increase amount, go to step 6. If the overall adjustment amount is greater than the first indexation increase amount, go to step 9.
Step 6.	Subtract the overall adjustment amount from the indexed amount referred to in step 4.
Step 7.	If the indexed amount is a pension supplement, round off the result in accordance with subsections (6) to (8) (as if the amount were a provisional overall adjustment amount), using the rounding base of $2.60.
Step 8.	The result obtained under step 6 or step 7 (as the case requires) is taken to be the indexed amount for the purposes of step 5 of the method statement in subsection 59C(2) and this section has no further application in relation to the affected amount.
Note:	The indexed amount for the purposes of step 5 of the method statement in subsection 59C(2) may be increased under section 59EA in certain cases. Similarly, if the indexed amount is a rate worked out under section 198, that amount may be increased under subsection 198(6) or (7) in certain cases.
Step 9.	The indexed amount for the purposes of step 5 of the method statement in subsection 59C(2) is taken to be equal to the current figure worked out under step 2 of the method statement in subsection 59C(2). Go to step 10.
Note:	The indexed amount for the purposes of step 5 of the method statement in subsection 59C(2) may be increased under section 59EA in certain cases. Similarly, if the indexed amount is a rate worked out under section 198, that amount may be increased under subsection 198(6) or (7) in certain cases.
Step 10.	For the second indexation day for the affected amount that occurs after 19 March 2001, subtract the first indexation increase amount from the overall adjustment amount. The result is the remaining adjustment amount.
Step 11.	Subtract the current figure from the indexed amount (arrived at using the method statement in subsection 59C(2)). The result (which could be zero) is the second indexation increase amount.
Step 12.	Compare the remaining adjustment amount with the second indexation increase amount. If the remaining adjustment amount is equal to or less than the second indexation increase amount, go to step 13. If the remaining adjustment amount is greater than the second indexation increase amount, go to step 16.
Step 13.	Subtract the remaining adjustment amount from the indexed amount.
Step 14.	If the indexed amount is a pension supplement, round off the result in accordance with subsections (6) to (8) (as if the amount were a provisional overall adjustment amount), using the rounding base of $2.60.
Step 15.	The result obtained under step 13 or step 14 (as the case requires) is taken to be the indexed amount for the purposes of step 5 of the method statement in subsection 59C(2) and this section has no further application in relation to the affected amount.
Note:	The indexed amount for the purposes of step 5 of the method statement in subsection 59C(2) may be increased under section 59EA in certain cases. Similarly, if the indexed amount is a rate worked out under section 198, that amount may be increased under subsection 198(6) or (7) in certain cases.
Step 16.	The indexed amount for the purposes of step 5 of the method statement in subsection 59C(2) is taken to be equal to the current figure worked out under step 2 of the method statement in subsection 59C(2). Go to step 17.
Note:	The indexed amount for the purposes of step 5 of the method statement in subsection 59C(2) may be increased under section 59EA in certain cases. Similarly, if the indexed amount is a rate worked out under section 198, that amount may be increased under subsection 198(6) or (7) in certain cases.
Step 17.	Repeat the method set out in steps 10 to 16 in relation to the third indexation day and to subsequent indexation days until the remaining adjustment amount is zero.
Meaning of terms in method statement if amount is indexed under section 198, 198A, 198D or 198F
(2)	For the purposes of applying the Method statement in this section to an affected amount indexed under section 198, 198A, 198D or 198F, the following expressions used in the Method statement have the meanings set out below:
current figure, as at a particular time, means the rate most recently substituted for a relevant rate under section 198, 198A, 198D or 198F (as the case may be) before that time.
indexed amount means the rate worked out under subsection (4) of section 198, 198A, 198D or 198F (as the case may be).
Modifications to method statement if amount is indexed under section 198, 198A, 198D or 198F
(3)	If the affected amount is indexed under section 198, 198A, 198D or 198F, the following Steps in the Method statement in this section are to be read with the following modifications:
(a)	Step 4—as if the words “(arrived at using the Method statement in subsection 59C(2))” were omitted;
(b)	Step 8—as if the words “Step 5 of the Method statement in subsection 59C(2)” were omitted and the words “section 198, 198A, 198D or 198F (as the case may be)” were substituted;
(c)	Step 9—as if the words “Step 5 of the Method statement in subsection 59C(2) is taken to be equal to the current figure worked out under Step 2 of the Method statement in subsection 59C(2)” were omitted and the words “section 198, 198A, 198D or 198F (as the case may be) is taken to be equal to the current figure” were substituted;
(d)	Step 11—as if the words “arrived at using the Method statement in subsection 59C(2))” were omitted;
(e)	Step 15—as if the words “Step 5 of the Method statement in subsection 59C(2)” were omitted and the words “section 198, 198A, 198D or 198F (as the case may be)” were substituted;
(f)	Step 16—as if the words “Step 5 of the Method statement in subsection 59C(2) is taken to be equal to the current figure worked out under Step 2 of the Method statement in subsection 59C(2)” were omitted and the words “section 198, 198A, 198D or 198F (as the case may be) is taken to be equal to the current figure” were substituted.
Application of section 59EA
(4)	Section 59EA does not apply at Step 4 or Step 11 of the Method statement in this section.
Application of subsections 198(6) and (7)
(5)	Subsections 198(6) and (7) do not apply at Step 4 or Step 11 of the Method statement in this section.
Rounding of provisional overall adjustment amounts
(6)	If a provisional overall adjustment amount is a multiple of the rounding base, the provisional overall adjustment amount is the overall adjustment amount.
(7)	If a provisional overall adjustment amount is not a multiple of the rounding base, the overall adjustment amount is the provisional overall adjustment amount rounded up or down to the nearest multiple of the rounding base.
(8)	If a provisional overall adjustment amount is not a multiple of the rounding base, but is a multiple of half the rounding base, the overall adjustment amount is the provisional overall adjustment amount rounded up to the nearest multiple of the rounding base.
198J 1 July 2000 increase in income test free area
(1)	This section applies to an amount (the base amount) that is provided for in item 1, 2 or 3 of column 3 of the table in point SCH6-E6.
(2)	This Act has effect as if, on 1 July 2000, the base amount were replaced by an amount (the replacement amount) worked out by:
(a)	calculating the amount (the provisional replacement amount) that is 2.5% greater than the base amount; and
(b)	rounding off the provisional replacement amount in accordance with section 198M using a rounding base of $52.00.
(3)	For the purposes of subsection (1), the base amount is to include any indexation that occurs on 1 July 2000 under Division 18 of Part IIIB.
198K 1 July 2000 increase in assets test free area
(1)	This section applies to an amount (the base amount) that is provided for in:
(a)	item 1 or 2 of column 3A of the table in point SCH6-F3; or
(b)	item 2 of column 3B of the table in point SCH6-F3.
(2)	This Act has effect as if, on 1 July 2000, the base amount were replaced by an amount (the replacement amount) worked out by:
(a)	calculating the amount (the provisional replacement amount) that is 2.5% greater than the base amount; and
(b)	rounding off the provisional replacement amount in accordance with section 198M, using a rounding base of $250.00.
(3)	For the purposes of subsection (1), the base amount is to include any indexation that occurs on 1 July 2000 under Division 18 of Part IIIB.
198L 1 July 2000 increase in income/assets reduction limit
(1)	This section applies to an amount (the base amount) that is provided for in column 3 or 5 of the table in subsection 53E(2).
(2)	This Act has effect as if, on 1 July 2000, the base amount were replaced by an amount (the replacement amount) worked out by:
(a)	calculating the amount (the provisional replacement amount) that is 2.5% greater than the base amount; and
(b)	rounding off the provisional replacement amount in accordance with section 198M, using a rounding base of $2.60.
198M Rounding off provisional replacement amounts
(1)	If a provisional replacement amount is a multiple of the rounding base, the provisional replacement amount is the replacement amount.
(2)	If a provisional replacement amount is not a multiple of the rounding base, the replacement amount is the provisional replacement amount rounded up or down to the nearest multiple of the rounding base.
(3)	If a provisional replacement amount is not a multiple of the rounding base, but is a multiple of half the rounding base, the replacement amount is the provisional replacement amount rounded up to the nearest multiple of the rounding base.
198MA Adjustment of indexation factor under section 59D for limited time on and after 20 March 2013 for certain purposes
Application
(1)	This section applies for purposes connected with the following payments on or after 20 March 2013:
(a)	a service pension;
(b)	seniors supplement;
(c)	a pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to Division 4 of Part II or subsection 30(1);
(d)	Special Rate Disability Pension under the MRCA;
(e)	compensation under Division 2 (Compensation for member’s death for wholly dependent partners) of Part 2 of Chapter 5 of the MRCA.
Note 1:	Section 198 of the MRCA sets Special Rate Disability Pension by reference to the rate of pension under section 24 of this Act (so indexation of amounts affecting that rate also affects that pension).
Note 2:	Division 2 of Part 2 of Chapter 5 of the MRCA sets compensation under that Division by reference to the rate of pension under subsection 30(1) of this Act (so indexation of amounts affecting that rate also affects the compensation).
Adjustment of indexation factor
(2)	An indexation factor that:
(a)	is worked out under section 59D on a day that is on or after 20 March 2013; and
(b)	is directly or indirectly relevant to the indexation of an amount provided for by:
(i)	subsection 5GA(1) (which provides for the PS rate mentioned in table item 2 of section 59A); or
(ii)	subsection 5GA(2) (which provides for the PS minimum rate mentioned in table item 2A of section 59A); or
(iii)	subsection 5GA(4) (which provides for the PS basic rate mentioned in table item 2B of section 59A); or
(iv)	subsection 22(3) or (4), 23(4) or 24(4); or
(v)	paragraph 30(1)(a) or (b); or
(vi)	table item 2 of point SCH6-B1 of the Rate Calculator (which provides for the pension MBR mentioned in table item 1 of section 59A);
is, for the purposes of the indexation of such an amount on that day, to be reduced by the brought-forward CPI indexation amount, but not below 1.
Note 1:	An indexation factor worked out under section 59D is indirectly relevant to the indexation of an amount provided for by subsection 22(3) or (4), 23(4) or 24(4) or paragraph 30(1)(b). This is because:
(a)	section 198 provides for indexation of such an amount by reference to the pension MBR factor worked out under section 59LA; and
(b)	the pension MBR factor depends on the increase in the single pension rate MBR amount, which in turn depends (under section 59G) on indexation of the pension MBR amount under section 59C, which involves the indexation factor worked out under section 59D.
Note 2:	An indexation factor worked out under section 59D is indirectly relevant to the indexation of an amount provided for by paragraph 30(1)(a). This is because that amount is affected by indexation under section 59G, which in turn depends on indexation under section 59C.
Note 3:	Once the brought-forward CPI indexation amount becomes 0, there will be no further reduction of the indexation factor.
Example:	Assume that the indexation factor worked out under section 59D on 20 March 2013 is 1.005. The brought-forward CPI indexation amount in relation to 20 March 2013 is 0.007 (as there has been no previous reduction). That indexation factor is reduced to 1 on 20 March 2013.
Further assume that on 20 September 2013 the indexation factor is 1.010. The brought-forward CPI indexation amount in relation to 20 September 2013 is 0.002. That indexation factor is reduced to 1.008 on 20 September 2013.
The brought-forward CPI indexation amount in relation to later indexation days is now 0 so there is no further reduction of the indexation factor.
Definition of brought-forward CPI indexation amount
(3)	In this section:
brought-forward CPI indexation amount for a day means:
(a)	0.007 less any reduction made under subsection (2) for an earlier day; or
(b)	0 if the brought-forward PBLCI indexation amount for the day under section 198MB is 0.
198MB Adjustment of living cost indexation factor for limited time on and after 20 March 2013 for certain purposes
Application
(1)	This section applies for purposes connected with the following payments on or after 20 March 2013:
(a)	a service pension;
(b)	a pension under Part II or IV at a rate determined under or by reference to section 22, 23 or 24 or subsection 30(1);
(c)	Special Rate Disability Pension under the MRCA;
(d)	compensation under Division 2 (Compensation for member’s death for wholly dependent partners) of Part 2 of Chapter 5 of the MRCA.
Note 1:	Section 198 of the MRCA sets Special Rate Disability Pension by reference to the rate of pension under section 24 of this Act (so indexation of amounts affecting that rate also affects that pension).
Note 2:	Division 2 of Part 2 of Chapter 5 of the MRCA sets compensation under that Division by reference to the rate of pension under subsection 30(1) of this Act (so indexation of amounts affecting that rate also affects the compensation).
Adjustment of living cost indexation factor
(2)	A living cost indexation factor that:
(a)	is worked out under section 59EAB on a day that is on or after 20 March 2013; and
(b)	is directly or indirectly relevant to the indexation of an amount provided for by:
(i)	subsection 22(3) or (4), 23(4) or 24(4); or
(ii)	paragraph 30(1)(a) or (b); or
(iii)	table item 2 of point SCH6-B1 of the Rate Calculator (which provides for the pension MBR mentioned in table item 1 of section 59A);
is, for the purposes of the indexation of such an amount on that day, to be reduced by the brought-forward PBLCI indexation amount, but not below 1.
Note 1:	A living cost indexation factor worked out under section 59EAB is indirectly relevant to the indexation of an amount provided for by subsection 22(3) or (4), 23(4) or 24(4) or paragraph 30(1)(b). This is because:
(a)	section 198 provides for indexation of such an amount by reference to the pension MBR factor worked out under section 59LA; and
(b)	the pension MBR factor depends on the increase in the single pension rate MBR amount, which in turn depends (under section 59G) on indexation of the pension MBR amount under section 59C, which may involve the living cost indexation factor worked out under section 59EAB.
Note 2:	A living cost indexation factor worked out under section 59EAB is indirectly relevant to the indexation of an amount provided for by paragraph 30(1)(a). This is because that amount is affected by indexation under section 59G, which in turn depends on indexation under section 59C.
Note 3:	Once the brought-forward PBLCI indexation amount becomes 0, there will be no further reduction of the living cost indexation factor.
Example:	Assume that the living cost indexation factor worked out under section 59EAB on 20 March 2013 is 1.005. The brought-forward PBLCI indexation amount in relation to 20 March 2013 is 0.007 (as there has been no previous reduction). That living cost indexation factor is reduced to 1 on 20 March 2013.
Further assume that on 20 September 2013 the living cost indexation factor is 1.010. The brought-forward PBLCI indexation amount in relation to 20 September 2013 is 0.002. That living cost indexation factor is reduced to 1.008 on 20 September 2013.
The brought-forward PBLCI indexation amount in relation to later indexation days is now 0 so there is no further reduction of the indexation factor.
Definition of brought-forward PBLCI indexation amount
(3)	In this section:
brought-forward PBLCI indexation amount for a day means:
(a)	0.007 less any reduction made under subsection (2) for an earlier day; or
(b)	0 if the brought-forward CPI indexation amount for the day under section 198MA is 0.
198N Cancellation of entitlement to pension
(1)	This section applies if, because of subsection 4(6) or (8B) of the Veterans’ Entitlements (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 1986, a pension is payable to a person, including a pension whose rate has been reduced to nil.
(2)	Despite section 4 of that Act, the pension is not payable to the person on or after 22 September 2009.
(3)	However, the person is entitled to receive a lump sum payment, to be paid on or after 24 September 2009, equal to 3 years’ worth of the pension, calculated according to the rate at which the person’s last pension payment was paid.
(4)	Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply to a person who is paid a pension on the basis that the person was, at the time section 66 of the Repatriation Legislation Amendment Act 1985 came into force, without adequate means of support.
199 Appropriation
The Consolidated Revenue Fund is appropriated to the extent necessary for the payment of:
(a)	pensions granted under Part II, III, IIIA or IV; and
(aa)	veteran payments; and
(b)	medical and other treatment services provided under Part V; and
(ba)	costs the Commission has accepted financial responsibility for as mentioned in subsection 84(3A); and
(c)	allowances and other pecuniary benefits granted under this Act, being allowances and benefits the rates or amounts of which, or the maximum rates or amounts of which, are fixed by, or calculated under:
(i)	this Act; or
(ii)	the regulations; or
(iii)	any other legislative instrument made under this Act; and
(d)	assistance or benefits granted under section 106 that are of a similar nature to pensions referred to in paragraph (a), to services referred to in paragraph (b) or to allowances or benefits referred to in paragraph (c); and
(e)	assistance or benefits granted under an instrument made under section 115S; and
(f)	amounts for the purpose of giving effect to arrangements entered into under section 203 (International arrangements).
203 International arrangements
(1)	The Minister may, on behalf of the Commonwealth, enter into an arrangement with a foreign country, being an arrangement:
(a)	that relates to reciprocity in veterans’ affairs matters; and
(b)	that makes provision for and in relation to the making of payments, or the provision of treatment or rehabilitation, to or in relation to classes of persons specified in the arrangement.
(2)	Without limiting subsection (1), the arrangement may make provision for and in relation to the making of payments that are, or the provision of treatment or rehabilitation that is, comparable to payments or treatment or rehabilitation under any of the following:
(a)	this Act;
(b)	the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 2004;
(c)	the Australian Participants in British Nuclear Tests and British Commonwealth Occupation Force (Treatment) Act 2006;
(d)	the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation (Defence-related Claims) Act 1988;
(e)	the Treatment Benefits (Special Access) Act 2019.
Provisions of arrangement have full effect
(3)	The provisions of an arrangement that is in force under this section have effect despite anything in any of the Acts referred to in subsection (2).
Administration of arrangement
(4)	The Commission may give effect to and administer an arrangement that is in force under this section.
Variation or revocation of arrangement
(5)	An arrangement that is in force under this section may be varied or revoked by the Minister on behalf of the Commonwealth.
Publication of arrangement
(6)	The Minister must arrange for a copy of an arrangement entered into under subsection (1), or of any variations to such an arrangement, to be published on the Department’s website.
Arrangement is not a legislative instrument
(7)	An arrangement entered into under subsection (1) is not a legislative instrument.
204 Debt recovery relating to payment of comparable foreign pension
(1)	This section applies if:
(a)	an amount (the affected amount) was paid to a person by way of a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment in respect of a particular period; and
(b)	another amount (the lump sum) was paid as a lump sum:
(i)	to the person; or
(ii)	to the person’s partner, if the person is a member of a couple;
by way of a payment of arrears of a comparable foreign pension in respect of that period; and
(c)	assuming that the lump sum had been paid by way of periodical payments of the comparable foreign pension in respect of that period, the affected amount would have been reduced.
(2)	The amount by which the affected amount would have been reduced is a debt due by the person to the Commonwealth.
(3)	Section 46A does not apply to the person in respect of the lump sum.
205 Recovery of overpayments
(1)	This section applies where:
(a)	in consequence of a false statement or representation, or of a failure or omission to comply with this Act, the regulations or any other legislative instrument made under this Act, an amount has been paid by way of pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit under this Act that would not have been paid but for the false statement or representation or but for the failure or omission; or
(b)	an amount has been paid to a person under a prescribed educational scheme that was not lawfully so payable; or
(c)	an amount has purported to have been paid by way of pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit under this Act, the Social Security Act, the Social Security Act 1947 or the Seamen’s War Pensions and Allowances Act 1940 that was not lawfully so payable; or
(ca)	an amount has been paid by way of family assistance under the family assistance law that was not lawfully so payable; or
(cb)	an amount has purported to have been paid by way of parental leave pay that was not lawfully so payable; or
(cd)	an amount of compensation (within the meaning of the MRCA) has been paid under the MRCA that should not have been paid; or
(d)	an amount has been paid, whether before or after the commencement of section 32 of the Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1988, by way of pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit under this Act, the Social Security Act, the Social Security Act 1947 or the Seamen’s War Pensions and Allowances Act 1940, and the payment of that amount has since become an unauthorised payment; or
(e)	a person has incurred a debt under another Act (whether before or after the commencement of this paragraph) for failing to repay part or all of an amount that has been paid as described in paragraph (b); or
(f)	a person has incurred a debt under the Social Security Act 1991 (whether before or after the commencement of this paragraph) for failing to repay part or all of an amount that has been paid as described in paragraph (c) or (d); or
(fa)	a person has incurred a debt under subsection 204(2); or
(g)	a person has received an advance payment of pension under Part II, III or IV or of income support supplement.
(1AB)	If:
(a)	a person has received an advance payment of a pension under Part II, III or IV or of an income support supplement; and
(b)	the pension or income support supplement ceases to be payable to the person; and
(c)	at the time when the pension or income support supplement ceases to be payable the person has not repaid the whole of the advance payment;
the amount that has not been repaid is a debt due to the Commonwealth.
(1A)	Where this section applies, the recoverable amount shall, subject to section 205AA and unless the Commission takes action under paragraph 206(1)(a) or (b) in respect of that amount, be recovered in any one or more of the ways provided by subsections (1B), (1C) and (1D) and section 205A.
(1B)	A recoverable amount may be recovered by deductions under subsection (2).
(1C)	A recoverable amount, other than an excluded amount, may be recovered:
(a)	by proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction from the person to whom, or on whose account, the amount was paid, or from the estate of that person, as a debt due to the Commonwealth; or
(b)	partly by proceedings referred to in paragraph (a) and partly by deductions under subsection (2).
(1D)	A recoverable amount may be recovered by instalments in accordance with a determination made under paragraph 206(1)(c).
(2)	If:
(a)	an amount (overpayment) has been paid as described in paragraph (1)(a), (b), (c), (ca), (cb), (cd) or (d) to a person; or
(b)	a person has incurred a debt as described in paragraph (1)(e), (f) or (fa) or subsection (1AB);
an amount not exceeding the amount of the overpayment or debt may (whether or not proceedings have been instituted in a court to recover the overpayment or debt) be recovered by deductions:
(c)	from a pension, allowance or pecuniary benefit payable to that person under this Act; or
(d)	from any amount that, because of the person’s death is to be dealt with in accordance with sections 123A to 123E (inclusive); or
(e)	with the consent of another person, from any pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit payable to that other person under this Act;
but the total amount recovered, whether by deduction or by proceedings in a court or both, is not to exceed the amount of the overpayment or debt.
(3)	Where deductions have commenced to be made under subsection (2) to recover an amount (in this subsection referred to as the overpayment) but the whole of the overpayment has not been recovered at the end of the period applicable under subsection 206(2), to the institution of proceedings to recover the overpayment, deductions may continue to be made under subsection (2) of this section until the balance of the overpayment has been recovered, notwithstanding that the period during which proceedings may be instituted to recover the balance of the overpayment has expired.
(7)	The payment of an amount paid by way of pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit becomes an unauthorised payment if:
(a)	the decision pursuant to which the payment was made is:
(i)	set aside; or
(ii)	varied, so that a lesser amount, or no amount, is payable by way of pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit;
by any person, body, tribunal or court; and
(b)	the setting aside or variation has effect from the date, or from a date earlier than the date, of the payment.
(8)	In this section:
excluded amount means:
(a)	a recoverable amount arising by virtue of the payment of an amount as mentioned in paragraph (1)(b); or
(b)	a recoverable amount arising by virtue of the payment of an amount as mentioned in paragraph (1)(c) or (d) under the Social Security Act or the Social Security Act 1947; or
(ba)	a recoverable amount arising by virtue of the payment of an amount as mentioned in paragraph (1)(ca), (cb) or (cd); or
(c)	a recoverable amount arising because of a debt incurred as mentioned in paragraph (1)(e), (f) or (fa) or subsection (1AB).
family assistance has the same meaning as in the A New Tax System (Family Assistance) Act 1999.
family assistance law has the same meaning as in the A New Tax System (Family Assistance) (Administration) Act 1999.
prescribed educational scheme means:
(a)	the Aboriginal Overseas Study Assistance Scheme; or
(b)	the ABSTUDY Scheme; or
(c)	the Assistance for Isolated Children Scheme; or
(e)	the English as a Second Language Allowance Scheme; or
(f)	the Post-graduate Awards Scheme; or
(g)	the scheme to provide an allowance known as the Adult Migrant Education Program Living Allowance; or
(h)	the scheme to provide an allowance known as the Maintenance Allowance for Refugees; or
(j)	a scheme prescribed for the purposes of this definition.
recoverable amount means:
(a)	where an amount has been paid as mentioned in paragraph (1)(a), (b), (c), (ca), (cb) or (cd)—an amount equal to that amount; or
(b)	where an amount has been paid as mentioned in paragraph (1)(d) pursuant to a decision that is set aside as mentioned in subsection (7)—an amount equal to that amount; or
(c)	where an amount has been paid as mentioned in paragraph (1)(d) pursuant to a decision that is varied as mentioned in subsection (7)—an amount equal to the amount by which the amount paid exceeded the amount payable under the decision as varied; or
(d)	if a debt of a kind referred to in paragraph (1)(e), (f) or (fa) or subsection (1AB) has been incurred by a person—an amount equal to the amount of the debt.
205AAA Notices in respect of debt
(1)	If:
(a)	a recoverable amount has not been wholly paid to the Commonwealth; and
(b)	the right of the Commonwealth to recover the outstanding amount has not been waived under paragraph 206(1)(b);
the Commission must give the person to whom, or on whose account, the recoverable amount was paid a notice specifying:
(c)	the date on which it was issued (the date of the notice); and
(d)	the reason the outstanding amount was incurred, including a brief explanation of the circumstances that led to the outstanding amount being incurred; and
(e)	the period to which the outstanding amount relates; and
(f)	the outstanding amount at the date of the notice; and
(g)	the day on which the outstanding amount is due and payable; and
(h)	that a range of options is available for repayment of the outstanding amount; and
(i)	the contact details for inquiries concerning the outstanding amount.
(2)	The outstanding amount is due and payable on the 28th day after the date of the notice.
(3)	If the recoverable amount has not been wholly paid and:
(a)	the person has failed to enter into an arrangement with the Commission to pay the outstanding amount; or
(b)	the person has entered into such an arrangement with the Commission but has failed to make a payment in accordance with the arrangement or, if the arrangement has been amended, in accordance with the arrangement as amended;
the Commission may give to the person a further notice specifying:
(c)	the date on which it was issued (the date of the further notice); and
(d)	the matters mentioned in paragraphs (1)(d) to (i); and
(e)	the effect of section 205AAB and 205AAD; and
(f)	how the interest under section 205AAB is to be calculated.
(4)	A notice given under subsection (1) may also specify the matters mentioned in paragraphs (3)(e) and (f) and, if it does so, it is taken also to be a further notice given under subsection (3).
205AAB Interest on debt
(1)	This section applies to a person who:
(a)	receives a further notice given under subsection 205AAA(3); and
(b)	is not in receipt of a pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit under this Act or the social security law.
(2)	If:
(a)	the person has not entered into an arrangement with the Commission, on or before the final payment day, to pay the outstanding amount of the recoverable amount; and
(b)	the Commission has notified the person in writing that he or she will be required to pay interest under this subsection;
the person is liable to pay interest:
(c)	from and including the first day after the final payment day until the recoverable amount is wholly paid; and
(d)	at the penalty interest rate;
on the outstanding amount from time to time.
(2A)	Under this section, a person is not liable to pay interest on an outstanding amount, or the proportion of an outstanding amount, that was incurred because of an administrative error made by the Commonwealth or an agent of the Commonwealth.
(3)	If:
(a)	the person has entered into an arrangement with the Commission to pay the outstanding amount of the recoverable amount; and
(b)	the person has failed to make a particular payment in accordance with the arrangement; and
(c)	the Commission has notified the person in writing that he or she will be required to pay interest under this subsection;
the person is liable to pay interest:
(d)	if the failure occurs on or before the final payment day—from and including the first day after the final payment day until the recoverable amount is wholly paid; or
(e)	if the failure occurs after the final payment day—from and including the day after the day in respect of which the last payment in respect of the recoverable amount was made until the recoverable amount is wholly paid;
at the penalty interest rate, on the outstanding amount from time to time.
(4)	For the purposes of subsections (2) and (3), the final payment day is the later of the following days:
(a)	the 90th day after the day on which the outstanding amount of the recoverable amount was due and payable;
(b)	the 28th day after the date of the further notice given under subsection 205AAA(3).
(5)	The interest payable on the outstanding amount of a recoverable amount is a debt due to the Commonwealth and may be recovered as if it were a recoverable amount for the purposes of section 205.
(6)	If:
(a)	interest is payable on the outstanding amount of a recoverable amount; and
(b)	an amount is paid for the purpose of paying the recoverable amount and the interest;
the amount so paid is to be applied as follows:
(c)	until the recoverable amount (excluding interest) is fully paid—in satisfaction of the outstanding amount of the recoverable amount that is due when the payment is made;
(d)	after the recoverable amount (excluding interest) is fully paid—in satisfaction of the interest that had become payable on the outstanding amount of the recoverable amount before the recoverable amount was fully paid.
205AAC Determination that interest not to be payable
(1)	The Commission may determine that interest is not payable, or is not payable in respect of a particular period, by a person on the outstanding amount of a recoverable amount.
(1A)	The Commission may make a determination under this section in circumstances that include (but are not limited to) the Commission being satisfied that the person has a reasonable excuse for:
(a)	failing to enter into an arrangement to pay the outstanding amount; or
(b)	having entered an arrangement, failing to make a payment in accordance with that arrangement.
(2)	The determination may relate to a period before, or to a period that includes a period before, the making of a determination.
(3)	The determination may be expressed to be subject to the person complying with one or more specified conditions.
(4)	If the person has been notified under subsection 205AAB(2) or (3) that he or she will be required to pay interest under that subsection, the Commission must give written notice of the determination to the person as soon as practicable after the determination is made.
(5)	Contravention of subsection (4) does not invalidate a determination.
(6)	If:
(a)	the determination is expressed to be subject to the person complying with one or more specified conditions; and
(b)	the person contravenes a condition or conditions without reasonable excuse;
the determination ceases to have effect from and including the day on which the contravention or the earliest of the contraventions occurred.
(7)	The Commission may cancel or vary the determination by written notice given to the person.
205AAD Administrative charge
(1)	When a person first becomes liable to pay interest under section 205AAB in respect of the outstanding amount of a particular recoverable amount, the person is liable to pay an administrative charge of $50 in respect of the outstanding amount.
(2)	An administrative charge payable by a person is a debt due to the Commonwealth and may be recovered as if it were a recoverable amount for the purposes of section 205.
205AAE Penalty interest rate
(1)	The penalty interest rate is:
(a)	3% per year; or
(b)	if another percentage is determined in an instrument under subsection (2)—that percentage per year.
(2)	The Minister may, by legislative instrument, determine a percentage for the purposes of paragraph (1)(b).
205AA Recovery of overpayment by deduction from other pension, benefit or allowance
Where:
(a)	a pension, veteran payment or allowance (the new payment) becomes payable, or becomes payable at an increased rate, to a person under this Act from a date (in this section called the operative date), being the date on which the decision to grant the new payment, or to increase the rate of the new payment, is made (in this section called the date of the decision), or a date before or after the date of the decision;
(b)	the person has been paid before, or is paid on or after, the date of the decision:
(i)	a pension, veteran payment or allowance under this Act or under the provisions of any other Act administered by the Minister; or
(ii)	a pension, benefit or allowance under the Social Security Act or the Social Security Act 1947;
(the existing payment) in respect of a period commencing on or after the operative date; and
(c)	an amount, or amounts, of the existing payment has or have been paid, in respect of a period commencing on or after the operative date, that would not have been paid if the new payment had then been payable, or payable at the higher rate, as the case may be;
an amount equal to the amount, or sum of the amounts, of the existing payment paid to the person that would not have been paid to the person shall, unless the Commission takes action under paragraph 206(1)(a) or (b) in respect of that amount, be deducted, either in a lump sum or by instalments, as the Commission determines, from amounts of the new payment payable to the person.
205AB Recovery of certain amounts from financial institutions
(1)	If:
(a)	a payment or payments of a pension, benefit or other pecuniary amount are made to a financial institution for the credit of an account kept with the institution; and
(b)	the Commission is satisfied that the payment or payments were intended to be made for the benefit of someone who was not the person or one of the persons in whose name or names the account was kept;
the Commission may give a written notice to the institution setting out the matters mentioned in paragraphs (a) and (b) and requiring the institution to pay to the Commonwealth, within a period (being a reasonable period) stated in the notice, the lesser of the following amounts:
(c)	an amount specified in the notice, being the amount, or the sum of the amounts, of the payment or payments;
(d)	the amount standing to the credit of the account when the notice is given to the institution.
(2)	If:
(a)	a payment or payments of a pension, benefit or other pecuniary amount that are intended for the benefit of a person are made to a financial institution for the credit of an account that was kept with the institution by the person or by the person and one or more other persons; and
(b)	the person died before the payment or payments were made;
the Commission may give a written notice to the institution setting out the matters mentioned in paragraphs (a) and (b) and requiring the institution to pay to the Commonwealth, within a period (being a reasonable period) stated in the notice, the lesser of the following amounts:
(c)	an amount specified in the notice, being the amount, or the sum of the amounts, of the payment or payments;
(d)	the amount standing to the credit of the account when the notice is received by the institution.
(2A)	As soon as possible after issuing a notice under subsection (2), the Commission must inform the deceased estate in writing of:
(a)	the amount sought to be recovered from the deceased person’s account; and
(b)	the reasons for the recovery action.
(3)	A financial institution must comply with a notice given to it under subsection (1) or (2).
Penalty:	300 penalty units.
(4)	It is a defence to a prosecution of a financial institution for failing to comply with a notice given to it under subsection (1) or (2) if the financial institution proves that it was incapable of complying with the notice.
(5)	If a notice is given to a financial institution under subsection (1) (payment made to wrong account) or under subsection (2) (death of person in whose name the account was kept) in respect of a payment or payments of a pension, benefit or other pecuniary amount, any amount recovered by the Commonwealth from the institution in respect of the debt reduces any debt owed to the Commonwealth by any other person in respect of the payment or payments.
205A Commission may take action in relation to money owing to pensioners
(1)	Where a person (in this subsection called the pensioner) is indebted to the Commonwealth under or as a result of this Act, the Commission may, by notice in writing given to a person:
(a)	by whom any money is due or accruing or may become due to the pensioner;
(b)	who holds or may subsequently hold money for or on account of the pensioner;
(c)	who holds or may subsequently hold money on account of some other person for payment to the pensioner; or
(d)	who has authority from some other person to pay money to the pensioner;
require the person to whom the notice is given to pay to the Commonwealth:
(e)	an amount specified in the notice, not exceeding the amount of the debt due by the pensioner under or as a result of this Act or the amount of the money referred to in the preceding paragraph that is applicable; or
(f)	such amount as is specified in the notice out of each payment that the person becomes liable from time to time to make to the pensioner until that debt is satisfied.
(2)	The time for making a payment in compliance with a notice under subsection (1) is such time as is specified in the notice, not being a time before the money concerned becomes due or is held or before the end of the period of 14 days after the notice is given.
(3)	A person who fails to comply with a notice under subsection (1) commits an offence.
Penalty:
(a)	in the case of a natural person—imprisonment for 12 months or 20 penalty units, or both; or
(b)	in the case of a body corporate—100 penalty units.
(3A)	Subsection (3) does not apply to the extent that the person is not capable of complying with the notice.
Note:	The defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in subsection (3A). See subsection 13.3(3) of the Criminal Code.
(4)	Where the Commission gives a notice to a person under subsection (1), the Commission shall give a copy of the notice to the pensioner concerned.
(5)	A person who makes a payment to the Commonwealth in compliance with a notice under subsection (1) shall be deemed to have made the payment under the authority of the pensioner concerned and of any other person concerned.
(6)	Where:
(a)	a notice is given to a person under subsection (1) in respect of a debt due by a pensioner; and
(b)	an amount is paid by a person other than the first-mentioned person in reduction or in satisfaction of the debt;
the Commission shall notify the first-mentioned person accordingly, and the amount specified in the notice shall be deemed to be reduced by the amount so paid.
(7)	Where, apart from this subsection, money is not due or repayable on demand to a person unless a condition is fulfilled, the money shall be taken, for the purposes of this section, to be due or repayable on demand, as the case may be, notwithstanding that the condition has not been fulfilled.
(8)	Where:
(a)	a notice is given to a person under subsection (1) in respect of a debt due by a pensioner; and
(b)	the person fails to comply with the notice to the extent that the person is capable of doing so;
an amount equal to:
(c)	so much of the amount required by the notice to be paid by the person as the person was able to pay; or
(d)	so much of the debt due by the pensioner at the time when the notice was given as remains due from time to time;
whichever is the lesser, is a debt due by the person to the Commonwealth.
(9)	Where:
(a)	a person is indebted to the Commonwealth under subsection (8) in respect of a debt due by a pensioner; and
(b)	the Commonwealth recovers:
(i)	the whole or a part of the debt due by the person under subsection (8); or
(ii)	the whole or a part of the debt due by the pensioner;
the debt due by the pensioner, and the debt due by the person, are reduced by the amount so recovered and the amount specified in the notice under subsection (1) shall be deemed to be reduced by the amount so recovered.
(10)	A reference in this section to a person includes a reference to the Commonwealth, a State, a Territory and any authority of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory.
205B Certain decisions of Commission reviewable under Social Security Act etc.
(1)	This section applies to the following decisions of the Commission made in relation to an amount paid, or purported to have been paid, by way of pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit under the Social Security Act or the Social Security Act 1947 (in this section called the social security amount):
(a)	a decision to recover a recoverable amount in relation to the social security amount by deductions under subsection 205(2);
(b)	a decision to give a notice to a person under section 205A in respect of a debt due to the Commonwealth in relation to the payment of the social security amount.
(2)	A decision to which this section applies shall be taken for the purposes of the Social Security Act to be a decision made under that Act by an officer (other than the Secretary) of the Department administered by the Minister administering that Act.
206 Waiver etc. of debts
(1)	The Commission may, on behalf of the Commonwealth, by determination in writing:
(a)	write off debts arising under or as a result of this Act, or debts arising under or as a result of this Act that are included in a class of debts specified by the Minister by notice in writing published in the Gazette;
(b)	waive or defer the right of the Commonwealth:
(i)	to recover from a person the whole or a part of a debt that is payable by the person under or as a result of this Act; or
(ii)	to recover debts under or as a result of this Act included in a class of debts specified by the Minister by notice in writing published in the Gazette; or
(c)	allow an amount that is payable by a person to the Commonwealth under or as a result of this Act to be paid in instalments.
(2)	Proceedings for the recovery from a person of any amount that is payable by the person to the Commonwealth under or as a result of this Act are not to be commenced after the end of the period of 6 years starting on the first day on which an officer becomes aware, or could reasonably be expected to have become aware, of the circumstances that gave rise to the debt.
208 Offences
(1)	A person shall not:
(a)	intentionally make, whether orally or in writing, a false or misleading statement:
(i)	in connection with, or in support of, a claim or application made under this Act by that person or by another person for a pension, allowance or other benefit or for an increased pension, allowance or other benefit; or
(ia)	in connection with the consideration of the eligibility of the person or another person for a veteran payment; or
(ii)	with the intention of deceiving an officer doing duty in relation to this Act; or
(iii)	with the intention of affecting the rate of a pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit payable under this Act; or
(b)	intentionally obtain:
(i)	payment of a pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit under this Act; or
(ii)	payment of an instalment of such a pension, allowance or benefit;
knowing that the payment is:
(iii)	not payable at all; or
(iv)	payable only in part; or
(c)	intentionally obtain payment of a pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit under this Act, or of an instalment of such a pension, allowance or benefit, by means of a false or misleading statement or of impersonation or a fraudulent device; or
(d)	intentionally obtain a benefit (not being a pension, allowance or pecuniary benefit) under this Act by means of a false or misleading statement or of impersonation or a fraudulent device; or
(e)	intentionally make or present to the Commission or an officer a statement or document that is false in a material particular.
(2)	A person shall not forge the signature of another person on a claim or application made under this Act for a pension, allowance or other benefit or for an increased pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit, or on any other document connected with, or in support of, such a claim or application, or connected with payment of a pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit under this Act or the provision of any other benefit under this Act.
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 6 months or 10 penalty units, or both.
(3)	A person shall not sign his or her name on a document intended to be presented to an officer for the purposes of this Act as his or her signature to the document unless the document has been completely filled in so as to be ready to be presented to an officer without further addition.
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 6 months or 10 penalty units, or both.
(4)	A person to whom assistance by way of a gift or loan of goods has been granted under this Act for any purpose shall not, without having first obtained the consent of the Commission:
(a)	use the goods for any other purpose; or
(b)	sell or otherwise dispose of, or pledge, mortgage or deposit by way of security any of those goods.
Penalty:	Imprisonment for 6 months or 10 penalty units, or both.
(4A)	An offence under subsection (3) or (4) is an offence of strict liability.
Note:	For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code.
(5)	An offence against subsection (1) is an indictable offence and, subject to subsection (6), is punishable, on conviction, by imprisonment for a period not exceeding 12 months or a fine not exceeding 20 penalty units, or both.
(6)	Notwithstanding that an offence against subsection (1) is an indictable offence, a court of summary jurisdiction may hear and determine proceedings in respect of such an offence if the court is satisfied that it is proper to do so and the defendant and the prosecutor consent.
(7)	Where, in accordance with subsection (6), a court of summary jurisdiction convicts a person of an offence against subsection (1), the penalty that the court may impose is imprisonment for a period not exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding 10 penalty units, or both.
209 Multiple offences
(1)	Charges against the same person for any number of offences against section 208 may be joined in one complaint or information if those charges are founded on the same facts, or form, or are part of, a series of offences of the same or a similar character.
(2)	Where 2 or more charges are included in the same complaint or information, particulars of each offence charged shall be set out in a separate paragraph.
(3)	All charges so joined shall be tried together unless the court deems it just that any charge should be tried separately and makes an order to that effect.
(4)	If a person is convicted of more than one offence against section 208, the court may, if it thinks fit, impose one penalty in respect of all the offences of which the person is convicted, but that penalty shall not exceed the sum of the maximum penalties that could be imposed if penalties were imposed for each offence separately.
210 Judicial notice to be taken of certain matters
Judicial notice of signature
(1)	All courts must take judicial notice of a signature that purports to be attached or appended to any official document if it is the signature of a person who:
(a)	holds or has held the office of Secretary; or
(b)	is or was an officer of the Department.
Judicial notice that person holds office
(2)	If the signature of a person referred to in subsection (1) purports to be attached or appended to any official document, all courts must take judicial notice of the fact that the person:
(a)	holds or has held the office of Secretary; or
(b)	is or was an officer of the Department.
210A Evidence
(1)	If the signature of any person who:
(a)	holds or has held the office of Secretary; or
(b)	is or was an officer of the Department;
purports to be attached or appended to any official document, the document must be received in all courts as prima facie evidence of the facts and statements contained in it.
(2)	A statement in writing, signed by a person referred to in subsection (1), that a person is or was receiving a pension, allowance or other benefit under this Act on a certain date or at a certain rate must be received in all courts as prima facie evidence that the person is or was receiving the pension, allowance or benefit on the date or at the rate stated.
(3)	If a written statement signed by a person referred to in subsection (1) is to the effect that, on a specified day, a specified person received a specified amount by way of pension bonus under this Act, the statement is prima facie evidence of the matters in the statement.
211 Order for repayment of pension etc.
(1)	Where:
(a)	a person is convicted of an offence against subsection 208(1) or (2); or
(b)	a person is charged before a court with an offence against subsection 208(1) or (2) but the Court, being satisfied that the charge has been proved, dismisses the charge or discharges the person without proceeding to a conviction;
the court may (in the case of a person convicted of the offence, in addition to imposing a penalty in respect of that offence) order the person to repay to the Commonwealth an amount equal to the amount paid by way of pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit under this Act in consequence of the act, failure or omission in respect of which the person was charged with the offence.
(2)	For the purposes of subsection (1), a certificate, under the hand of the Secretary, that an amount specified in the certificate is the amount that has been paid to a person by way of pension, allowance or other pecuniary benefit in consequence of an act, failure or omission specified in the certificate is prima facie evidence of the matters specified in the certificate.
(3)	Where:
(a)	the Court makes an order under subsection (1) for the payment to the Commonwealth of an amount of money; and
(b)	the clerk, or other appropriate officer, of the Court signs a certificate specifying:
(i)	the amount ordered to be paid to the Commonwealth; and
(ii)	the person by whom the amount is to be paid; and
(c)	the certificate is filed in a court (which may be the Court) having civil jurisdiction to the extent of the amount to be paid;
the certificate is enforceable in all respects as a final judgment of the court in which the certificate is filed.
(4)	In spite of anything in this Act or any other law, a person is not to be imprisoned in respect of a failure to pay an amount payable to the Commonwealth under this section.
(5)	Where:
(a)	a person is convicted of an offence against subsection 208(1) or (2); and
(b)	the court orders him or her to pay an amount of more than $30,000 to the Commonwealth under subsection (1); and
(c)	the offence involved a scheme to defraud the Commonwealth;
the court may, on application by the Commonwealth, order the person to pay to the Commonwealth interest on the amount mentioned in paragraph (b), at the rate of 20% per annum, in respect of the period or periods in respect of which the person was paid pension, allowance or other benefit as mentioned in subsection (1).
(6)	In this section:
scheme to defraud the Commonwealth includes either of the following:
(a)	a scheme involving the making of a series of false or misleading statements;
(b)	a scheme involving obtaining a series of payments of pension, allowance or other benefit or instalments of pension, allowance or other benefit under this Act (being payments that were not payable) by means of impersonation or a fraudulent device.
212 Delegation by Minister
The Minister may, by writing, delegate all or any of the Minister’s powers under this Act to:
(a)	a Commissioner; or
(b)	an APS employee.
Note:	Sections 34AA to 34A of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 contain provisions relating to delegations.
214 Delegation by Secretary
(1)	The Secretary may, either generally or as otherwise provided by the instrument of delegation, by writing signed by the Secretary, delegate to a person referred to in subsection (4), all or any of the Secretary’s powers under this Act or under the regulations or under any other legislative instrument made under this Act, other than this power of delegation and the power under subsection 4B(1).
(2)	A power delegated under this section, when exercised by a delegate, shall, for the purposes of this Act or the regulations or the other legislative instrument made under this Act, be deemed to have been exercised by the Secretary.
(3)	A delegation under this section does not prevent the exercise of a power by the Secretary.
(4)	The persons to whom a power may be delegated under subsection (1) are any of the following:
(a)	an APS employee;
(b)	a public authority established by a law of the Commonwealth;
(c)	an officer or employee of a public authority referred to in paragraph (b);
(d)	a person who performs services on behalf of the Department under a contract made between the person and the Commonwealth;
(e)	an employee of a person referred to in paragraph (d).
214A Telephone access to offices at cheap rate
The Minister shall direct the Secretary to make provision for the development of a service which will enable a person to make a telephone call to an office that is under the general control of the Secretary, at no greater cost than the cost of a local telephone call.
216 Regulations
(1)	The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act, prescribing all matters which are by this Act required or permitted to be prescribed, or which are necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Act, and, in particular, for prescribing penalties not exceeding a fine of 5 penalty units for a contravention of the regulations.
(2)	The regulations may modify the operation of section 18 of the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024 (when to apply—general rule) as it applies in relation to a decision made under the regulations.
	Schedule 1 — Repealed Acts
Section 3
Part I—Repatriation Acts
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act 1920
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act 1921
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act 1922
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act 1929
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act 1930
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act 1934
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act 1935
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act 1936
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act 1937
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act (No. 2) 1937
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act (No. 3) 1937
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act 1938
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act 1940
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act (No. 2) 1940
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act 1941
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act 1943
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act 1946
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act 1947
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act (No. 2) 1947
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act 1948
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act 1949
Australian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act 1950
Repatriation Act 1951
Repatriation Act 1952
Repatriation Act 1953
Repatriation Act 1954
Repatriation Act 1955
Repatriation Act 1956
Repatriation Act (No. 2) 1956
Repatriation Act 1957
Repatriation Act 1958
Repatriation Act 1959
Repatriation Act 1960
Repatriation Act 1961
Repatriation Act 1962
Repatriation Act (No. 2) 1962
Repatriation Act 1963
Repatriation Act 1964
Repatriation Act (No. 2) 1964
Repatriation Act 1965
Repatriation Act 1966
Repatriation Act 1967
Repatriation Act 1968
Repatriation Act 1969
Repatriation Act 1970
Repatriation Act (No. 2) 1970
Repatriation Act 1971
Repatriation Act (No. 2) 1971
Repatriation Act 1972
Repatriation Act (No. 2) 1972
Repatriation Act 1973
Repatriation Act (No. 2) 1973
Repatriation Act (No. 3) 1973
Repatriation Act 1974
Repatriation Act (No. 2) 1974
Repatriation (Pharmaceutical Benefits) Amendment Act 1981
Repatriation Amendment Act 1982
Part II—Repatriation (Far East Strategic Reserve) Acts
Repatriation (Far East Strategic Reserve) Act 1956
Repatriation (Far East Strategic Reserve) Act 1962
Repatriation (Far East Strategic Reserve) Act 1964
Repatriation (Far East Strategic Reserve) Act 1972
Repatriation (Far East Strategic Reserve) Act 1973
Part III—Interim Forces Benefits Acts
Interim Forces Benefits Act 1947
Interim Forces Benefits Act 1950
Interim Forces Benefits Act 1964
Interim Forces Benefits Act 1973
Part IV—Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Acts
Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act 1962
Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act 1964
Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act 1965
Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act 1968
Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act 1972
Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act 1973
Part V—Repatriation (Torres Strait Islanders) Act
Repatriation (Torres Strait Islanders) Act 1972
Part VI—Amendments of certain Acts
Column 1
Act
Column 2
Provision
Column 3
Amendment
Repatriation Acts Amendment Act 1974
Parts II, III, IV, V and VII
Repeal the Parts
Repatriation Acts Amendment Act 1975
Part II
Repeal the Part
Repatriation Acts Amendment Act (No. 2) 1975
Part II
Repeal the Part
Repatriation Acts Amendment Act 1976
Part II
Repeal the Part
Repatriation Acts Amendment Act (No. 2) 1976
Part II
Repeal the Part
Repatriation Acts Amendment Act 1977
Part II
Repeal the Part
Repatriation Acts Amendment Act 1978
Parts II, III, IV and V Schedules 1 and 2
Repeal the Parts Repeal the Schedules
Repatriation Acts Amendment Act 1979
Parts II, III, IV, V and VII Schedule
Repeal the Parts Repeal the Schedule
Repatriation Acts Amendment Act (No. 2) 1979
Part II
Repeal the Part
Repatriation Acts Amendment Act 1980
Part II
Repeal the Part
Repatriation Acts Amendment Act 1981
Parts II, IV, VI, VII, VIII and IX Schedules 1, 3, 5, 6 and 7
Repeal the Parts Repeal the Schedules
Repatriation Legislation Amendment Act 1982
Part II Parts IV, V, VI and VII
Repeal the Part Repeal the Parts
Repatriation Legislation Amendment Act 1983
Part II Part IV
Repeal the Part Repeal the Part
Repatriation Legislation Amendment Act 1984
Parts II, III, IV and V Schedules 1, 2 and 3
Repeal the Parts Repeal the Schedules
Repatriation Legislation Amendment Act 1985
Parts II, IV, V and VI Schedule
Repeal the Parts Repeal the Schedule
Social Security and Repatriation Legislation Amendment Act 1983
Part III
Repeal the Part
Social Security and Repatriation Legislation Amendment Act 1984
Part IV
Repeal the Part
Social Security and Repatriation (Budget Measures and Assets Test) Act 1984
Division 2 of Part II Division 2 of Part III
Repeal the Division Repeal the Division
Social Security and Repatriation Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 1984
Part V
Repeal the Part
Social Security and Repatriation Legislation Amendment Act 1985
Parts XII, XIII, XIV, XV and XVI Schedule 3
Repeal the Parts Repeal the Schedule
	Schedule 2 — Operational areas
Section 5B
Column 1
Description of operational areas
Column 2
Period
1.	The area of Korea, including the waters contiguous to the coast of Korea for a distance of 185 kilometres seaward from the coast.
The period from and including 27 June 1950 to and including 19 April 1956
2.	The area of Malaya, including the waters contiguous to the coast of Malaya for a distance of 18.5 kilometres seaward from the coast.
The period from and including 29 June 1950 to and including 31 August 1957
3.	The area comprising the territories of the countries then known as the Federation of Malaya and the Colony of Singapore, respectively.
The period from and including 1 September 1957 to and including 31 July 1960
3A.	Ubon in Thailand.
The period from and including 31 May 1962 to and including 27 July 1962
3B.	North East Thailand (including Ubon).
The period from and including 25 June 1965 to and including 31 August 1968
4.	Vietnam (Southern Zone).
The period from and including 31 July 1962 to and including 11 January 1973
5.	All that part of the Federation of Malaya contained within the area bounded by a line commencing at the intersection of the western shore of the Federation of Malaya at high-water mark and the boundary between the States of Perlis and Kedah; thence proceeding generally north-easterly along that boundary to its intersection with the railway line from Arau to Penang Tunggal; thence following that railway line generally southerly to its intersection with the northern boundary between the States of Penang and Kedah; thence proceeding along the boundary between those States generally easterly, southerly and westerly to the intersection of the boundaries of the States of Penang, Kedah and Perak; thence following the boundary between the States of Penang and Perak to its intersection with the railway line from Penang Tunggal to Taiping; thence following that railway line generally southerly, easterly and southerly to its intersection with the parallel 4 degrees 51 minutes north latitude; thence proceeding due south in a straight line to the intersection of that line with the parallel 4 degrees 30 minutes north latitude; thence proceeding along that parallel to its intersection with the eastern bank of the Perak River; thence following that bank of that river to its intersection with the parallel 4 degrees 47 minutes north latitude; thence proceeding in a straight line to the intersection of the boundaries of the States of Perak, Kelantan and Pahang; thence proceeding along the boundary between the States of Kelantan and Pahang to its intersection with the meridian 101 degrees 48 minutes east longitude; thence proceeding in a straight line to the intersection of the eastern bank of the Raya River with the eastern bank of the Nenggiri River; thence following that bank of that river to its intersection with the western bank of the Galas River; thence proceeding in a straight line due east to the eastern bank of that river; thence following that bank of that river and the eastern bank of the Kelantan River to its intersection with the eastern shore of the Federation of Malaya at high-water mark; thence following that shore at high-water mark to its intersection with the boundary between the Federation of Malaya and Thailand; thence proceeding along that boundary to the western shore of the Federation of Malaya and Thailand at high-water mark; thence following that shore of the Federation of Malaya at high-water mark to the point of commencement.
The period from and including 1 August 1960 to and including 16 August 1964
6.	All that area of land and waters (other than islands and waters forming part of the territory of the Republic of the Philippines) bounded by a line commencing at the intersection of the northern shore of Borneo at high-water mark with the boundary between Kalimantan and Sarawak; thence proceeding generally south-easterly, easterly and northerly along that boundary to its junction with the boundary between Kalimantan and Sabah; thence proceeding generally easterly along that boundary to its intersection with the eastern shore of Borneo at high-water mark; thence proceeding in a straight line easterly to the intersection of the western shore of the island of Sebatik at high-water mark with the boundary between that part of that island that forms part of Sabah and that part of that island that forms part of Kalimantan; thence proceeding generally easterly along that boundary to its intersection with the eastern shore of the island of Sebatik at high-water mark; thence proceeding in a straight line easterly to a point 80.5 kilometres east (true) of the intersection of the eastern shore of Borneo at high-water mark with the boundary between Kalimantan and Sabah; thence proceeding generally northerly and south-westerly parallel to and at a distance of 80.5 kilometres from the eastern and northern shores, respectively, of Borneo at high-water mark to a point 80.5 kilometres north (true) of the point of commencement; thence proceeding in a straight line southerly to the point of commencement.
The period from and including 8 December 1962 to and including 16 August 1964
7.	The territories of Malaysia, Brunei and Singapore and the waters adjacent to those countries.
The period from and including 17 August 1964 to and including 14 September 1966
8.	All that area of land and waters (other than land or waters forming part of the territory of Cambodia or China) bounded by a line commencing at the intersection of the boundary between Cambodia and Vietnam (Southern Zone) with the shore of Vietnam (Southern Zone) at high-water mark; thence proceeding in a straight line to a point 185.2 kilometres west (true) of that intersection; thence proceeding along an imaginary line parallel to, and at a distance of 185.2 kilometres from, the shore of Vietnam at high-water mark to its intersection with the parallel 21 degrees 30 minutes north latitude; thence proceeding along that parallel westerly to its intersection with the shore of Vietnam at high-water mark; thence following the shore of Vietnam at high-water mark to the point of commencement.
The period from and including 31 July 1962 to and including 11 January 1973
9.	The area comprising the United Nations Mandated Territory of Namibia and the area of land extending 400 kilometres outwards from the borders of Namibia into the adjoining countries of Angola, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Botswana and South Africa (including Walvis Bay).
The period from and including 18 February 1989 to and including 10 April 1990
10.	The area comprising the following countries and sea areas:
(i) Bahrain, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and the Island of Cyprus;
(ii) the sea areas contained within the Gulf of Suez, the Gulf of Aqaba, the Red Sea, the Gulf of Aden, the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman;
The period from and including 2 August 1990 to and including 9 June 1991
(iii) the sea area contained within the Arabian Sea north of the boundary formed by joining each of the following points to the next:
(A)	20°30´N 070°40´E;
(B)	14°30´N 067°35´E;
(C)	08°30´N 060°00´E;
(D)	06°20´N 053°52´E;
(E)	05°48´N 049°02´E;
(iv) the sea area contained within the Suez Canal and the Mediterranean Sea east of 030°E.
11.	The area comprising Iraq and Kuwait
The period from and including 23 February 1991 to and including 9 June 1991
12.	The area comprising Cambodia and the areas in Laos and Thailand that are not more than 50 kilometres from the border with Cambodia
The period from and including 20 October 1991 to and including 7 October 1993
13.	The area comprising the former Yugoslavia
The period from and including 12 January 1992 to and including 24 January 1997
14.	The area comprising Somalia
The period from and including 20 October 1992 to and including 30 November 1994
15.	The area of the Red Sea north of the parallel 20 degrees north latitude.
The period from and including 13 January 1993 to and including 19 January 1993
	Schedule 2A — Classes of permanent visas
Paragraph 5C(4)(c)
Item No.
Class description
Relevant item in Schedule 1 to Migration Regulations
1.
Burmese in Burma (Special Assistance) (Class AB)
1102
2.
Burmese in Thailand (Special Assistance) (Class AC)
1103
3.
Cambodian (Special Assistance) (Class AE)
1105
4.
Camp Clearance (Migrant) (Class AF)
1106
5.
Citizens of the Former Yugoslavia (Special Assistance) (Class AI)
1109
6.
East Timorese In Portugal, Macau and Mozambique (Special Assistance) (Class AM)
1113
7.
Minorities of Former USSR (Special Assistance) (Class AV)
1122
8.
Refugee and Humanitarian (Migrant) (Class BA)
1127
8A.
Sri Lankan (Special Assistance) (Class BF)
1129A
9.
Sudanese (Special Assistance) (Class BD)
1130
10.
Territorial Asylum (Residence) (Class BE)
1131
	Schedule 3 — Peacekeeping forces
Note:	See subsections 68(1) and (3).
Peacekeeping Forces
Item
Description of Peacekeeping Force
Initial date as a Peacekeeping Force
1
Security Council Commission of Investigation on the Balkans
29 January 1947
2
Committee of Good Offices
25 August 1947
3
United Nations Special Commission on the Balkans
26 November 1947
4
United Nations Commission on Korea
1 January 1949
5
United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan
1 January 1949
6
United Nations Commission for Indonesia
28 January 1949
7
United Nations Truce Supervision Organisation
1 June 1956
8
United Nations Operations in the Congo
1 August 1960
9
United Nations Yemen Observation Mission
1 January 1963
10
United Nations Force in Cyprus
14 May 1964
11
United Nations India-Pakistan Observation Mission
20 September 1965
12
United Nations Disengagement Observer Force
1 January 1974
13
United Nations Emergency Force Two
1 July 1976
14
United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon
23 March 1978
15
Commonwealth Monitoring Force in Zimbabwe
24 December 1979
16
Sinai Multinational Force and Observers established by the Protocol between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the State of Israel dated 3 August 1981
18 February 1982
17
United Nations Iran/Iraq Military Observer Group
11 August 1988
18
United Nations Border Relief Operation in Cambodia
1 February 1989
19
United Nations Transition Assistance Group Namibia
18 February 1989
20
United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (Mission des Nations Unies pour un Referendum au Sahara Occidental)
27 June 1991
21
The Australian Police Contingent of the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia
18 May 1992
22
The Australian Police Contingent of the United Nations Operation in Mozambique
27 March 1994
23
Australian Defence Support to a Pacific Peacekeeping Force for a Bougainville Peace Conference
21 September 1994
24
The Australian Police Contingent of the Multi-National Force in Haiti
10 October 1994
	Schedule 5 — Savings and transitional provisions
Section 197A
	Part 1 — General
1 Service pensions—changes introduced on 1 October 1995
(1)	Despite Schedule 6, if:
(a)	a person was receiving a service pension immediately before 1 October 1995; and
(b)	the person was a member of a couple immediately before 1 October 1995; and
(c)	the person’s partner was not, immediately before 1 October 1995, receiving a social security pension, a service pension or an income support supplement; and
(d)	the amount that was the person’s maximum basic rate in respect of the service pension for the last payment period before 1 October 1995 exceeds the amount of the person’s maximum basic rate on 1 October 1995; and
(e)	the amount of that excess exceeds, in relation to a particular period, the sum of:
(i)	the increased amounts (if any) for the original components of the rate of service pension payable to the person in respect of the payment period; and
(ii)	the new components (if any) of the rate of service pension payable to the person in respect of the payment period; and
(iii)	the increased amounts (if any) for those new components; and
(f)	this clause has not ceased to apply to the person because of subclause (2);
in calculating the amount of service pension payable to the person in respect of the payment period, an amount equal to the difference between:
(g)	the amount of the excess referred to in paragraph (d); and
(h)	the sum referred to in paragraph (e);
is to be added to the person’s maximum basic rate.
(2)	This clause ceases to apply if:
(a)	the person ceases to receive that service pension; or
(b)	the person ceases to be a member of that couple; or
(c)	the person’s partner receives a social security pension, a service pension or an income support supplement.
(3)	In this clause:
increased amount, in relation to an original component or a new component, means the amount (if any) by which the amount of the component exceeds the lowest amount of the component payable in any payment period ending after 1 October 1995.
new component means:
(a)	any additional amount that, in calculating a person’s rate of service pension, is added to the person’s maximum basic rate, being an additional amount that would not have been so added in respect of the last payment period before 1 October 1995; or
(b)	any amount by which a person’s rate of service pension has increased as a result of a change in the person’s circumstances on or after 1 October 1995.
original component means:
(a)	a person’s maximum basic rate that was used in calculating the person’s rate of service pension for the last payment period before 1 October 1995; or
(b)	an additional amount that was added to the person’s maximum basic rate in calculating the person’s rate of service pension for that payment period.
payment period means the period in respect of which a payment of service pension is payable.
4 Rent assistance—retirement village residents (changes introduced on 12 June 1989)
(1)	If:
(a)	immediately before 3 November 1988:
(i)	a person was receiving a service pension; and
(ii)	the person’s pension rate included an amount by way of rent assistance under or because of this Act as in force at that time; and
(b)	at all times since 3 November 1988:
(i)	the person has been entitled to a pension under this Act or a social security payment under the Social Security Act; and
(ii)	the person’s principal home has been in a retirement village; and
(c)	immediately before the commencement of this clause, subsection 31(1) of the Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1988 applied to the person;
the person is taken not to be an ineligible property owner or an excluded property owner for the purposes of this Act.
(2)	If:
(a)	immediately after 12 June 1989:
(i)	a person was receiving a social security payment under the Social Security Act; and
(ii)	the person’s pension, benefit or allowance rate included an amount by way of rent assistance because of the operation of subsection 19(1) of the Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1988; and
(b)	after 12 June 1989, the person began or begins to receive a pension; and
(c)	subsection 19(1) of the Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1988 applied to the person at all times between 12 June 1989 and the person’s beginning to receive the pension; and
(d)	at all times since the person began to receive the pension:
(i)	the person has continued to receive a pension; and
(ii)	the person’s principal home has continued to be in the retirement village; and
(e)	either of the following subparagraphs applies to the person:
(i)	if the person began to receive the pension before the commencement of this clause, subsection 31(2) of the Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1988 applied to the person immediately before that commencement;
(ii)	if the person begins to receive the pension after that commencement—that subsection would have applied to the person immediately before he or she began to receive the pension if it had not been repealed;
the person is taken not to be an ineligible property owner or an excluded property owner for the purposes of this Act.
(3)	Despite subclause (1) or (2), the rate of rent assistance or residential care allowance payable to a person to whom that subclause applies (whether that rate is required to be worked out under this Act (other than this Schedule) or is required to be worked out under subclause (4) of clause 4) is reduced by the sum of any indexation or adjustment increases occurring after the commencement of this clause to the person’s pension rate.
(4)	If, because of subclause (3), the rate of rent assistance or residential care allowance payable to a person to whom subclause (1) or (2) applies is reduced to nil, subclause (1) or (2), as the case may be, ceases to apply to the person.
(5)	If subclause (1) or (2) ceases to apply to a person, that subclause does not apply to the person again.
(6)	In this clause:
indexation or adjustment increase means an increase resulting from the operation of Division 18 of Part IIIB.
5 Rent assistance (changes introduced on 20 March 1993)
(1)	This clause applies to a person if:
(a)	immediately before 20 March 1993:
(i)	the person was receiving a service pension; and
(ii)	the person’s pension included an amount by way of rent assistance; and
(b)	immediately before the commencement of this clause, section 111 of the Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 1992 applied to the person; and
(c)	this subclause continues to apply to the person.
(2)	If:
(a)	a decision was made on or after 20 March 1993 under this Act that a person was entitled to rent assistance in respect of a period; and
(b)	the period started before 20 March 1993; and
(c)	the period continued until at least 19 March 1993;
the person is taken, for the purposes of this clause, to have been receiving rent assistance under this Act immediately before 20 March 1993.
(3)	This clause applies to a person if:
(a)	immediately before 20 March 1993, the person was receiving rent assistance under the Social Security Act; and
(b)	on or after that date, the person became or becomes entitled to be paid a pension; and
(c)	either of the following subparagraphs applies to the person:
(i)	if the person became entitled to be paid the pension before the commencement of this clause—section 111 of the Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 1992 applied to the person immediately before that commencement;
(ii)	if the person becomes entitled to be paid the pension after that commencement—that section would have applied to the person immediately before he or she became so entitled if it had not been repealed; and
(d)	this subclause continues to apply to the person.
(4)	Subject to subclauses (7), (8), (9), (10) and (11), if subclause (1) or (3) applies to a person, the amount by way of rent assistance to be used to calculate the person’s pension rate is the amount (the floor amount) by way of rent assistance that would be included in the person’s pension rate if:
(a)	the person’s pension rate were neither income reduced nor assets reduced; and
(b)	the amount of rent assistance were calculated under this Act as in force immediately before 20 March 1993.
(5)	Subclause (1) or (3) ceases to apply to a person if:
(a)	the person no longer receives a service pension, an income support supplement, or a social security pension under the Social Security Act; or
(b)	the person ceases to be eligible for rent assistance; or
(c)	the pension rate that is applicable to the person because of that subclause is equal to or less than the rate that would be the person’s pension rate if that subclause did not apply to the person; or
(d)	the Commission considers that there is a significant change in the person’s circumstances that would affect the amount of rent assistance that is payable to the person apart from this clause.
(6)	If:
(a)	subclause (1) or (3) ceases to apply to a person because of subclause (5); and
(b)	within 42 days, or any longer period that the Commission determines, after the day on which that subclause ceases to apply to the person, there is a change in the person’s circumstances; and
(c)	the Commission considers that the change in the person’s circumstances is so significant that subclause (1) or (3) should apply to the person;
the Commission may determine in writing that subclause (1) or (3) is to apply to the person from a stated date.
(7)	Subject to subclauses (11) and (13), if:
(a)	subclause (1) or (3) applies to a person; and
(b)	the person has become or becomes a member of a couple; and
(c)	the person’s partner is receiving a pension, or a social security payment under the Social Security Act, but:
(i)	is not a person to whom subclause (1) or (3) applies; and
(ii)	is not a person to whom clause 63 of Schedule 1A to the Social Security Act applies;
the amount by way of rent assistance to be used to calculate the person’s pension rate or the person’s partner’s pension rate is not to fall below one-half of the person’s floor amount.
(8)	Subject to subclause (11), if:
(a)	subclause (1) or (3) applies to a person; and
(b)	the person has become or becomes a member of a couple; and
(c)	the person’s partner is a person to whom subclause (1) or (3) applies;
the amount by way of rent assistance to be used to calculate the person’s pension rate or the person’s partner’s pension rate is not to fall below one-half of the person’s floor amount or one-half of the person’s partner’s floor amount, whichever is the greater.
(9)	Subject to subclause (11), if:
(a)	subclause (1) or (3) applies to a person; and
(b)	the person has become or becomes a member of a couple; and
(c)	the person’s partner is a person to whom clause 63 of Schedule 1A to the Social Security Act applies;
the amount by way of rent assistance to be used to calculate the person’s pension rate is not to fall below one-half of the person’s floor amount or one-half of the amount that would be the person’s partner’s floor amount if subsection (1) or (3) applied to the partner, whichever is the greater.
(10)	Subject to subclause (11), if:
(a)	a person is receiving a pension; and
(b)	neither subclause (1) nor (3) applies to the person; and
(c)	the person has become or becomes a member of a couple; and
(d)	the person’s partner is receiving a social security payment under the Social Security Act and is a person to whom clause 63 of Schedule 1A to the Social Security Act applies;
the amount by way of rent assistance to be used to calculate the person’s pension rate is not to fall below one-half of the amount that would be the person’s partner’s floor amount if subclause (1) or (3) applied to the partner.
(11)	Despite anything in the preceding provisions of this clause, the rate of rent assistance payable to a person to whom this clause applies is reduced by the sum of any indexation or adjustment increases occurring after the commencement of this clause to the person’s pension rate.
(12)	Subject to subclause (6), if subclause (1) or (3) ceases to apply to a person because of subclause (5), it does not again apply to the person.
(13)	Subclause (7) ceases to apply to the partner of a person to whom subclause (1) or (3) applies if the pension rate that is applicable to the partner because of subclause (7) is equal to or less than the rate that would be the partner’s pension rate if subclause (7) did not apply to the partner.
(14)	If subclause (7) ceases to apply to the partner of a person to whom subclause (1) or (3) applies, subclause (7) does not again apply to the partner.
(16)	In this clause:
floor amount has the meaning given by subsection (4).
indexation or adjustment increase means an increase resulting from the operation of Division 18 of Part IIIB.
6 Saving: Determinations under repealed sections 46Z and 46ZF
A determination in force under section 46Z or 46ZF immediately before the commencement of this section continues to have effect after that commencement as if:
(a)	section 46L of this Act, as in force immediately after the commencement of this section, had been in force when the determination was made; and
(b)	the determination had been made under that section as so in force; and
(c)	any reference in the determination to section 46W, 46ZD or 46ZE were a reference to sections 46D to 46E of this Act.
7 Transitional and saving provisions applicable to the amendments relating to the pension loans scheme
(1)	If:
(a)	a person has made a request to participate in the previous pension loans scheme; and
(b)	Schedule 17 to the Amending Act commences before the first pension payday after the lodging of the request;
for the purposes of this clause, the person is to be treated as a person who is participating in the previous pension loans scheme.
(2)	Subject to subclause (3), in relation to a person who is participating in the previous pension loans scheme, subsections 5L(1) and 52(1) and Subdivision E of Division 11 of Part IIIB of this Act, as in force immediately before the commencement of Schedule 17 to the Amending Act, continue to have effect as if the Amending Act had not been enacted.
(3)	If a person who is participating in the previous pension loans scheme:
(a)	is eligible to participate in the current pension loans scheme; and
(b)	makes a request to participate in the current scheme;
and the Commission is satisfied that the amount of any debt that would become payable by the person to the Commonwealth under the current scheme would be readily recoverable, the current scheme applies to the person on and after the day on which the request is lodged.
(4)	The debt owed by a person who was participating in the previous pension loans scheme and who is participating in the current pension loans scheme by operation of subclause (3) is, for the purposes of working out the debt owed by the person under the current scheme, to be added to the basic amount of debt accrued under the current scheme.
(5)	In this clause:
Amending Act means the Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1995.
current pension loans scheme means the pension loans scheme in operation under the provisions of this Act, as amended by the Amending Act.
participating in the pension loans scheme has the same meaning as in subsection 52ZAAA(3).
previous pension loans scheme means the pension loans scheme in operation under the provisions of this Act, as in force immediately before the commencement of Schedule 17 to the Amending Act.
8 Transitional and saving provisions: amendments relating to the transfer of carers
(1)	If:
(a)	a person was receiving a carer service pension immediately before the transfer day; and
(b)	neither subclause (2) nor (4) applies to the person;
an instalment of carer service pension is payable to the person on the transfer day at the rate worked out using the following formula:
where:
reduced annual rate means the rate payable in accordance with this Act on the last pension payday before the transfer day, excluding any pharmaceutical allowance payable to a person under this Act.
pharmaceutical allowance means the amount of pharmaceutical allowance that would have been included in the person’s carer service pension if the payment was an instalment under section 58A.
(2)	Subject to subclause (5), if:
(a)	a person (the carer) was receiving a carer service pension immediately before the transfer day; and
(b)	the veteran partner who is being cared for by the carer is receiving an age service pension or an invalidity service pension; and
(c)	the carer would, apart from subsection 38(1B), be eligible for a partner service pension;
this Act continues to apply to the person in relation to carer service pension as if the amendments made by Division 1 of Part 5 of Schedule 1 to the amending Act had not been made.
(3)	Subject to subclause (5), if:
(a)	a person was receiving income support supplement immediately before the transfer day; and
(b)	subsection 45AB(1) applied to the person; and
(c)	the person would, apart from paragraph 45A(1)(b) and section 45AB, be eligible for income support supplement;
this Act continues to apply to the person in relation to income support supplement as if the amendments made by Division 1 of Part 5 of Schedule 1 to the amending Act had not been made.
(4)	Subject to subclause (5), if:
(a)	a person (the carer) is receiving a carer service pension immediately before the transfer day; and
(b)	the veteran who is being cared for by the carer is not receiving an age service pension or an invalidity service pension but passes the income test under section 53AA and either passes the assets test under section 53AD or is the subject of a decision in force under section 53AN that the assets test does not apply to the veteran;
this Act continues to apply to the person in relation to carer service pension as if the amendments made by Division 1 of Part 5 of Schedule 1 to the amending Act had not been made.
(5)	If carer service pension or income support supplement ceases to be payable to the person after the transfer day, then subclause (2), (3) or (4), as the case requires, ceases to apply to the person.
(6)	References in this clause to other provisions of this Act are references to those provisions as they would be if the amendments made by Division 1 of Part 5 of Schedule 1 to the amending Act had not been made.
(7)	In this clause:
amending Act means the Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget and Compensation Measures) Act 1997.
transfer day means the day on which Part 5 of Schedule 1 to the amending Act commences.
9 Transitional provisions applicable to the amendments relating to amounts in respect of children
(1)	If:
(a)	a determination is made on or after 1 January 1998 that a claim for a service pension or income support supplement is to be granted; and
(b)	because of section 36M or 45R, the determination takes effect before that date; and
(c)	had the amendments made by Schedule 1 to the Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget and Simplification Measures) Act 1997 not been made, an instalment of the pension or supplement that was payable on a pension pay-day that occurred before that date would have included a child-related amount;
the instalment is to include that amount.
(2)	If the amount of an instalment of a service pension or income support supplement that was payable on a pension pay-day before 1 January 1998 would, had the amendments made by Schedule 1 to the Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget and Simplification Measures) Act 1997 not been made, be taken to have been increased so as to include a child-related amount, the instalment is taken to have been so increased.
(3)	In this clause:
child-related amount, at any relevant time, means an amount that was required at that time to be included in a service pension under Module C or Module D (as Module C or Module D was affected by Module DAA) of the Service Pension Rate Calculator at the end of section 42, or in an income support supplement under Module F or Module G (as Module F or Module G was affected by Module H) of the Income Support Supplement Rate Calculator at the end of section 45Y, of the Veterans’ Entitlements Act 1986 as in force at that time.
10 Saving provisions applicable to the amendments relating to amounts in respect of children
(1)	This clause applies to a person if:
(a)	immediately before 1 January 1998 a service pension or income support supplement was payable to the person at a rate that included one or more pension/supplement child-related amounts in respect of a child or children; and
(b)	the Commission determines on or before 31 March 1998, or after that date as a result of an application made by the person to the Commission on or before that date, that, on 1 January 1998, the person’s notional pension/supplement child-related amount was or will be greater than the notional family allowance child-related amount in relation to the person or the person’s partner.
(2)	The rate of service pension or income support supplement payable to the person from time to time includes the person’s notional pension/supplement child-related amount at that time until, in accordance with subclause (2A), it is no longer to be so included.
(2A)	For the purposes of subclause (2), the rate of service pension or income support supplement payable to the person is no longer to include the person’s notional pension/supplement child-related amount:
(a)	in respect of any payment made at any time before 1 July 2000—if the person’s notional pension/supplement child-related amount ceases to be greater than the notional family allowance child-related amount in relation to the person or the person’s partner at that time; and
(b)	in respect of any payment made at any time on or after 1 July 2000—if the person has elected, by written notice given to the Secretary, no longer to be covered by this clause.
(2B)	For the purposes of Part IIIC, the rate of invalidity service pension, partner service pension, or income support supplement, that is payable to a person who has not reached pension age does not include the notional pension/supplement child-related amount.
(3)	If:
(a)	at any time before 1 July 2000, the person’s notional pension/supplement child-related amount ceases to be greater than the notional family allowance child-related amount in relation to the person or person’s partner; and
(b)	because of this fact, the rate of service pension or income support supplement payable to a person is no longer to include the first-mentioned amount;
the rate of that pension or supplement is never thereafter to include the person’s notional pension/supplement child-related amount even though that amount may again become greater than the notional family allowance child-related amount in relation to the person or the person’s partner.
(3A)	Subclause (2) ceases to apply to the rate of service pension or income support supplement payable to a person:
(a)	from the start of the day the Social Security Legislation Amendment (Youth Allowance) Act 1998 commences, if the child or youngest child because of whom this clause applies to the person is 16 or over then; or
(b)	from the start of the 16th birthday of the child or youngest child because of whom this clause applies to the person, if that child is under 16 on the day that Act commences.
(3B)	In working out the amount of:
(a)	a person’s notional pension/supplement child-related amount; and
(b)	the notional family allowance child-related amount for a person or his or her partner;
at a time at or after the commencement of the Social Security Legislation Amendment (Youth Allowance) Act 1998, disregard a child who is 16 or over at the time.
(4)	In this clause:
notional family allowance child-related amount, in relation to a person or a person’s partner at any time before 1 July 2000, means the amount by which the rate of family allowance that would be payable to the person or the person’s partner at that time under the Social Security Act except for point 1069-B8 of that Act, would be more than the minimum family allowance rate.
notional pension/supplement child-related amount, in relation to a person at any time, means:
(a)	if the time is a time occurring before 1 July 2000—the total of the pension supplement child-related amounts that would have been included at that time in the rate of the service pension or income support supplement payable to the person in respect of any child or children referred to in paragraph (1)(a) if the amendments made by Schedule 1 to the Veterans Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget and Simplification Measures) Act 1997 had not been made; and
(b)	if the time is a time occurring on or after 1 July 2000—an amount that has been determined by the Commission, by instrument in writing, to be the amount of the pension/supplement child-related amount at that time, having regard to the indexation of the Part A rate of family tax benefit to that time under the A New Tax System (Family Assistance) Act 1999.
pension/supplement child-related amount, at any relevant time, means an amount that was or would be required at that time to be included in a service pension under Module C or Module D (as Module C or Module D was affected by Module DAA) of the Service Pension Rate Calculator at the end of section 42, or in an income support supplement under Module F or Module G (as Module F or Module G was affected by Module H) of the Income Support Supplement Rate Calculator at the end of section 45Y, of the Veterans’ Entitlements Act 1986 as in force immediately before 1 January 1998.
11 Saving provisions applicable to certain people who cease to be service pensioners on 1 January 1998
(1)	Subject to subclause (2), this clause applies to a person at a particular time (the relevant time) if:
(a)	a service pension is not payable to the person; and
(b)	a service pension was payable to the person immediately before 1 January 1998 at a rate that included one or more pension child-related amounts in respect of a child or children; and
(c)	a service pension would have been payable to the person at the relevant time at a rate that included one or more pension child-related amounts in respect of that child or those children if the amendments made by Schedule 1 to the Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget and Simplification Measures) Act 1997 had not been made.
(2)	This clause ceases to apply to a person, and does not afterwards again apply to the person, if:
(a)	the service pension referred to in paragraph (1)(c) would have ceased to be payable to the person; or
(b)	family payment under the Social Security Act is no longer payable to the person or the person’s partner or is no longer payable to the person or the person’s partner at a rate higher than the minimum family payment rate; or
(c)	service pension becomes payable to the person.
(3)	A person to whom this clause applies is taken for the purposes of subsection 85(7) to be in receipt of a service pension under Part III.
(4)	In this clause:
pension child-related amount, at any relevant time, means an amount that would be required at that time to be included in a service pension under Module C or Module D (as Module C or Module D was affected by Module DAA) of the Service Pension Rate Calculator at the end of section 42 of the Veterans’ Entitlements Act 1986 as in force immediately before 1 January 1998.
11A Amendments relating to treatment of income streams
(1)	If:
(a)	a person who had entered into a binding arrangement for the provision to the person of an income stream was, on 19 September 1998, receiving a service pension, an income support supplement or a social security payment; and
(b)	the Minister declares, in writing, that the Minister is satisfied that the application of this Act (as amended by the amending Act) would cause the person significant disadvantage in relation to the treatment of the person’s income stream;
this Act applies to the person in relation to the income stream as if the amendments made by Part 2 of Schedule 3 to the amending Act had not been made.
(2)	Subclause (1) ceases to have effect if:
(a)	the service pension, income support supplement or social security payment referred to in subclause (1)(a) (the original payment) ceases to be payable to the person; and
(b)	another service pension, income support supplement or social security payment does not become payable to the person immediately after the original payment ceases to be payable.
(3)	If a person was receiving a service pension, an income support supplement or a social security payment on 19 September 1998, the person’s annual rate of ordinary income from:
(a)	an asset-test exempt income stream; or
(b)	an asset-tested income stream (long term);
that is a defined benefit income stream whose commencement day is earlier than 20 September 1998 is to be worked out as if the amendment made by item 81 of Schedule 3 to the amending Act had not been made.
(4)	In this clause:
amending Act means the Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget and Other Measures) Act 1998.
binding arrangement, in relation to a person, means:
(a)	an arrangement that does not allow the person to commute an income stream; or
(b)	an arrangement that may only be terminated on terms that are, in the opinion of the Commission, likely to cause severe detriment to the person.
11B Transitional definition of deductible amount (commencing 1 July 2007)
(1)	This clause applies if:
(a)	a person has received at least one payment from a defined benefit income stream before 1 July 2007, and is still receiving payments from the income stream; and
(b)	the person receives income support payment in respect of a continuous period starting before, and ending on or after, the person’s trigger day (see subclause (5)); and
(c)	the amount of the income support payment received before the person’s trigger day was affected by the deduction of a deductible amount (within the meaning of this Act or the Social Security Act, as the case requires, apart from this clause) from the amount of the payments payable to the person for a year under the income stream; and
(d)	if the person’s trigger day is after 1 July 2007—the income stream has not been partially commuted on or after 1 July 2007 and before the person’s trigger day.
Note 1:	If the income stream is wholly commuted, this clause will stop applying because the person will no longer be receiving payments from the income stream (see paragraphs (1)(a) and (d)).
Note 2:	For the deduction of a deductible amount from amounts payable under certain defined benefit income streams, see sections 46V and 46Y of this Act and sections 1099A and 1099D of the Social Security Act.
(2)	Despite the amendment of this Act by Part 2 of Schedule 9 to the Tax Laws Amendment (Simplified Superannuation) Act 2007, for the purposes of working out the amount of any service pension or income support supplement received by the person on or after the trigger day in respect of the remaining part of the period mentioned in paragraph (1)(b), the deductible amount, in relation to the income stream for a year, is the greater of the following amounts:
(a)	the deductible amount mentioned in paragraph (1)(c);
(b)	the sum of the amounts that are the tax free components (worked out under subsections 307-125(4) to (7) of the Income Tax (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997) of the payments received from the income stream during the year.
Note:	Service pension and income support supplement are income support payments within the meaning of the Social Security Act (see subsection 23(1) of that Act).
(3)	However, this clause stops applying to an income stream immediately after the time (if any) that the deductible amount in relation to the income stream is, under subclause (2), the amount mentioned in paragraph (2)(b).
(4)	For the purposes of this clause, without limiting paragraph (1)(b), if the form of a person’s income support payment mentioned in paragraph (1)(b) changes during a period, the continuity of the period is not broken by the change.
Example:	The form of a person’s income support payment may change from one kind of payment (for instance, a social security pension under the Social Security Act) to another (for instance, a service pension under this Act).
(5)	In this clause:
income support payment has the same meaning as in the Social Security Act.
trigger day, for a person, means:
(a)	if the person is under 60 years at the end of 30 June 2007—the day the person turns 60; or
(b)	if the person is 60 years or over at the end of 30 June 2007—1 July 2007.
	Part 2 — Aged care accommodation bonds: certain transactions before 6 November 1997
12 Overview of Part
(1)	The following is a basic summary of this Part.
(2)	For people who either:
(a)	became liable to pay an accommodation bond at any time from the beginning of 1 October 1997 until the end of 5 November 1997 but then agreed to switch to an accommodation charge; or
(b)	sold their principal home on or before 5 November 1997 in order to be able to pay certain accommodation bonds;
and for the partners of such people, certain amounts relating to refunds of such bonds, or to the proceeds of such sales, are excluded from the income and assets tests under this Act.
Note:	Accommodation bond and accommodation charge have the same meanings as in the Aged Care Act 2024: see subsection 5L(1) of this Act.
13 Scope of Part
(1)	This Part applies to a person if:
(a)	at any time from the beginning of 1 October 1997 until the end of 5 November 1997, the person became liable to pay an accommodation bond for entry to a residential care service; and
(b)	either an accommodation charge would have been payable for the entry, or the person would have been a charge exempt resident, had section 44-8B and Division 57A of the Aged Care (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 been in force at the time of the entry; and
(c)	the person later made an agreement (a refund agreement) with the provider of the service that the person’s liability to pay an accommodation bond for the entry was to be replaced with a liability to pay an accommodation charge for the entry, and that any payment of any of the bond was to be refunded to the person.
Note 1:	Accommodation bond and accommodation charge have the same meanings as in the Aged Care Act 2024: see subsection 5L(1) of this Act.
Note 2:	Charge exempt resident has the same meaning as in the Aged Care (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 (as in force immediately before the commencement of Schedule 1 to the Aged Care and Other Legislation Amendment (Royal Commission Response) Act 2022): see also clause 17 of this Schedule.
(2)	This Part also applies to a person if the Commission is satisfied that:
(a)	on or before 5 November 1997, the person sold his or her principal home for the sole or principal purpose of raising money to pay an accommodation bond for entry to a residential care service; and
(b)	either an accommodation charge would have been payable for the entry, or the person would have been a charge exempt resident, had section 44-8B and Division 57A of the Aged Care (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 been in force at the time of the entry.
Note 1:	Accommodation bond and accommodation charge have the same meanings as in the Aged Care Act 2024: see subsection 5L(1) of this Act.
Note 2:	Charge exempt resident has the same meaning as in the Aged Care (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 (as in force immediately before the commencement of Schedule 1 to the Aged Care and Other Legislation Amendment (Royal Commission Response) Act 2022): see also clause 17 of this Schedule.
(3)	This Part also applies to the partner of a person covered by subclause (1) or (2) (even if the person so covered is now deceased).
(4)	For the purposes of subclause (2), the time at which a person sells his or her home is the time when he or she comes under a legal obligation to transfer the home to the buyer.
14 Person’s ordinary income reduced using financial asset rules
(1)	For the purposes of this clause, assume that the person’s exempt bond amount (see clause 16) were a financial asset of the person.
(2)	The person’s ordinary income for a year is reduced by the amount of ordinary income taken to be received on the asset for the year, as worked out under Division 3 of Part IIIB of this Act (Deemed income from financial assets).
(3)	In working out that reduction, assume that the total value of the person’s financial assets exceeded the person’s deeming threshold (deeming threshold is a term used in that Division).
15 Value of person’s assets reduced
For the purposes of this Act (other than sections 52FA, 52G, 52GA, 52H, 52JA, 52JB, 52JC and 52JD), the total value of the person’s assets is reduced by the person’s exempt bond amount (see clause 16).
16 Meaning of exempt bond amount
(1)	The following is how to work out a person’s exempt bond amount.
(2)	If the person is covered by subclause 13(1) (but not subclause 13(2)), the person’s exempt bond amount is any amount of accommodation bond payment refunded to the person under the refund agreement mentioned in that subclause.
(3)	If the person is covered by subclause 13(2) (but not subclause 13(1)), the person’s exempt bond amount is the gross proceeds of the sale mentioned in that subclause, less:
(a)	any costs incurred in the course of the sale; and
(b)	the amount of any debt the person or the person’s partner owed immediately before the sale, so far as the debt was secured by the home at that time.
(4)	If the person is covered by both subclauses 13(1) and (2), the person’s exempt bond amount is the greater of the 2 amounts worked out under subclauses (2) and (3) of this clause.
(5)	If the person is covered by subclause 13(3), the person’s exempt bond amount is equal to the exempt bond amount of the person’s partner, as worked out under subclause (2), (3) or (4) of this clause.
(6)	But in all of the above cases, if the person currently has a partner (who is not deceased), the person’s exempt bond amount is half of what it would otherwise be.
	Part 2A — Charge exempt residents under the Aged Care (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997
17 Meaning of charge exempt resident
In this Part:
charge exempt resident has the same meaning as in the Aged Care (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 (as in force immediately before the commencement of Schedule 1 to the Aged Care and Other Legislation Amendment (Royal Commission Response) Act 2022).
17A Persons who became charge exempt residents before commencement
(1)	This clause applies if a person first became a charge exempt resident before the commencement of this clause.
(2)	If, at any time after becoming a charge exempt resident but before the commencement of this clause, the person, or the person’s partner, was earning, deriving or receiving any rent from the person’s principal home from another person, any such rent earned, derived or received while the person is a charge exempt resident is not income in relation to the person, or the person’s partner, for the purposes of this Act.
Note 1:	For rent, see subsection 5N(2).
Note 2:	Under subsections 5LA(8) and (9), and subclause (3) of this clause, the principal home of a person in a care situation may be a place other than the place where the person receives care.
(3)	A residence of a person is taken to be the person’s principal home for the purposes of this Act during:
(a)	if:
(i)	the Commission is satisfied that the residence was previously the person’s principal home but that the person left it for the purpose of going into a care situation or becoming an aged care resident; and
(ii)	at any time after leaving the residence but before the commencement of this clause, the person, or the person’s partner, earned, derived or received rent for the residence from another person;
any period during which:
(iii)	the person is a charge exempt resident; and
(iv)	the person, or the person’s partner, is earning, deriving or receiving rent for the residence from another person; and
(b)	any period during which the residence is, because of paragraph (a), the principal home of the person’s partner.
Note 1:	For rent see subsection 5N(2). For in a care situation see subsection 5NC(2). For aged care resident see subsection 5NC(5).
Note 2:	This subclause is not meant to imply that a person may have more than one principal home at the same time.
17B Refunds of accommodation charge
(1)	Clauses 17C and 17D apply to an amount (the refunded amount) that is refunded as mentioned in paragraph 56-1(kc) or 56-3(ic) of the Aged Care Act 1997 (as in force before 1 July 2014) to a person because the person is or was a charge exempt resident.
(2)	Those clauses also apply to an amount (also called the refunded amount) that is paid to a person under paragraph 44-8A(6)(b) of the Aged Care (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997 because the person is or was a charge exempt resident.
(3)	To avoid doubt, those clauses do not apply if the amount is paid to the person’s estate or to any other person.
17C Person’s ordinary income reduced using financial asset rules
(1)	For the purposes of this clause, assume that the refunded amount were a financial asset of the person.
(2)	The person’s ordinary income for a year is reduced by the amount of ordinary income taken to be received on the asset for the year, as worked out under Division 3 of Part IIIB of this Act (Deemed income from financial assets).
(3)	In working out that reduction, assume that the total value of the person’s financial assets exceeded the person’s deeming threshold (deeming threshold is a term used in that Division).
17D Value of person’s assets reduced
For the purposes of this Act (other than sections 52FA, 52G, 52GA, 52H, 52JA, 52JB, 52JC and 52JD), the total value of the person’s assets is reduced by the refunded amount.
17E Application of Part
This Part applies in relation to a person who is a charge exempt resident at any time, whether before or after the commencement of the Part.
	Part 3 — Transitional provisions: changes made by the Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Payment Processing) Act 1998
18 Definitions
In this Part:
amending Act means the Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Payment Processing) Act 1998.
pension means service pension under Part III or income support supplement under Part IIIA.
19 Payability and payment of pension during transition period
(1)	In spite of the commencement of Schedule 4 to the amending Act, until and including 12 July 1999, the question whether pension is payable to a person is to be determined in accordance with this Act as in force immediately before 1 July 1999.
(2)	In spite of the commencement of Schedule 4 to the amending Act, until and including 15 July 1999, instalments of pension are to be paid in accordance with this Act as in force immediately before 1 July 1999.
20 Continued operation of Act in relation to cancellation etc. of pensions
(1)	In spite of the commencement of Schedule 4 to the amending Act, this Act, as in force immediately before 1 July 1999, continues to apply in relation to the cancellation and suspension of pensions, and the variation of the rates of such pensions, until and including 12 July 1999.
(2)	Without limiting subclause (1), that subclause has effect:
(a)	in relation to the day on which a cancellation, suspension or variation takes effect; and
(b)	whether the cancellation, suspension or variation is effected by the operation of a provision of this Act or by a determination under this Act.
(3)	A cancellation, suspension or variation that, but for this subclause, would have taken effect on 15 July 1999 takes effect on 13 July 1999.
21 First pension period
A pension period under this Act, as amended by Schedule 4 to the amending Act, must not commence earlier than 13 July 1999.
22 Continued operation of certain notices given before 13 July 1999
If:
(a)	at any time before 13 July 1999, the Secretary has given a person a notice under section 54; and
(b)	the notice has not been revoked;
the notice continues to have effect on and after 13 July 1999 as if:
(c)	the notice had been given under this Act as amended by Schedule 4 to the amending Act; and
(d)	the notification period specified in the notice had been so specified in accordance with this Act as so amended.
23 Consequences of occurrence of certain events etc.
(1)	If:
(a)	the Secretary has, before 13 July 1999, given a person a notice under section 54; and
(b)	an event or change in circumstances specified in the notice occurs before 13 July 1999; and
(c)	the person to whom the notice was given notifies the Secretary, before 13 July 1999, of the occurrence of the event or change in circumstances;
this Act, as in force immediately before the commencement of Schedule 4 to the amending Act, has effect in relation to the day on which any cancellation or suspension of the pension that is being received by the person, or any variation of the rate of the pension, takes effect.
(2)	If:
(a)	the Secretary has, before 13 July 1999, given a person a notice under section 54; and
(b)	an event or change in circumstances specified in the notice occurs before 13 July 1999; and
(c)	the person to whom the notice was given does not notify the Department of the occurrence of the event or change in circumstances before 13 July 1999;
this Act, as amended by Schedule 4 to the amending Act, has effect, subject to subclause 20(3), in relation to the day on which any cancellation or suspension of the pension being received by the person, or any variation of the rate of the pension, takes effect.
24 Transitional regulations
(1)	Regulations made under section 216 may prescribe matters in relation to any transitional matters (including prescribing any saving or application provisions) arising out of amendments of this Act made by Schedule 4 to the amending Act.
(2)	Without limiting subclause (1), and in spite of any other provision in this or any other Act, regulations made by virtue of subclause (1) may:
(a)	modify the effect of a provision of this Part (other than this clause); or
(b)	substitute another provision for any provision of this Part (other than this clause).
	Part 4 — Transitional provisions: changes made by Schedule 5 to the Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget Measures) Act 2000
25 Definitions
In this Part:
amending Act means the Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget Measures) Act 2000.
pension means a pension under Part II or Part IV or an allowance under Part VI.
26 Payability and payment of pension during transition period
(1)	In spite of the commencement of Schedule 5 to the amending Act, until and including 9 July 2001, the question whether pension is payable to a person is to be determined in accordance with this Act as in force immediately before 1 July 2001.
(2)	In spite of the commencement of Schedule 5 to the amending Act, until and including 12 July 2001, instalments of pension are to be paid in accordance with this Act as in force immediately before 1 July 2001.
27 Continued operation of Act in relation to cancellation etc. of pensions
(1)	In spite of the commencement of Schedule 5 to the amending Act, this Act, as in force immediately before 1 July 2001, continues to apply in relation to the cancellation and suspension of pensions, and the variation of the rates of such pensions, until and including 9 July 2001.
(2)	Without limiting subclause (1), that subclause has effect:
(a)	in relation to the day on which a cancellation, suspension or variation takes effect; and
(b)	whether the cancellation, suspension or variation is effected by the operation of a provision of this Act or by a determination under this Act.
(3)	A cancellation, suspension or variation that, but for this subclause, would have taken effect on 12 July 2001 takes effect on 10 July 2001.
28 First pension period
A pension period under this Act, as amended by Schedule 5 to the amending Act, must not commence earlier than 10 July 2001.
29 Transitional regulations
(1)	Regulations made under section 216 may prescribe matters in relation to any transitional matters (including prescribing any saving or application provisions) arising out of amendments of this Act made by Schedule 5 to the amending Act.
(2)	Without limiting subclause (1), and in spite of any other provision in this or any other Act, regulations made by virtue of subclause (1) may:
(a)	modify the effect of a provision of this Part (other than this clause); or
(b)	substitute another provision for any provision of this Part (other than this clause).
	Part 5 — Transitional provisions: changes on 20 September 2009
30 Transitional rates of service pension and income support supplement on and after 20 September 2009
Application
(1)	This clause applies if:
(a)	on 19 September 2009 a person was receiving one of the following payments:
(i)	service pension or income support supplement;
(ii)	age pension, disability support pension, carer payment, bereavement allowance or special needs pension under the Social Security Act; and
(b)	either:
(i)	the person continues (without a break) to receive one of those payments (whether or not of the same sort as the one the person received on that day); or
(ii)	subclause (1A) applies to the person.
(1A)	This subclause applies to a person if:
(a)	a payment by the Thalidomide Australia Fixed Trust:
(i)	is made to, or applied for the benefit of, the person as a beneficiary of the Trust; or
(ii)	is made to, or applied for the benefit of, the person’s partner as a beneficiary of the Trust; or
(iii)	is made to the person or the person’s partner in respect of a beneficiary of the Trust; and
(b)	subparagraph (1)(b)(i) applies to the person immediately before the payment is made; and
(c)	any of the payments mentioned in paragraph (1)(a) is payable to the person at the commencement of item 7 of Schedule 4 to the Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs and Other Legislation Amendment (Election Commitments and Other Measures) Act 2011; and
(d)	after that commencement, that payment, or any of the other payments referred to in paragraph (1)(a), continues (without a break) to be payable to the person.
Purpose
(2)	This clause has effect for the purposes of working out the rate of service pension or income support supplement under this Act for the person for a day (the relevant day) after 19 September 2009 under subpoint SCH6-A1(2), (3), (4) or (6).
Note:	This clause does not make a person entitled to receive service pension or income support supplement if the person is not otherwise entitled to receive it.
Provisional payment rate for service pension
(3)	For working out the person’s rate of service pension, the person’s provisional payment rate is taken to be the amount worked out under subclause (4) if that amount is greater than the person’s provisional payment rate (for that purpose) apart from this clause.
Note:	The provisional payment rate is an amount worked out under the method statement in subpoint SCH6-A1(2). That subpoint may be relevant of its own force or because of subpoint SCH6-A1(3) or (4).
(4)	The amount is the one that would be the provisional payment rate under subpoint SCH6-A1(2) if:
(a)	the maximum payment rate under that subpoint for the person were the total of:
(i)	the amount worked out under whichever of subclauses 31(1), (2), (3) and (4) is relevant to the person; and
(ia)	the person’s energy supplement (if any) worked out using Module BB of the Rate Calculator; and
(ii)	the amount (if any) per year calculated for the person under Module C of the Rate Calculator (for rent assistance);
reduced, if subclause 31(1) or (2) is relevant to the person and an election by the person under subsection 60A(1) (about quarterly pension supplement) is in force, by the person’s minimum pension supplement amount; and
(b)	the amendments made by Schedules 6 and 7 to the Veterans’ Affairs and Other Legislation Amendment (Pension Reform) Act 2009 had not been made.
Note 1:	The maximum payment rate is an amount used in subpoint SCH6-A1(2).
Note 2:	Subclause 31(1) deals with a person in Australia who is not a member of a couple or is a member of an illness separated couple or respite care couple.
Note 3:	Subclause 31(2) deals with a person in Australia who is a member of a couple (but not a member of an illness separated couple or respite care couple).
Note 4:	Subclause 31(3) deals with a person who has been outside Australia for more than 6 weeks and is not a member of a couple or is a member of an illness separated couple or respite care couple.
Note 5:	Subclause 31(4) deals with a person who has been outside Australia for more than 6 weeks and is a member of a couple (but not a member of an illness separated couple or respite care couple).
Note 6:	The amount described in subparagraph (4)(a)(i) is indexed under Subdivision B (CPI indexation) of Division 18 of Part IIIB on and after 20 March 2010.
Note 7:	Section 65A may affect the inclusion of the energy supplement described in subparagraph (4)(a)(ia).
Provisional payment rate for income support supplement
(5)	For working out the person’s rate of income support supplement, the person’s provisional payment rate is taken to be the amount worked out under subclause (6) if that amount is greater than the person’s provisional payment rate (for that purpose) apart from this clause.
Note:	The provisional payment rate is an amount worked out under the method statement in subpoint SCH6-A1(6).
(6)	The amount is the one that would be the provisional payment rate under subpoint SCH6-A1(6) if:
(a)	the maximum payment rate under that subpoint for the person were the total of:
(i)	the amount worked out under whichever of subclauses 32(1) and (2) is relevant to the person; and
(ii)	the amount (if any) per year calculated for the person under Module C of the Rate Calculator (for rent assistance); and
reduced, if an election by the person under subsection 60A(1) (about quarterly pension supplement) is in force, by the person’s minimum pension supplement amount; and
(b)	the amendments made by Schedules 6 and 7 to the Veterans’ Affairs and Other Legislation Amendment (Pension Reform) Act 2009 had not been made; and
(c)	the increased rate were the amount worked out under subclause 32(3).
Note 1:	The maximum payment rate and increased rate are amounts used in subpoint SCH6-A1(6).
Note 2:	Subclause 32(1) deals with a person who is not a member of a couple or is a member of an illness separated couple or respite care couple.
Note 3:	Subclause 32(2) deals with a person who is a member of a couple (but not a member of an illness separated couple or respite care couple).
Note 4:	The amount described in subparagraph (6)(a)(i) is indexed under Subdivision B (CPI indexation) of Division 18 of Part IIIB on and after 20 March 2010.
Note 5:	The amount described in paragraph (6)(c) is affected by indexation because the components of that amount are indexed.
Limit on application of subclauses (3) and (5)
(7)	Neither subclause (3) nor subclause (5) applies for working out the rate of service pension or income support supplement of the person for the relevant day if the relevant day is after a day for which one of the following conditions was met:
(a)	the amount worked out for the day under subclause (4) (in a previous application of this clause) was less than or equal to the person’s provisional payment rate for service pension apart from this clause;
(b)	the amount worked out for the day under subclause (6) (in a previous application of this clause) was less than or equal to the person’s provisional payment rate for income support supplement apart from this clause;
(c)	the amount worked out for the day under subclause 146(4) of Schedule 1A to the Social Security Act was less than or equal to the person’s provisional annual payment rate, apart from clause 146 of that Schedule, for a social security pension described in that clause.
(8)	However, subclause (7) does not prevent subclause (3) or (5) from applying for working out the rate of service pension or income support supplement of the person for the relevant day if:
(a)	on the relevant day the person is a member of a couple, but not a member of an illness separated couple or respite care couple; and
(b)	on each day for which a condition in paragraph (7)(a), (b) or (c) was met, the person was a member of a respite care couple; and
(c)	on a day before all the days described in paragraph (b):
(i)	the person was a member of a couple, but not a member of an illness separated couple or respite care couple, and not partnered (partner in gaol) within the meaning of the Social Security Act; and
(ii)	either this clause affected the rate at which service pension or income support supplement was payable to the person or clause 146 of Schedule 1A to the Social Security Act affected the rate at which a social security pension described in that clause was payable to the person.
Note:	For member of a couple, illness separated couple and respite care couple see subsections 5E(1) and 5R(5) and (6) respectively.
31 Amounts affecting transitional rate of service pension
Single Australian resident in Australia
(1)	For the purposes of subparagraph 30(4)(a)(i), work out the amount as follows if, on the relevant day:
(a)	the person’s family situation is any of the following:
(i)	not a member of a couple;
(ii)	member of an illness separated couple;
(iii)	member of a respite care couple; and
(b)	the person is residing in Australia; and
(c)	the person either:
(i)	is in Australia; or
(ii)	is temporarily absent from Australia and has been so for a continuous period not exceeding 6 weeks.
Method statement
Step 1.	Work out what each of the following amounts would have been on 20 September 2009, taking account of indexation (if any) under Division 18 of Part IIIB or Part XII on that day, if the Veterans’ Affairs and Other Legislation Amendment (Pension Reform) Act 2009 had not been enacted:
(a)	the amount that would be the pension MBR (within the meaning of Division 18 of Part IIIB) for a person who is not a member of a couple assuming that section 59EA did not apply on 20 September 2009;
(b)	pension supplement (within the meaning of Division 18 of Part IIIB) for a person who is not (and was not on 1 July 2000) a member of a couple;
(c)	PA (service pension) rate (within the meaning of Division 18 of Part IIIB);
(d)	the rate of telephone allowance in subsection 118SA(1);
(e)	the rate of utilities allowance in section 118OC for a person who is not a member of a couple.
Step 2.	Identify the greater of the amount described in paragraph (e) of step 1 and $525.20 (or either of them if they are the same).
Step 3.	Add up all the amounts worked out under step 1 and the amount identified under step 2.
Step 4.	If the result of step 3 is not a multiple of $2.60, round that result up to the next multiple of $2.60.
Note 1:	For member of a couple, illness separated couple and respite care couple see subsections 5E(1) and 5R(5) and (6) respectively.
Note 2:	Subsection 5G(1A) is relevant to determining whether a person is residing in Australia.
Note 3:	Section 59A explains the abbreviations used in Division 18 of Part IIIB.
Partnered Australian resident in Australia
(2)	For the purposes of subparagraph 30(4)(a)(i), work out the amount as follows if, on the relevant day:
(a)	the person is a member of a couple, but not a member of an illness separated couple or respite care couple; and
(b)	the person is residing in Australia; and
(c)	the person either:
(i)	is in Australia; or
(ii)	is temporarily absent from Australia and has been so for a continuous period not exceeding 6 weeks.
Method statement
Step 1.	Work out what each of the following amounts would have been on 20 September 2009, taking account of indexation (if any) under Division 18 of Part IIIB or Part XII on that day, if the Veterans’ Affairs and Other Legislation Amendment (Pension Reform) Act 2009 had not been enacted:
(a)	the amount that would be the pension MBR (within the meaning of Division 18 of Part IIIB) for a member of a couple (other than an illness separated couple or a respite care couple) assuming that section 59EA did not apply on 20 September 2009;
(b)	pension supplement (within the meaning of Division 18 of Part IIIB) for a person who is (and was on 1 July 2000) a member of a couple (other than an illness separated couple or a respite care couple);
(c)	PA (service pension) rate (within the meaning of Division 18 of Part IIIB);
(d)	the rate of telephone allowance in subsection 118SA(2);
(e)	the rate of utilities allowance in section 118OC for a member of a couple (other than an illness separated couple or a respite care couple).
Step 2.	Identify the greater of the amount described in paragraph (e) of step 1 and $262.60 (or either of them if they are the same).
Step 3.	Add up all the amounts worked out under step 1 and the amount identified under step 2.
Step 4.	If the result of step 3 is not a multiple of $2.60, round that result up to the next multiple of $2.60.
Note 1:	For member of a couple, illness separated couple and respite care couple see subsections 5E(1) and 5R(5) and (6) respectively.
Note 2:	Subsection 5G(1A) is relevant to determining whether a person is residing in Australia.
Note 3:	Section 59A explains the abbreviations used in Division 18 of Part IIIB.
Single person not covered by subclause (1)
(3)	For the purposes of subparagraph 30(4)(a)(i), work out the amount as follows if, on the relevant day:
(a)	the person’s family situation is any of the following:
(i)	not a member of a couple;
(ii)	member of an illness separated couple;
(iii)	member of a respite care couple; and
(b)	the person either:
(i)	is not residing in Australia; or
(ii)	is absent from Australia and has been so for a continuous period exceeding 6 weeks.
Method statement
Step 1.	Work out what each of the following amounts would have been on 20 September 2009, taking account of indexation under Division 18 of Part IIIB on that day, if the Veterans’ Affairs and Other Legislation Amendment (Pension Reform) Act 2009 had not been enacted:
(a)	the amount that would be the pension MBR (within the meaning of Division 18 of Part IIIB) for a person who is not a member of a couple assuming that section 59EA did not apply on 20 September 2009;
(b)	pension supplement (within the meaning of Division 18 of Part IIIB) for a person who is not (and was not on 1 July 2000) a member of a couple.
Step 2.	Add up the amounts worked out under step 1.
Note 1:	For member of a couple, illness separated couple and respite care couple see subsections 5E(1) and 5R(5) and (6) respectively.
Note 2:	Subsection 5G(1A) is relevant to determining whether a person is residing in Australia.
Note 3:	Section 59A explains the abbreviations used in Division 18 of Part IIIB.
Partnered person not covered by subclause (2)
(4)	For the purposes of subparagraph 30(4)(a)(i), work out the amount as follows if, on the relevant day:
(a)	the person is a member of a couple, but not a member of an illness separated couple or respite care couple; and
(b)	the person either:
(i)	is not residing in Australia; or
(ii)	is absent from Australia and has been so for a continuous period exceeding 6 weeks.
Method statement
Step 1.	Work out what each of the following amounts would have been on 20 September 2009, taking account of indexation under Division 18 of Part IIIB on that day, if the Veterans’ Affairs and Other Legislation Amendment (Pension Reform) Act 2009 had not been enacted:
(a)	the amount that would be the pension MBR (within the meaning of Division 18 of Part IIIB) for a member of a couple (other than an illness separated couple or a respite care couple) assuming that section 59EA did not apply on 20 September 2009;
(b)	pension supplement (within the meaning of Division 18 of Part IIIB) for a person who is (and was on 1 July 2000) a member of a couple (other than an illness separated couple or a respite care couple).
Step 2.	Add up the amounts worked out under step 1.
Note 1:	For member of a couple, illness separated couple and respite care couple see subsections 5E(1) and 5R(5) and (6) respectively.
Note 2:	Subsection 5G(1A) is relevant to determining whether a person is residing in Australia.
Note 3:	Section 59A explains the abbreviations used in Division 18 of Part IIIB.
32 Amounts affecting transitional rate of income support supplement
Single person’s component of maximum basic rate
(1)	For the purposes of subparagraph 30(6)(a)(i), work out the amount as follows if, on the relevant day, the person’s family situation is:
(a)	not a member of a couple; or
(b)	member of an illness separated couple; or
(c)	member of a respite care couple.
Method statement
Step 1.	Work out what each of the following amounts (described using the abbreviation in section 59A for the amount) would have been on 20 September 2009, taking account of indexation (if any) under Division 18 of Part IIIB on that day, if the Veterans’ Affairs and Other Legislation Amendment (Pension Reform) Act 2009 had not been enacted:
(a)	the amount that would be the pension MBR for a person who is not a member of a couple assuming that section 59EA did not apply on 20 September 2009;
(b)	pension supplement for a person who is not (and was not on 1 July 2000) a member of a couple.
Step 2.	Add up all the amounts worked out under step 1.
Note:	For member of a couple, illness separated couple and respite care couple see subsections 5E(1) and 5R(5) and (6) respectively.
Partnered person’s component of maximum basic rate
(2)	For the purposes of subparagraph 30(6)(a)(i), work out the amount as follows if, on the relevant day, the person is a member of a couple, but not a member of an illness separated couple or respite care couple:
Method statement
Step 1.	Work out what each of the following amounts (described using the abbreviation in section 59A for the amount) would have been on 20 September 2009, taking account of indexation (if any) under Division 18 of Part IIIB on that day, if the Veterans’ Affairs and Other Legislation Amendment (Pension Reform) Act 2009 had not been enacted:
(a)	the amount that would be the pension MBR for a member of a couple (other than an illness separated couple or a respite care couple) assuming that section 59EA did not apply on 20 September 2009;
(b)	pension supplement for a person who is (and was on 1 July 2000) a member of a couple (other than an illness separated couple or a respite care couple).
Step 2.	Add up all the amounts worked out under step 1.
Note:	For member of a couple, illness separated couple and respite care couple see subsections 5E(1) and 5R(5) and (6) respectively.
Increased rate
(3)	For the purposes of paragraph 30(6)(c), work out the amount for the person as follows:
Method statement
Step 1.	Work out the ceiling rate for the person (see Module A of the Rate Calculator).
Step 2.	Work out the amount per year (if any) for rent assistance for the person (see Module C of the Rate Calculator).
Step 3.	Add up the results of steps 1 and 2 and, if an election by the person under subsection 60A(1) (about quarterly pension supplement) is in force, subtract the person’s minimum pension supplement amount.
33 Rate of payments to partners of persons affected by clause 30
(1)	This clause applies if clause 30 applies to a person who is a member of a couple and that clause affects the rate at which service pension or income support supplement is payable to the person.
(2)	In working out the amount of a payment under this Act payable to a partner of the person, assume that the service pension or income support supplement payable to the person is payable at the rate at which it would be payable if clause 30 had not been enacted.
34 Payment and income tax consequences of receiving service pension or income support supplement at rate affected by clause 30
Application
(1)	This clause applies if clause 30 affects the rate at which service pension or income support supplement is payable to a person.
Purpose
(2)	The purpose of this clause is to ensure that the person is treated appropriately in relation to the payment, and income taxation, of the pension or supplement by modifying the operation of this Act (and thus affecting the related income tax law) in relation to the person and the pension or supplement.
Note:	This clause does not modify the operation of subsection 5GA(3), which provides for working out the person’s minimum pension supplement amount.
Pension supplement amount
(3)	This Act applies in relation to the person’s pension or supplement as if each of the following:
(a)	the amount described in subparagraph 30(4)(a)(i), as affected by any indexation and any relevant reduction described in paragraph 30(4)(a);
(b)	the amount described in subparagraph 30(6)(a)(i), as affected by any indexation and any relevant reduction described in paragraph 30(6)(a);
were an amount worked out and added under the pension supplement Module of the Rate Calculator.
Note 1:	One effect of subclause (3) is that whichever of the amounts described in paragraphs (3)(a) and (b) is relevant is the person’s pension supplement amount (as defined in subsection 5Q(1) of this Act).
Note 2:	If that amount exceeds the person’s pension supplement basic amount (as affected by subclause (4)), another effect of subclause (3) is that the excess affects the tax-exempt pension supplement under subsection 5GA(5) of this Act in some cases.
Note 3:	Yet another effect of subclause (3) is that clause 4 of Schedule 6 will affect the operation of reductions of the maximum payment rate because of the income test and assets test in some cases.
Pension supplement basic amount
(4)	This Act applies in relation to the person’s service pension or income support supplement as if:
(a)	each reference in the table in subsection 5GA(4) to $509.60 were a reference to $14,903.20; and
(b)	the reference in the table in subsection 5GA(4) to $426.40 were a reference to $12,448.80.
Note 1:	This affects the person’s pension supplement basic amount.
Note 2:	The provisions for indexing amounts in the table in subsection 5GA(4) apply to the higher figures mentioned in this subclause.
Energy supplement
(5)	If subclause 31(1) or (2) is relevant to the person, this Act applies in relation to the person’s service pension as if the person’s energy supplement (if any) resulting from Module BB of the Rate Calculator were used to work out the rate of the person’s service pension.
Note 1:	This energy supplement is included in the total worked out under paragraph 30(4)(a) (see subparagraph 30(4)(a)(ia)).
Note 2:	Subclause (5) causes section 62E to apply. If quarterly energy supplement is payable, then no energy supplement will be available to be included in the total worked out under paragraph 30(4)(a) (see point SCH6-BB2 of the Rate Calculator).
Note 3:	Other effects of subclause (5) include:
(a)	the possibility of the minimum amount of fortnightly instalments of the pension being affected under section 58A; and
(b)	clause 4 of Schedule 6 affecting the operation of reductions of the maximum payment rate because of the ordinary/adjusted income test and assets test.
35 Special rules for indexation of rates payable under clause 30
(1)	This clause applies if clause 30 affects the rate at which service pension is payable to a person for a day on or after 20 March 2013.
(2)	Subsection 198MA(2), and the definition of brought forward CPI indexation amount (except paragraph (b) of that definition) in subsection 198MA(3), apply in relation to the amount described in subparagraph 30(4)(a)(i) of this Schedule for the person in the same way as they apply in relation to the person’s PS minimum rate.
(3)	The following provisions do not affect the rate of the person’s service pension worked out under clause 30 or an amount worked out in relation to the person’s pension because of clause 34:
(a)	subparagraph 198MA(2)(b)(vi);
(b)	section 198MB.
	Schedule 6 — Calculation of rates of service pension, income support supplement and veteran payment
	Part 1 — Preliminary
1 Steps in rate calculation
(1)	The following are the usual steps in the rate calculation process:
(a)	start with a maximum basic rate;
(b)	add any additional amounts that are subject to income or assets testing;
(c)	apply the income and assets tests;
(d)	add any additional amounts that are not subject to income or assets testing.
Note 1:	The additional amounts referred to in paragraph (b) are amounts for pension supplement, energy supplement and rent assistance.
Note 2:	The only additional amount for the purposes of paragraph (d) at this time is remote area allowance.
(2)	The overall rate calculation process is described in the relevant Method statement in Module A of the Rate calculator.
2 Standard categories of family situations
(1)	The Rate Calculator uses the following standard categories of family situations:
(a)	not member of a couple;
(b)	member of a couple or partnered;
(c)	member of an illness separated couple;
(d)	member of a respite care couple;
(e)	partnered (partner getting neither pension nor benefit);
(f)	partnered (partner getting pension);
(g)	partnered (partner getting benefit).
Note:	See sections 5E and 5R for definitions of those terms.
(2)	If it is necessary to distinguish between the members of sub-categories of these standard categories, further words of description are added to the standard category label.
3 Explanation of Rate Calculator
(1)	The Rate Calculator is divided into Modules (for example, Module A).
(2)	A Module of the Rate Calculator is divided into points.
(3)	The points in a Module are identified by:
(a)	the letters and number SCH6 (followed by a dash), which indicate that the Module is in the Rate Calculator in this Schedule; and
(b)	a letter that is the letter allocated to the Module in which the point occurs; and
(c)	a number that identifies the order of the point within the Module.
Example:	Point SCH6-E2 is the 2nd point in Module E of the Rate Calculator in this Schedule.
(4)	A point in a Module may be divided into subpoints.
4 Application for income tax purposes of reductions in respect of service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment
Service pension and veteran payment
(1)	If a person’s rate of service pension or veteran payment is affected by a reduction under any or all of the following:
(a)	Module E (ordinary/adjusted income test) of the Rate Calculator;
(b)	Module F (assets test) of the Rate Calculator;
(c)	section 59T (compensation recovery);
the reduction is to be applied as follows (in descending order):
Item
Component of the rate
1
all of the rate apart from the person’s pension supplement amount and any increase under Module C (rent assistance) of the Rate Calculator
2
the portion of the person’s pension supplement amount equal to the person’s pension supplement basic amount
3
(a) if an election by the person under subsection 60A(1) is in force—any remaining portion of the person’s pension supplement amount; or
(b) otherwise—any remaining portion of the person’s pension supplement amount to the extent to which it exceeds the person’s minimum pension supplement amount
4
the amount of any increase under Module C
4A
the amount of any increase under Module BB
5
the person’s minimum pension supplement amount
Note 1:	Table item 4A will not apply if an election by the person under subsection 60A(1) is in force, as there will not be any increase under Module BB (see point SCH6-BB2 of the Rate Calculator).
Note 2:	Table item 5 will not apply if an election by the person under subsection 60A(1) is in force, as the rate would have already been reduced to nil.
Note 3:	Section 60A applies to a person receiving a service pension (but does not apply to a person receiving a veteran payment).
(2)	If a person’s rate of service pension:
(a)	is worked out under subpoint SCH6-A1(4) of Schedule 6 and is the revised rate; or
(b)	is worked out under subpoint SCH6-A1(5) of Schedule 6;
subclause (1) applies in relation to the person and the pension as if:
(c)	paragraphs (1)(a) and (b) were omitted; and
(d)	the person had a pension supplement amount equal to what would be the person’s pension supplement amount if the person were receiving the service pension at the rate worked out under subpoint SCH6-A1(4) of Schedule 6 and equal to the provisional rate.
Income support supplement
(3)	If a person’s rate of income support supplement is affected by a reduction under any or all of the following:
(a)	Module E (ordinary/adjusted income test) of the Rate Calculator;
(b)	Module F (assets test) of the Rate Calculator;
(c)	section 59T (compensation recovery);
the reduction is to be applied as follows (in descending order):
Item
Component of the rate
1
all of the rate apart from any increase under Module C (rent assistance) of the Rate Calculator and the person’s minimum pension supplement amount
2
the amount of any increase under Module C
3
the person’s minimum pension supplement amount
Quarterly pension supplement
(4)	If:
(a)	the rate (the main rate) of a person’s service pension or income support supplement is to be reduced as described in subclause (1) (applying of its own force or as affected by subclause (2)) or subclause (3); and
(b)	an election by the person under subsection 60A(1) is in force;
the person’s quarterly pension supplement is reduced to the same extent (if any) that the component of the main rate that would correspond to the person’s minimum pension supplement amount would be reduced under subclause (1) or (3) were the election not in force.
Note:	The reduction will be disregarded unless the person’s quarterly pension supplement is reduced to nil (see subsection 60C(4)).
Quarterly energy supplement for service pension
(5)	If:
(a)	the rate (the main rate) of a person’s service pension is to be reduced as described in subclause (1) (applying of its own force or as affected by subclause (2)); and
(b)	an election by the person under subsection 60A(1) is in force;
the person’s quarterly energy supplement is reduced to the same extent (if any) that the component of the main rate that would correspond to the person’s energy supplement would be reduced under subclause (1) were the election not in force.
Note:	The reduction will be disregarded unless the main rate would be reduced to nil (see subsection 62E(6)).
5 Commencing rates
(1)	The amounts and rates set out in the Rate Calculator at the time of commencement of this Schedule (the commencing time) are the same as the corresponding amounts and rates that applied under this Act as in force on 1 January 1997.
(2)	However, each amount or rate so set out that is subject to indexation or adjustment under Division 18 of Part IIIB is taken to be replaced immediately after the commencing time by the amount or rate that would have been in force at that time as a result of the application of that Division if this Schedule had commenced on 1 January 1997.
	Part 2 — Rate Calculator
Module A—Overall rate calculation process
Rate to be an annual rate
SCH6-A1(1)	The rate of service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment is an annual rate (fortnightly amounts are provided for information only).
Method statement 1 (service pension, not blind, not war widow/war widower—pensioner)
(2)	The rate of service pension for a person who:
(a)	is not permanently blind; and
(b)	is not a war widow/war widower—pensioner;
is worked out in accordance with Method statement 1.
Note:	For war widow/war widower—pensioner see subsection 5Q(1).
Method statement 1
Step 1.	Work out the person’s maximum basic rate using MODULE B below.
Step 1A.	Work out the amount of pension supplement using Module BA below.
Step 1B.	Work out the amount of energy supplement (if any) using Module BB below.
Step 2.	Work out the amount per year (if any) by way of rent assistance using MODULE C below.
Step 4.	Add up the amounts obtained in Steps 1, 1A, 1B and 2: the result is called the maximum payment rate.
Note:	Section 65A may affect whether the amount obtained in step 1B is added.
Step 5.	Apply the ordinary/adjusted income test using MODULE E below to work out the reduction for ordinary/adjusted income.
Step 6.	Take the reduction for ordinary/adjusted income away from the maximum payment rate: the result is called the income reduced rate.
Step 7.	Apply the assets test using MODULE F below to work out the reduction for assets.
Step 8.	Take the reduction for assets away from the maximum payment rate: the result is called the assets reduced rate.
Step 9.	Compare the income reduced rate and the assets reduced rate: the lower of the 2 rates, or the income reduced rate if the rates are equal, is the provisional payment rate.
Step 10.	Work out the amount per year (if any) payable by way of remote area allowance using MODULE G below.
Step 11.	Add any amount obtained in Step 10 to the person’s provisional payment rate (see Step 9). The result is the person’s rate of service pension.
Note 1:	For ordinary/adjusted income see point SCH6-E1.
Note 2:	If a person’s assets reduced rate is less than the person’s ordinary/adjusted income reduced rate, the person may be able to take advantage of provisions dealing with financial hardship (sections 52Y and 52Z).
Note 4:	If a person’s rate is reduced under step 9, the order in which the reduction is to be made against the components of the maximum payment rate is laid down by clause 4 of Part 1.
Note 4A:	Clause 30 of Schedule 5 may affect the provisional payment rate in step 9.
Note 5:	The rate calculation for a member of a couple is affected by the operation of point SCH6-A2.
Note 6:	The amount of a fortnightly instalment of service pension will be rounded to the nearest cent (see subsection 58A(5)).
Note 7:	For the minimum amount of a fortnightly instalment of service pension, see subsection 58A(9).
Note 8:	An amount of remote area allowance is to be added under Step 11 only if the person’s rate of service pension is greater than nil or, apart from section 36A, 37A or 38A, the person’s rate of service pension would be nil.
Note 9:	The amount of a fortnightly instalment of service pension may be reduced by an advance payment deduction (see Division 6 of Part IVA).
Method statement 2 (service pension, blind, not war widow/war widower—pensioner)
(3)	The rate of service pension for a person who:
(a)	is permanently blind; and
(b)	is not a war widow/war widower—pensioner;
is worked out in accordance with Method statement 2.
Note:	For war widow/war widower—pensioner see subsection 5Q(1).
Method statement 2
Step 1.	Work out what would be the person’s rate of service pension if Method statement 1 applied to the person: the result is called the notional income/assets tested rate.
Note:	This is the only situation in which a blind person’s pension can be made subject to an income test or assets test (see point SCH6-A3).
Step 2.	Work out the person’s maximum basic rate using MODULE B below.
Step 2A.	Work out the amount of pension supplement using Module BA below.
Step 2B.	Work out the amount of energy supplement (if any) using Module BB below.
Step 4.	Add up the amounts obtained in Steps 2, 2A and 2B: the result is called the maximum payment rate.
Note:	Section 65A may affect whether the amount obtained in step 2B is added.
Step 5.	Work out the amount per year (if any) payable by way of remote area allowance using MODULE G below.
Step 6.	Add:
(a)	the maximum payment rate; and
(b)	any amount obtained under Step 5.
The result is called the non-income/assets tested rate.
Step 7.	Compare the notional income/assets tested rate and the non-income/assets tested rate: whichever is the greater is the person’s rate of service pension.
Note 1:	The amount of a fortnightly instalment of service pension will be rounded to the nearest cent (see subsection 58A(5)).
Note 2:	For the minimum amount of a fortnightly instalment of service pension, see subsection 58A(9).
Note 3:	The amount of a fortnightly instalment of service pension may be reduced by an advance payment deduction (see Division 6 of Part IVA).
Method statement 3 (service pension, not blind, war widow/war widower—pensioner)
(4)	The rate of service pension for a person who:
(a)	is not permanently blind; and
(b)	is a war widow/war widower—pensioner;
is worked out in accordance with Method statement 3.
Note:	For war widow/war widower—pensioner see subsection 5Q(1).
Method statement 3
Step 1.	Work out what would be the person’s rate of service pension if Method statement 1, except step 1B of that method statement, applied to the person: the result is called the provisional rate.
Step 2.	Work out the person’s ceiling rate in accordance with points SCH6-A4 to SCH6-A9.
Step 2A.	Work out the amount per year (if any) for rent assistance using MODULE C below.
Step 4.	Work out the amount per year (if any) payable by way of remote area allowance using MODULE G below.
Step 5.	Add:
(a)	the ceiling rate; and
(b)	any amount obtained under step 2A; and
(c)	any amount obtained under step 4;
and, if an election by the person under subsection 60A(1) (about quarterly pension supplement) is in force, subtract the person’s minimum pension supplement amount. The result is the revised rate.
Step 6.	Compare the provisional rate and the revised rate: the person’s rate of service pension is:
(a)	the provisional rate if it is lower than the revised rate; or
(b)	the revised rate if it is lower than or equal to the provisional rate.
Note:	The amount of a fortnightly instalment of service pension may be reduced by an advance payment deduction (see Division 6 of Part IVA).
Method statement 4 (service pension, blind, war widow/war widower—pensioner)
(5)	The rate of service pension for a person who:
(a)	is permanently blind; and
(b)	is a war widow/war widower—pensioner;
is worked out in accordance with Method statement 4.
Note:	For war widow/war widower—pensioner see subsection 5Q(1).
Method statement 4
Step 1.	Work out the person’s ceiling rate in accordance with points SCH6-A4 to SCH6-A9.
Step 1A.	Work out the amount per year (if any) for rent assistance using MODULE C below.
Step 3.	Work out the amount per year (if any) payable by way of remote area allowance using MODULE G below.
Step 4.	Add:
(a)	the ceiling rate; and
(b)	any amount obtained under step 1A; and
(c)	any amount obtained under step 3;
and, if an election by the person under subsection 60A(1) (about quarterly pension supplement) is in force, subtract the person’s minimum pension supplement amount. The result is the person’s rate of service pension.
Note:	The amount of a fortnightly instalment of service pension may be reduced by an advance payment deduction (see Division 6 of Part IVA).
Method statement 5 (income support supplement, not blind)
(6)	The rate of income support supplement for a person who is not permanently blind is worked out in accordance with Method statement 5.
Method statement 5
Step 1.	Work out the amount of the person’s maximum basic rate using MODULE B below.
Step 1A.	Work out the amount of pension supplement using Module BA below.
Step 2.	Work out the amount per year (if any) for rent assistance using MODULE C below.
Step 4.	Add up the amounts obtained in Steps 1, 1A and 2: the result is called the maximum payment rate.
Step 5.	Apply the ordinary/adjusted income test using MODULE E below to work out the reduction for ordinary/adjusted income.
Step 6.	Take the reduction for ordinary/adjusted income away from the maximum payment rate: the result is called the income reduced rate.
Step 7.	Apply the assets test using MODULE F below to work out the reduction for assets.
Step 8.	Take the reduction for assets away from the maximum payment rate: the result is called the assets reduced rate.
Step 9.	Work out the person’s ceiling rate in accordance with points SCH6-A4 to SCH6-A9.
Step 9A.	Add:
(a)	the ceiling rate; and
(b)	any amount obtained under step 2;
and, if an election by the person under subsection 60A(1) (about quarterly pension supplement) is in force, subtract the person’s minimum pension supplement amount. The result is the increased rate.
Step 10.	Compare the income reduced rate (see Step 6), the assets reduced rate (see Step 8) and the increased rate (see step 9A): the person’s provisional payment rate is equal to:
(a)	whichever is the lowest of those rates; or
(b)	if 2 of those rates are the same and the third one is higher—the lower rate; or
(c)	if the 3 rates are the same—the income reduced rate.
Step 11.	Work out the amount per year (if any) payable by way of remote area allowance using MODULE G below.
Step 12.	Add any amount obtained in Step 11 to the person’s provisional payment rate (see Step 10): the result is the person’s rate of income support supplement.
Note 1:	For ordinary/adjusted income see point SCH6-E1.
Note 2:	If a person’s assets reduced rate is less than the person’s adjusted income reduced rate, the person may be able to take advantage of provisions dealing with financial hardship (sections 52Y and 52Z).
Note 4:	If a person’s rate is reduced under Step 10, the order in which the reduction is to be made against the components of the maximum payment rate is laid down by clause 4 of Part 1.
Note 4A:	Clause 30 of Schedule 5 may affect the provisional payment rate in step 10.
Note 5:	The rate calculation for a member of a couple is affected by the operation of point SCH6-A2.
Note 6:	The amount of a fortnightly instalment of income support supplement will be rounded to the nearest cent (see subsection 58A(5)).
Note 7:	For the minimum amount of a fortnightly instalment of income support supplement, see subsection 58A(9).
Note 8:	The amount of a fortnightly instalment of income support supplement may be reduced by an advance payment deduction (see Division 6 of Part IVA).
Method statement 6 (income support supplement, blind)
(7)	The rate of income support supplement for a permanently blind person is worked out in accordance with Method statement 6.
Method statement 6
Step 1.	Work out the person’s ceiling rate in accordance with points SCH6-A4 and SCH6-A5.
Step 1A.	Work out the amount per year (if any) for rent assistance using MODULE C below.
Step 3.	Work out the amount per year (if any) payable by way of remote area allowance using MODULE G below.
Step 4.	Add:
(a)	the ceiling rate; and
(b)	any amount obtained under step 1A; and
(c)	any amount obtained under step 3;
and, if an election by the person under subsection 60A(1) (about quarterly pension supplement) is in force, subtract the person’s minimum pension supplement amount. The result is the person’s rate of income support supplement.
Note:	The amount of a fortnightly instalment of income support supplement may be reduced by an advance payment deduction (see Division 6 of Part IVA).
Method statement 7 (veteran payment, not blind)
(8)	The rate of veteran payment for a person who is not permanently blind is worked out in accordance with method statement 7.
Method statement 7
Step 1.	Work out the person’s maximum basic rate using Module B below.
Step 2.	Work out the amount of pension supplement using Module BA below.
Step 3.	Work out the amount per year (if any) by way of rent assistance using Module C below.
Step 4.	Add up the amounts obtained in steps 1, 2, and 3: the result is called the maximum payment rate.
Step 5.	Apply the ordinary/adjusted income test using Module E below to work out the reduction for ordinary/adjusted income.
Step 6.	Take the reduction for ordinary/adjusted income away from the maximum payment rate: the result is called the income reduced rate.
Step 7.	Apply the assets test using Module F below to work out the reduction for assets.
Step 8.	Take the reduction for assets away from the maximum payment rate: the result is called the assets reduced rate.
Step 9.	Compare the income reduced rate and the assets reduced rate: the lower of the 2 rates, or the income reduced rate if the rates are equal, is the provisional payment rate.
Step 10.	Work out the amount per year (if any) payable by way of remote area allowance using Module G below.
Step 11.	Add any amount obtained in step 10 to the person’s provisional payment rate (see step 9). The result is the person’s rate of veteran payment.
Note 1:	For ordinary/adjusted income see point SCH6-E1.
Note 2:	If a person’s assets reduced rate is less than the person’s income reduced rate, the person may be able to take advantage of provisions dealing with financial hardship (sections 52Y and 52Z).
Note 3:	If a person’s rate is reduced because of Module E or F, the order in which the reduction is to be made against the components of the maximum payment rate is laid down by clause 4 of Part 1.
Note 4:	The rate calculation for a member of a couple is affected by the operation of point SCH6-A2.
Note 5:	The rate of veteran payment for a day will be rounded to the nearest cent (see subsection 58A(5)).
Note 6:	For the minimum amount of a fortnightly instalment of veteran payment, see subsection 58A(9).
Note 7:	An amount of remote area allowance is to be added under step 11 only if the person’s rate of veteran payment is greater than nil.
Method statement 8 (veteran payment, blind)
(9)	The rate of veteran payment for a person who is permanently blind is worked out in accordance with method statement 8.
Method statement 8
Step 1.	Work out what would be the person’s rate of veteran payment if method statement 7 applied to the person: the result is called the notional income/assets tested rate.
Note:	This is the only situation in which a blind person’s veteran payment can be made subject to an income test or assets test (see point SCH6-A3).
Step 2.	Work out the person’s maximum basic rate using Module B below.
Step 3.	Work out the amount of pension supplement using Module BA below.
Step 4.	Add up the amounts obtained in steps 2 and 3: the result is called the maximum payment rate.
Step 5.	Work out the amount per year (if any) payable by way of remote area allowance using Module G below.
Step 6.	Add:
(a)	the maximum payment rate; and
(b)	any amount obtained under step 5.
The result is called the non-income/assets tested rate.
Step 7.	Compare the notional income/assets tested rate and the non-income/assets tested rate: whichever is the greater is the person’s rate of veteran payment.
Note 1:	The rate of veteran payment for a day will be rounded to the nearest cent (see subsection 58A(5)).
Note 2:	For the minimum amount of a fortnightly instalment of veteran payment, see subsection 58A(9).
Members of couple
SCH6-A2	If 2 people are members of a couple, they will be treated as pooling their resources (income and assets) and sharing those resources on a 50/50 basis (see points SCH6-E3 and SCH6-F2 below). They will also be treated as sharing expenses (eg for rent) on a 50/50 basis (see points SCH6-C10 and SCH6-C11 below).
Ordinary/adjusted income test and assets test generally not to apply to permanently blind people
SCH6-A3	Except for the purposes of Step 1 in Method statement 2 (applicable in respect of permanently blind service pensioners who are not war widows/war widowers—pensioners) or in method statement 8 (applicable in respect of permanently blind veteran payment recipients), a permanently blind person’s service pension or veteran payment is not subject to an ordinary/adjusted income test (compare Module E) or an assets test (compare Module F).
Note:	For war widow/war widower—pensioner see subsection 5Q(1).
Ceiling rate
SCH6-A4	The ceiling rate for a war widow/war widower—pensioner is $3,247.40 unless point SCH6-A5 applies to him or her.
Note 1:	For war widow/war widower—pensioner see subsection 5Q(1).
Note 2:	The ceiling rate is adjusted 6 monthly in line with service pensions (see section 59LA).
SCH6-A5	If:
(a)	a person became a war widow/war widower—pensioner before 1 November 1986; and
(b)	immediately before that day the person was receiving a social security pension at a rate (the pre-November 1986 rate) equal to or more than $3,122.60; and
(c)	since that day the person has been continuously receiving the social security pension or income support supplement;
his or her ceiling rate is, subject to point SCH6-A5A, equal to the pre-November 1986 rate.
Note:	For war widow/war widower—pensioner see subsection 5Q(1).
SCH6-A5A	On and after 1 July 2000, the ceiling rate referred to in point SCH6-A5 is taken to be equal to the pre-November 1986 rate increased by 4%.
SCH6-A6	However, if:
(a)	a war widow/war widower—pensioner is a person:
(i)	to whom income support supplement or service pension is payable; and
(ii)	who is not permanently blind; and
(b)	the person’s pension under Part II or IV is compensation reduced;
the ceiling rate for the war widow/war widower—pensioner is the sum of:
(c)	the rate applying under point SCH6-A4 or SCH6-A5, as the case may be; and
(d)	the amount of the reduction in the pension under Part II or IV worked out under points SCH6-A7 to SCH6-A9.
Note:	For war widow/war widower—pensioner see subsection 5Q(1).
Compensation reduced pension under Part II or IV
SCH6-A7	A pension under Part II payable to a war widow/war widower—pensioner is compensation reduced if that pension has been reduced:
(a)	by taking into account (under subsection 30(3)) the rate, or amount, of any payment that he or she is entitled to receive under the law of a State or of a foreign country; or
(b)	by taking into account (under Division 5A of that Part) the rate at which any compensation is payable to him or her.
Note:	For war widow/war widower—pensioner see subsection 5Q(1).
SCH6-A8	A pension under Part IV payable to a war widow/war widower—pensioner is compensation reduced if that pension has been reduced by taking into account (under Division 4 of that Part) the rate at which any compensation is payable to him or her.
Note:	For war widow/war widower—pensioner see subsection 5Q(1).
SCH6-A9	The amount of the reduction in the pension under Part II or IV is worked out by using the formula:
where:
full pension rate means the amount per annum that would have been the annual rate of the pension under Part II or IV if it had not been reduced.
compensation reduced rate means the annual rate of pension under Part II or IV payable after that pension has been reduced.
Module B—Maximum basic rate
Maximum basic rate for service pension or income support supplement
SCH6-B1	A person’s maximum basic rate for service pension or income support supplement depends on the person’s family situation. Work out which family situation in Table B-1 applies to the person. The maximum basic rate is the corresponding amount in column 3.
Table B-1—Maximum basic rates for service pension or income support supplement
Column 1
Item
Column 2
Person’s family situation
Column 3
Rate per year
$
Column 4
Rate per fortnight
$
1.
Not a member of a couple
9,006.40
346.40
A member of an illness separated couple
A member of a respite care couple
2.
Partnered
7,511.40
288.90
Note 1:	For member of a couple and partnered see section 5E, and for illness separated couple and respite care couple see subsections 5R(5) and (6).
Note 2:	The maximum basic rates are adjusted 6 monthly: see sections 59B to 59G.
Maximum basic rate for veteran payment
SCH6-B2	A person’s maximum basic rate for veteran payment depends on the person’s family situation. Work out which family situation in Table B-2 applies to the person. The maximum basic rate is the corresponding amount in column 3.
Table B-2—Maximum basic rates for veteran payment
Column 1
Item
Column 2
Person’s family situation
Column 3
Rate per year
$
Column 4
Rate per fortnight
$
1
Not a member of a couple
23,764
914
A member of an illness separated couple
A member of a respite care couple
2
Partnered
18,553.60
713.60
Note 1:	For member of a couple and partnered see section 5E, and for illness separated couple and respite care couple see subsections 5R(5) and (6).
Note 2:	The maximum basic rates are adjusted 6-monthly in line with service pensions (see section 59LB).
Module BA—Pension supplement
Pension supplement
SCH6-BA1	A pension supplement amount is to be added to the person’s maximum basic rate.
Residents in Australia etc.
SCH6-BA2	If the person is residing in Australia and:
(a)	is in Australia; or
(b)	is temporarily absent from Australia and has been so for a continuous period not exceeding 6 weeks;
the person’s pension supplement amount is:
(c)	if an election by the person under subsection 60A(1) is in force—the amount worked out under point SCH6-BA4; and
(d)	otherwise—the amount worked out under point SCH6-BA3.
Note:	Section 60A applies to a person receiving a service pension or income support supplement (but does not apply to a person receiving a veteran payment).
Residents in Australia etc.—no election in force
SCH6-BA3	The person’s pension supplement amount is the amount worked out by:
(a)	applying the applicable percentage in the following table to the combined couple rate of pension supplement; and
(b)	if:
(i)	the person is not partnered; and
(ii)	the amount resulting from paragraph (a) is not a multiple of $2.60;
rounding the amount up or down to the nearest multiple of $2.60 (rounding up if the amount is not a multiple of $2.60 but is a multiple of $1.30).
Item
Person’s family situation
Use this %
1
Not member of couple
66.33%
2
Partnered
50%
3
Member of illness separated couple
66.33%
4
Member of respite care couple
66.33%
Note:	For combined couple rate of pension supplement, see subsection 5GA(1).
Residents in Australia etc.—election in force
SCH6-BA4	The person’s pension supplement amount is the amount worked out as follows:
(a)	work out the amount for the person under point SCH6-BA3 as if the election were not in force;
(b)	from that amount, subtract the person’s minimum pension supplement amount.
Persons absent from Australia for more than 6 weeks
SCH6-BA5	If the person is not covered by point SCH6-BA2, the person’s pension supplement amount is the person’s pension supplement basic amount.
Module BB—Energy supplement
When energy supplement is to be added
SCH6-BB1	An energy supplement is to be added to the person’s maximum basic rate (of service pension) if the person is residing in Australia and:
(a)	is in Australia; or
(b)	is temporarily absent from Australia and has been so for a continuous period not exceeding 6 weeks.
Note:	Section 65A may affect the addition of the energy supplement.
SCH6-BB2	However, this Module does not apply if quarterly energy supplement for service pension is payable to the person.
Amount of energy supplement
SCH6-BB3	The person’s energy supplement is the amount worked out using the following table:
Energy supplement
Item
Person’s family situation
Amount of energy supplement
1
Not a member of a couple
$366.60
2
Partnered
$275.60
3
Member of an illness separated couple
$366.60
4
Member of a respite care couple
$366.60
Note:	For member of a couple, partnered, illness separated couple and respite care couple see subsections 5E(1) and (5) and 5R(5) and (6) respectively.
Module C—Rent assistance
Application
SCH6-C1	Points SCH6-C2 to SCH6-C11 apply to a person who is in receipt of a service pension, income support supplement or a veteran payment.
Rent assistance
SCH6-C2	Rent assistance is an amount that may be added to the maximum basic rate or ceiling rate to help cover the cost of rent. A person who is eligible for rent assistance under point SCH6-C3 can have added to his or her maximum basic rate or ceiling rate the amount applying to that person under Table C-2.
Eligibility for rent assistance
SCH6-C3(1)	Rent assistance is to be added to a person’s maximum basic rate or ceiling rate if:
(a)	the person is not an aged care resident; and
(b)	the person is not an ineligible property owner; and
(c)	the person pays, or is liable to pay, rent (other than Government rent); and
(d)	the rent is payable at a rate of more than the rent threshold rate; and
(e)	either:
(i)	the person is in Australia; or
(ii)	the person is temporarily absent from Australia and the period in respect of which the rent assistance is sought is not a period after the first 26 weeks of the absence; and
(f)	in a case where the person is entitled to be paid a family tax benefit—the person satisfies either point SCH6-C3A or SCH6-C3B.
Note 1:	For aged care resident see subsection 5NC(5).
Note 2:	For rent, Government rent and ineligible property owner see section 5N.
Note 3:	For rent threshold rate see point SCH6-C6.
Note 4:	For illness separated couple and respite care couple see subsections 5R(5) and (6).
(2)	If:
(a)	the person is temporarily absent from Australia; and
(b)	the Commission is satisfied that the person is unable to return to Australia before the end of the 26 weeks mentioned in subparagraph (1)(e)(ii) because of an event referred to in subpoint (3);
the Commission may, in relation to the person, determine that a reference to 26 weeks in subparagraph (1)(e)(ii) is taken to be a reference to another number of weeks.
(3)	The events are the following:
(a)	a serious accident involving the person or a family member of the person;
(b)	a serious illness of the person or a family member of the person;
(c)	the hospitalisation of the person or a family member of the person;
(d)	the death of a family member of the person;
(e)	the person’s involvement in custody proceedings in the country in which the person is located;
(f)	a legal requirement for the person to remain outside Australia in connection with criminal proceedings (other than criminal proceedings in respect of a crime alleged to have been committed by the person);
(g)	robbery or serious crime committed against the person or a family member of the person;
(h)	a natural disaster in the country in which the person is located;
(i)	a public health crisis affecting Australia or the country in which the person is located or both;
(j)	political or social unrest in the country in which the person is located;
(k)	industrial action in the country in which the person is located;
(l)	a war in the country in which the person is located.
(4)	The Commission must not make a determination under subpoint (2) unless:
(a)	the event occurred or began during the period of absence; and
(b)	if the event is political or social unrest, industrial action or war—the person is not willingly involved in, or willingly participating in, the event.
(5)	If the Commission determines another number (the new number) of weeks under subpoint (2), then, immediately after that determination is made, a reference to a number of weeks in subparagraph (1)(e)(ii), and each reference to a number of weeks in subpoint (2), is taken to be a reference to that new number.
SCH6-C3A	A person satisfies this point if:
(a)	the person is not a member of a couple, or is a member of an illness separated couple or a respite care couple, and is entitled to be paid a family tax benefit; and
(b)	either:
(i)	the person’s maximum Part A rate of family tax benefit does not include rent assistance; or
(ii)	the person’s maximum Part A rate of family tax benefit includes rent assistance and clause 38K of Schedule 1 to the Family Assistance Act applies to reduce the person’s Part A rate of family tax benefit.
SCH6-C3B	A person satisfies this point if:
(a)	the person is a member of a couple (other than an illness separated couple or a respite care couple) and the person, or the person’s partner, is entitled to be paid family tax benefit; and
(b)	either:
(i)	the person’s, or the person’s partner’s, maximum Part A rate of family tax benefit does not include rent assistance; or
(ii)	the person’s, or the person’s partner’s, maximum Part A rate of family tax benefit includes rent assistance and clause 38J or 38K of Schedule 1 to the Family Assistance Act applies to reduce the person’s, or the person’s partner’s, Part A rate of family tax benefit.
No rent assistance if partner getting incentive allowance under the Social Security Act
SCH6-C4		If a person is a member of a couple and the person’s partner is living with the person in their home, an additional amount is not to be added to the person’s maximum basic rate or ceiling rate under point SCH6-C3 if an amount by way of incentive allowance is being added to the maximum basic rate or ceiling rate of the person’s partner.
Note:	For incentive allowance see subsection 5Q(1); the provisions of the Social Security Act relating to incentive allowance were repealed with effect from 12 November 1991 but the allowance continues to be paid to certain existing recipients under clause 36 of Schedule 1A to that Act.
Partner with rent increased pension
SCH6-C5	A person has a partner with a rent increased pension, for the purposes of this Module, if:
(a)	the partner is living with the person in their home; and
(b)	the partner is receiving a service pension, income support supplement, a veteran payment or a social security pension; and
(c)	either of the following applies:
(i)	the partner is receiving a service pension, income support supplement, a veteran payment or a social security pension the rate of which is increased to take account of rent paid or payable by the partner;
(ii)	the partner is receiving a social security pension and is entitled to be paid family tax benefit at a rate higher than the base rate under clause 4 of Schedule 1 to the Family Assistance Act and which includes an amount to take account of rent paid or payable by the partner.
Note:	For the treatment of rent paid by a member of a couple see points SCH6-C10 and SCH6-C11.
Rent threshold rate
SCH6-C6	A person’s rent threshold rate depends on the person’s family situation. Work out which family situation in Table C-1 applies to the person. The rent threshold rate is the corresponding amount in column 3.
Table C-1—Rent threshold rates
Column 1
Item
Column 2
Person’s family situation
Column 3
Rate per year
$
Column 4
Rate per fortnight
$
1
Not a member of a couple
3,952.00
152.00
A member of an illness separated couple
A member of a respite care couple
Partnered—partner without a rent increased pension
2
Partnered—partner with a rent increased pension
Half the rent threshold (combined couples)
Half the rent threshold (combined couples)
Note 1:	For member of a couple and partnered see section 5E.
Note 2:	For partner with a rent increased pension see point C5.
Note 2A:	For rent threshold (combined couples) see point C6A.
Note 3:	The column 3 amounts are indexed 6 monthly in line with CPI increases (see sections 59B to 59E).
Rent threshold (combined couples)
SCH6-C6A	For the purposes of this Module, the rent threshold (combined couples) is $6,401.20 per year and $246.20 per fortnight.
Note:	This rate is indexed 6 monthly in line with CPI increases (see sections 59B to 59E).
Factors affecting rate of rent assistance
SCH6-C7	The rate of rent assistance depends on:
(a)	the annual rent paid or payable by the person; and
(b)	whether or not the person has a partner with a rent increased pension.
Rate of rent assistance
SCH6-C8(1)	The rate of rent assistance is whichever is the lesser of rate A and rate B applicable to the person in accordance with Table C-2.
Table C-2—Rate of rent assistance
Column 1
Item
Column 2
Person’s family situation
Column 3
Rate A
$
Column 4
Rate B
$
1
Not a member of a couple
5,600.40
A member of an illness separated couple
A member of a respite care couple
Partnered—partner without a rent increased pension
2
Partnered—partner with a rent increased pension
Half the rent assistance maximum rate (combined couples)
Note 1:	For member of a couple and partnered see section 5E.
Note 2:	For partner with a rent increased pension see point C5.
Note 2A:	For rent assistance maximum rate (combined couples) see point C8A.
Note 3:	The column 4 amounts are indexed 6 monthly in line with CPI increases (see sections 59B to 59E).
(2)	In Table C-2:
AR means annual rent as provided by points SCH6-C9 to SCH6-C11.
RTR means the rent threshold rate applicable under column 3 of Table C-1 in point SCH6-C6.
Rent assistance maximum rate (combined couples)
SCH6-C8A	For the purposes of this Module, the rent assistance maximum rate (combined couples) is $5,278.00 per year.
Note:	This rate is indexed 6 monthly in line with CPI increases (see sections 59B to 59E).
Annual rent
SCH6-C9	Annual rent is the annual rent paid or payable by the person whose service pension rate, income support supplement rate or veteran payment rate is being calculated.
Rent paid by a member of a couple
SCH6-C10	If a person is a member of a couple and the person’s partner is living with the person in their home, any rent that the person’s partner pays or is liable to pay in respect of the home is to be treated as paid or payable by the person.
Note:	For member of a couple see section 5E.
Rent paid by a member of an illness separated or respite care couple
SCH6-C11	If a person is a member of an illness separated couple or a respite care couple, any rent that the person’s partner pays or is liable to pay in respect of the premises occupied by the person is to be treated as paid or payable by the person.
Note:	For illness separated couple and respite care couple see subsections 5R(5) and (6).
Module E—Ordinary/adjusted income test
Definition
SCH6-E1	In this Module:
ordinary/adjusted income means:
(a)	for the purpose of the calculation of the rate of service pension or veteran payment—ordinary income; or
(b)	for the purpose of the calculation of the rate of income support supplement—adjusted income.
Note:	For ordinary income and adjusted income see section 5H.
Effect of income on maximum payment rate
SCH6-E2	This is how to work out the effect of a person’s ordinary/adjusted income on the person’s maximum payment rate:
Method statement
Step 1.	Work out the annual rate of the person’s ordinary/adjusted income.
Note:	For the treatment of the ordinary/adjusted income of members of a couple see point SCH6-E3.
Step 2.	Work out the person’s ordinary/adjusted income free area (see point SCH6-E6 below).
Note:	A person’s ordinary/adjusted income free area is the maximum amount of ordinary/adjusted income the person can have without affecting the person’s rate of service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment.
Step 3.	Work out whether the person’s ordinary/adjusted income exceeds the person’s ordinary/adjusted income free area.
Step 4.	If the person’s ordinary/adjusted income does not exceed the person’s ordinary/adjusted income free area, the person’s ordinary/adjusted income excess is nil.
Step 5.	If the person’s ordinary/adjusted income exceeds the person’s ordinary/adjusted income free area, the person’s ordinary/adjusted income excess is the person’s ordinary/adjusted income less the person’s ordinary/adjusted income free area.
Step 6.	Use the person’s ordinary/adjusted income excess to work out the person’s reduction for ordinary/adjusted income using point SCH6-E11 below.
Note 1:	See the Method statements in point SCH6-A1 for the significance of the person’s reduction for ordinary/adjusted income.
Note 2:	The application of the ordinary/adjusted income test is affected by provisions about the following:
(a)	the general concept of ordinary income (sections 46 and 46A);
(aa)	the work bonus (section 46AA);
(b)	business income (sections 46B and 46C);
(c)	income from financial assets (including income streams (short term) and certain income streams (long term)) (Division 3 of Part IIIB);
(d)	income from income streams not covered by Division 3 of Part IIIB (Division 4 of Part IIIB);
(e)	disposal of income (sections 48-48E).
Ordinary/adjusted incomes of members of couples
SCH6-E3	If a person is a member of a couple, add the annual rates of the couple’s ordinary/adjusted incomes and divide by 2 to work out the amount of the person’s ordinary/adjusted income for the purposes of this Module. However, in making this calculation disregard any amount that is taken (whether for the purposes of this Act or of the Social Security Act) to be ordinary income of either partner because of section 59TA of this Act or section 1174 of the Social Security Act.
Additional ordinary income because of excess compensation payments
SCH6-E3A	Add to the amount derived for a person under point SCH6-E3 any amount that is taken (whether for the purposes of this Act or of the Social Security Act) to be ordinary income of the person because of section 59TA of this Act or section 1174 of the Social Security Act.
Payment of arrears of periodic compensation payments
SCH6-E4	If:
(a)	at the time of an event that gives rise to an entitlement of a person to compensation, the person is receiving a compensation affected pension; and
(b)	in relation to the entitlement, the person receives a payment (an arrears payment) of arrears of periodic compensation;
the person is taken to receive on each day in the periodic payments period an amount calculated by dividing the amount of the arrears payment by the number of days in the periodic payments period.
Note:	For event that gives rise to an entitlement to compensation, compensation affected pension and periodic payments period see section 5NB.
Ordinary/adjusted income free area
SCH6-E5	A person’s ordinary/adjusted income free area is the amount of ordinary/adjusted income the person can have without any deduction being made from the person’s maximum payment rate.
How to calculate a person’s ordinary/adjusted income free area
SCH6-E6	A person’s ordinary/adjusted income free area is worked out using Table E-1. Work out which family situation in Table E-1 applies to the person. The ordinary/adjusted income free area is the corresponding amount in column 3.
Table E-1—Ordinary/adjusted income free area
Column 1
Item
Column 2
Category of person
Column 3
Basic income free area per year
$
Column 4
Basic income free area per fortnight
$
1.
Not member of a couple
2,548
98
2.
Partnered (partner getting neither pension nor benefit)
Partnered (partner getting benefit)
2,236
86
3.
Partnered (partner getting pension)
2,236
86
Note 1:	For member of a couple, partnered (partner getting neither pension nor benefit), partnered (partner getting benefit) and partnered (partner getting pension) see section 5E.
Note 3:	Items 2 and 3 of Table E-1 apply to members of illness separated and respite care couples.
Note 4:	The basic free area is indexed annually in line with CPI increases (see sections 59B to 59E).
Reduction for ordinary/adjusted income in excess of ordinary/adjusted income free area
SCH6-E11 (1)	A person’s reduction for ordinary/adjusted income is:
(2)	In this point:
ordinary/adjusted income excess, in relation to a person, means the person’s ordinary/adjusted income less the person’s ordinary/adjusted income free area.
Module F—Assets test
Effect of assets on maximum payment rate
SCH6-F1	This is how to work out the effect of a person’s assets on the person’s maximum payment rate:
Method statement
Step 1.	Work out the value of the person’s assets.
Note 1:	For the treatment of the assets of members of a couple see point SCH6-F2.
Note 2:	For the assets that are to be disregarded in valuing a person’s assets see section 52.
Note 3:	For the valuation of an asset that is subject to a charge or encumbrance see sections 52C and 52CA.
Step 2.	Work out the person’s assets value limit (see point SCH6-F3 below).
Note:	A person’s assets value limit is the maximum value of assets the person can have without affecting the person’s rate of service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment.
Step 3.	Work out whether the value of the person’s assets exceeds the person’s assets value limit.
Step 4.	If the value of the person’s assets does not exceed the person’s assets value limit, the person’s assets excess is nil.
Step 5.	If the value of the person’s assets exceeds the person’s assets value limit, the person’s assets excess is the value of the person’s assets less the person’s assets value limit.
Step 6.	Use the person’s assets excess to work out the person’s reduction for assets using point SCH6-F4 below.
Note 1:	See the Method statements in point SCH6-A1 for the significance of the person’s reduction for assets.
Note 2:	The application of the assets test is affected by provisions about the following:
(a)	disposal of assets (sections 52E – 52JE);
(b)	special residences (sections 52KA – 52X);
(c)	financial hardship (sections 52Y and 52Z);
(d)	the pensions loans scheme (sections 52ZAAA – 52ZM.
Value of assets of members of couples
SCH6-F2	For the purposes of this Module:
(a)	the value of the assets of a member of a couple is taken to be 50% of the sum of:
(i)	the value of the person’s assets; and
(ii)	the value of the person’s partner’s assets; and
(b)	the value of the assets of a particular kind of a member of a couple is taken to be 50% of the sum of:
(i)	the value of the person’s assets of that kind; and
(ii)	the value of the person’s partner’s assets of that kind.
Assets value limit
SCH6-F3	A person’s assets value limit is worked out using Table F-1. Work out the person’s family situation and property ownership situation. The assets value limit is the corresponding amount in column 3.
Table F-1—Assets value limit
Column 1
Column 2
Column 3 Assets value limit
Item
Person’s family situation
Column 3A
Either person or partner property owner
$
Column 3B
Neither person nor partner property owner
$
1.
Not member of a couple
250,000
450,000
2.
Partnered
187,500
287,500
Note 1:	For member of a couple and partnered see section 5E.
Note 2:	For property owner see section 5L.
Note 3:	Item 2 applies to members of illness separated and respite care couples.
Note 4:	The assets value limit in column 3B of item 1 is adjusted annually under section 59H. The other assets value limits are indexed annually in line with CPI increases (see sections 59B to 59E).
Reduction for assets in excess of assets value limit
SCH6-F4(1)	A person’s reduction for assets is worked out by using the formula:
where:
assets excess means the value of the person’s assets less the person’s assets value limit.
(2)	In calculating a person’s assets excess under subpoint (1), disregard any part of the excess that is not a multiple of $250.
Module G—Remote area allowance
Remote area allowance
SCH6-G1	An amount by way of remote area allowance is to be included in a person’s rate of service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment if:
(a)	one of the following subparagraphs applies:
(i)	the person’s rate of service pension, income support supplement or veteran payment apart from this point is greater than nil; or
(ii)	in the case of service pension or income support supplement—the person’s rate of service pension or income support supplement apart from this point is nil merely because an advance pharmaceutical allowance has been paid to the person under Part 2.23 of the Social Security Act; or
(iii)	in the case of service pension or income support supplement—the person’s rate of service pension or income support supplement apart from this point is nil merely because of the operation of Part IVA; and
(b)	the person’s usual place of residence is situated in the remote area; and
(c)	the person is physically present in the remote area.
Note:	For remote area and physically present in the remote area see section 5Q.
Rate of remote area allowance
SCH6-G2	The rate of remote area allowance payable to a person is worked out using Table G. Work out which family situation in the table applies to the person. The rate of remote area allowance is the corresponding amount in column 3 plus an additional corresponding amount in column 5 for each FTB child, and each regular care child, of the person.
Table G—Remote area allowance
Column 1
Item
Column 2
Person’s family situation
Column 3
Basic allowance per year
$
Column 4
Basic allowance per fortnight
$
Column 5
Additional allowance per year
$
Column 6
Additional allowance per fortnight
$
1.
Not member of a couple
473.20
18.20
189.80
7.30
A member of an illness separated couple
A member of a respite care couple
Partnered—partner not receiving remote area allowance
2.
Partnered (partner receiving remote area allowance)
405.60
15.60
189.80
7.30
Note 1:	For FTB child and regular care child see subsection 5F(1).
Note 2:	For member of a couple and partnered see section 5E.
Note 3:	For illness separated couple and respite care couple see subsections 5R(5) and (5A).
Eligibility of FTB children and regular care children who are outside Australia
SCH6-G3(1)	If an FTB child, or a regular care child, leaves Australia otherwise than temporarily, additional allowance is not payable for the child on or after the day on which he or she left Australia.
(2)	If an FTB child, or a regular care child, is temporarily absent from Australia for more than 8 weeks, additional allowance is not payable for the child after the first 8 weeks of the absence.
Special rule where partner has an FTB or regular care child but is not receiving a pension, benefit or allowance
SCH6-G4	If:
(a)	a person who is a member of a couple is qualified for an amount by way of remote area allowance; and
(b)	the person’s partner is not receiving a service pension, income support supplement, a veteran payment, a social security pension, or a social security benefit; and
(c)	the person’s partner has an FTB child or a regular care child;
the child is taken, for the purposes of this Module, to be an FTB child, or a regular care child, (as the case requires) of the person.
Special rule where partner has an FTB or regular care child but is not receiving additional allowance for the child
SCH6-G5	If:
(a)	a person who is a member of a couple is qualified for an amount by way of remote area allowance; and
(b)	the person’s partner has an FTB child or a regular care child; and
(c)	the person’s partner is not receiving additional allowance for the child;
the child is taken, for the purposes of this Module, to be an FTB child, or a regular care child, (as the case requires) of the person.
Special rule dealing with the death of an FTB or regular care child
SCH6-G6	If an FTB child, or a regular care child, of a person dies, this Module has effect, for a period of 14 weeks after the death of the child, as if the child had not died.
Note:	This point does not prevent this Module having the effect it would have had if the child would otherwise have ceased to be an FTB child, or a regular care child, during that 14 weeks.
Endnotes
Endnote 1—About the endnotes
The endnotes provide information about this compilation and the compiled law.
The following endnotes are included in every compilation:
Endnote 1—About the endnotes
Endnote 2—Abbreviation key
Endnote 3—Legislation history
Endnote 4—Amendment history
Abbreviation key—Endnote 2
The abbreviation key sets out abbreviations that may be used in the endnotes.
Legislation history and amendment history—Endnotes 3 and 4
Amending laws are annotated in the legislation history and amendment history.
The legislation history in endnote 3 provides information about each law that has amended (or will amend) the compiled law. The information includes commencement details for amending laws and details of any application, saving or transitional provisions that are not included in this compilation.
The amendment history in endnote 4 provides information about amendments at the provision (generally section or equivalent) level. It also includes information about any provision of the compiled law that has been repealed in accordance with a provision of the law.
Editorial changes
The Legislation Act 2003 authorises First Parliamentary Counsel to make editorial and presentational changes to a compiled law in preparing a compilation of the law for registration. The changes must not change the effect of the law. Editorial changes take effect from the compilation registration date.
If the compilation includes editorial changes, the endnotes include a brief outline of the changes in general terms. Full details of any changes can be obtained from the Office of Parliamentary Counsel.
Misdescribed amendments
A misdescribed amendment is an amendment that does not accurately describe how an amendment is to be made. If, despite the misdescription, the amendment can be given effect as intended, then the misdescribed amendment can be incorporated through an editorial change made under section 15V of the Legislation Act 2003.
If a misdescribed amendment cannot be given effect as intended, the amendment is not incorporated and “(md not incorp)” is added to the amendment history.
Endnote 2—Abbreviation key
ad = added or inserted
orig = original
am = amended
p = page(s)
amdt = amendment
para = paragraph(s)/subparagraph(s)
C[x] = Compilation No. x
/sub-subparagraph(s)
ch = Chapter(s)
pres = present
cl = clause(s)
prev = previous
cont. = continued
(prev…) = previously
def = definition(s)
pt = Part(s)
Dict = Dictionary
r = regulation(s)/Court rule(s)
disallowed = disallowed by Parliament
reloc = relocated
div = Division(s)
renum = renumbered
ed = editorial change
rep = repealed
exp = expires/expired or ceases/ceased to have
rs = repealed and substituted
effect
s = section(s)/subsection(s)
gaz = gazette
/rule(s)/subrule(s)/order(s)/suborder(s)
LA = Legislation Act 2003
sch = Schedule(s)
LIA = Legislative Instruments Act 2003
SLI = Select Legislative Instrument
(md) = misdescribed amendment can be given
SR = Statutory Rules
effect
sub ch = Sub-Chapter(s)
(md not incorp) = misdescribed amendment
sub div = Subdivision(s)
cannot be given effect
sub pt = Subpart(s)
mod = modified/modification
underlining = whole or part not
No. = Number(s)
commenced or to be commenced
Ord = Ordinance
Endnote 3—Legislation history
Act
Number and year
Assent
Commencement
Application, saving and transitional provisions
Veterans’ Entitlements Act 1986
27, 1986
19 May 1986
22 May 1986 (s 2 and gaz 1986, No S225)
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1986
106, 1986
27 Oct 1986
s 61, 62, 63(1), 64–66, 67(1), 68(1), 69(1), (2), 71, 72(1), 73(2), 74–76, 80(2), 83, 84(1), 87, 91(2), 92, 93(1), 96(1), (3) and 97: 27 Oct 1986 (s 2(1)) s 63(2), 69(3) and 83: 1 Jan 1987 (s 2(13)) s 67(2), 68(2), 78, 79, 89, 90 and 93(2): 18 Dec 1986 (s 2(12)) s 70, 80(1), 81, 82, 85 and 91(1): 22 May 1986 (s 2(2)) s 72(2): 6 Nov 1986 (s 2(9)) subsection 72(3): repealed before commencing (s 2(18)) s 73(1): 24 June 1986 (s 2(4)) s 77 and 84(2): 12 June 1987 (s 2(16)) s 86, 88 and 94: 1 Nov 1986 (s 2(8)) s 95(1) and 103: 31 Oct 1986 (s 2(7)) s 95(2): 30 Apr 1987 (s 2(14))
s 69(2), 87(2), (3) and 97
s 96(2): 22 May 1986 (s 2(3))
as amended by
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1987
78, 1987
5 June 1987
s 65: 1 Jan 1988 subsection 72(3) repealed before commencing (s 2(7))
—
Social Security and Veterans’ Entitlements Amendment Act (No. 2) 1987
130, 1987
16 Dec 1987
s 5(1): 16 Dec 1987 (s 2)
—
Disability Services (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 1986
130, 1986
9 Dec 1986
s 43, 44: 5 June 1987 (s 2(2))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1987
78, 1987
5 June 1987
s 4–6, 9(2), 11, 12, 22(1), 23, 30–32, 37(1), 41–44, 46, 47 and 49(1): 22 May 1986 (s 2(2)) s 8, 9(1), 10(1), 13(1), 15, 18, 20(2), 22(1), 23, 26–48, 81, Sch 1 and Sch 2: 5 June 1987 (s 2(1)) s 10(2), 13(2), 14, 17, 19, 20(1), 24, 25, 49(2), 82 and 83: 2 July 1987 (s 2(6)) s 16: 27 Oct 1987 (s 2(4)) s 22(2): 1 Jan 1987 (s 2(5))
s 38(2) and 81–83
as amended by
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 4) 1989
164, 1989
19 Dec 1989
s 86: 19 Dec 1989 (s 2)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget and Compensation Measures) Act 1997
157, 1997
3 Nov 1997
Sch 8 (Pt 1): 5 June 1987 (s 2(9))
—
Social Security and Veterans’ Entitlements Amendment Act 1987
88, 1987
5 June 1987
s 3(6), (9), (10) and 30: 5 June 1987 (s 2(1)) s 31–36, 38 and 39: 1 Oct 1987 (s 2(5)) s 37: 1 July 1987 (s 2(3)) s 40–43: 1 Sept 1987 (s 2(4))
s 3(6), (9) and (10)
Social Security and Veterans’ Entitlements Amendment Act (No. 2) 1987
130, 1987
16 Dec 1987
s 3(7)–(12), 4(11), (12), 60, 62, 68(2), 69, 70, 76(1), 77–79, 83, 86, 88–96, 97(1) and 98: 16 Dec 1987 (s 2) s 61: 27 Oct 1986 (s 2) s 63–65, 67 and 68(1): 22 May 1986 (s 2) s 66, 73(1), 84, 85 and 87: 17 Dec 1987 (s 2) s 71(1): 1 Oct 1987 (s 2) s 71(2), 73(2), 80 and 82: 1 Jan 1988 (s 2) s 72: 13 Dec 1987 (s 2) s 74: 4 Nov 1987 (s 2)
s 3(7)–(12) and 4(11), (12)
s 75 and 76(2): 13 Nov 1987 (s 2) s 81: 12 June 1987 (s 2) s 97(2): 1 Sept 1987 (s 2)
as amended by
Social Security Legislation Amendment Act 1988
133, 1988
22 Dec 1988
Sch 4: 16 Dec 1987 (s 2(5))
—
Social Security and Veterans’ Entitlements (Maintenance Income Test) Amendment Act 1988
13, 1988
28 Apr 1988
s 15–21: 17 June 1988 (s 2 and gaz 1988, No S165)
s 21
as amended by
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1989
83, 1989
27 June 1989
s 31(a), (c) and (e): 17 June 1988 (s 2) s 31(b), (d): 27 June 1989 (s 2)
—
Social Security Legislation Amendment Act 1990
6, 1991
8 Jan 1991
s 85, 86: 8 Jan 1991 (s 2)
s 85
Veterans’ Entitlements (Rewrite) Transition Act 1991
73, 1991
25 June 1991
Sch 4: 1 July 1991 (s 2(1))
—
Student Assistance Legislation Amendment Act 1988
35, 1988
22 May 1988
s 14: 22 May 1988 (s 2)
s 14(2)
Commonwealth Employees’ Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988
75, 1988
24 June 1988
Sch: 1 Dec 1988 (s 2(2) and gaz 1988, No S196)
—
Statutory Instruments (Tabling and Disallowance) Legislation Amendment Act 1988
99, 1988
2 Dec 1988
Sch: 2 Dec 1988 (s 2)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1988
134, 1988
22 Dec 1988
s 3(1), (2), (5), (7), 4–13, 14(b), 15(b), 18, 19, 21, 22, 26–33 and 35: 22 Dec 1988 (s 2) s 3(3): 15 Dec 1988 (s 2) s 3(4): 1 Jan 1989 (s 2) s 3(6): 1 Sept 1987 (s 2) s. 14(a) and 15(a): 22 May 1986 (s 2) s 16, 20(a), (b), 23–25: 15 Dec 1988 (s 2) s 17: 13 Dec 1987 (s 2) s 20(c), (d): 1 Jan 1989 (s 2) s 34: 1 Sept 1987 (s 2) s 36: 16 Dec 1987 (s 2)
s 3(1)–(7)
as amended by
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 4) 1989
164, 1989
19 Dec 1988
s 88(a), (b): 22 Dec 1988 (s 2)
—
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1988
135, 1988
22 Dec 1988
s 3(6): 1 Dec 1988 (s 2) s 3(7), 25–28, 29(1), 30 and 31: 12 June 1989 (s 2) s 3(8) and 29(2): 14 June 1990 (s 2) s 22–24: 1 Dec 1988 (s 2)
s 3(6)–(8), 30 and 31
as amended by
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 1989
84, 1989
27 June 1989
s 42: 22 Dec 1988 (s 2)
—
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 4) 1989
164, 1989
19 Dec 1989
Sch 1: 12 Dec 1989 (s 2)
—
Veterans’ Entitlements (Rewrite) Transition Act 1991
73, 1991
25 June 1991
Sch 4: 1 July 1991 (s 2(1))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (1995-96 Budget Measures) Act (No. 2) 1995
146, 1995
12 Dec 1995
Sch 10 (items 1, 2): 12 June 1989 (s 2(2)) Sch 10 (items 3, 4): 1 July 1991 (s 2(3)) Sch 10 (items 5–10): 20 Mar 1995 (s 2(5)) Sch 10 (item 11): 19 Mar 1996 (s 2(7)(b))
—
Migration Legislation Amendment Act 1989
59, 1989
19 June 1989
Sch 6: 19 Dec 1990 (s 2(5))
—
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1989
83, 1989
27 June 1989
s 3(1) and 27: 1 July 1989 (s 2) s 26: 27 June 1989 (s 2) s 28: 13 June 1989 (s 2) s 29: 1 Jan 1990 (s 2)
s 3(1)
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 1989
84, 1989
27 June 1989
s 3(1), 47(a) and 49: 27 June 1989 (s 2) s 3(2), 46 and 47(c): 1 Jan 1989 (s 2) s 3(8), 47(b) and 48: 12 June 1989 (s 2)
s 3(1), (2) and (8)
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1989
93, 1989
27 June 1989
s 3(1), 9 and 14: 22 Dec 1988 (s 2) s 3(2), 8, 10 and 12: 27 June 1989 (s 2) s 11(a), (b) and 15: 18 Feb 1989 (s 2) s 11(c): 1 Jan 1990 (s 2) s 13: 22 May 1986 (s 2)
s 3
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 3) 1989
163, 1989
19 Dec 1989
s 53, 54: 1 Jan 1990 (s 2)
—
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 4) 1989
164, 1989
19 Dec 1989
s 3(26), (31), (39), (41), 89, 90(a), 92(j), (k), (m), 94, 99(f), 100(b), 112, 121, 122, 123(g), 124 and 126(a): 19 Dec 1989 (s 2) s 3(27), 91, 92(d), 110, 111(a), (b) and 116: 16 Nov 1989 (s 2) s 3(28), 92(b), (f), (h), (r), (u), 95, 102(c) and 108: 1 Feb 1990 (s 2) s 3(29), (32), (33), (42), 4(3)–(5), 92(c), (o)–(q), 93, 99(b), (c), (e), 104, 105, 107, 109, 113–115, 117–119, 125 and 126(b): 1 Jan 1990 (s 2) s 3(30), (35), (38), 92(a), (e), (g), (n), (t), (w), 97, 98(a), (b), (d), 99(a), (d), 100(a), 102(b), 106(a) and 111(c): 1 Nov 1989 (s 2) s 3(34), (36), 96, 101 and 102(a), (d), (e): 19 Apr 1990 (s 2) s 3(37), 103 and 106(c): 13 June 1989 (s 2) s 3(40), 90(b), (c) and 120: 28 Dec 1989 (s 2) s 98(c): 1 Apr 1990 (s 2) s 106(b) and 123(a), (b), (e), (f): 13 Dec 1989 (s 2)
s 3(26)–(42) and 4(3)–(5)
s 123(c) and (d): 22 May 1986 (s 2) Sch 2: 1 Mar 1989 (s 2)
as amended by
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1990
56, 1990
16 June 1990
s 3(10) and 27: 16 June 1990 (s 2)
s 3(10)
Veterans’ Entitlements (Rewrite) Transition Act 1991
73, 1991
25 June 1991
Sch 4: 1 July 1991 (s 2(1))
—
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1990
56, 1990
16 June 1990
s 25: 4 Dec 1989 (s 2)
—
Social Welfare Legislation (Pharmaceutical Benefits) Amendment Act 1990
84, 1990
30 Oct 1990
s 17: 20 Mar 1991 (s 2) s 18: 1 Nov 1990 (s 2)
—
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 1990
119, 1990
28 Dec 1990
s 19–21, 22(g) and 23: 22 Aug 1990 (s 2(2)) s 22(a)–(f): 1 Mar 1991 (s 2(3)) s 24–29: 28 Dec 1990 (s 2(1))
s 21(2) and 25–29
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1990
2, 1991
8 Jan 1991
s 36, 41(e)–(g), 42(e), 43, 44(a)–(j), (m), 45–50, 52, 57–59, 60(b)–(g), 65, 81, 84–87, 89–91, 92(c) and 93: 8 Jan 1991 (s 2) s 37(a) and 82: 28 Dec 1990 (s 2) s 37(b), (c), 38, 42(a), 61 and 92(a), (b): (s 2) s 37(d) and 42(b), (d): 18 Feb 1989 (s 2) s 37(e), 42(c) and 92(d): 2 Aug 1990 (s 2) s 37(f) and 80: 28 Dec 1989 (s 2) s 39, 60(a), 62 and 67: 22 Dec 1988 (s 2) s 40, 63, 64 and 66: 20 Sept 1990 (s 2) s 41(a), (c) and 53: 22 Aug 1990 (s 2) s 41(b), (d) and 54: 1 Mar 1991 (s 2) s 44(k): 19 Dec 1989 (s 2) s 51: 1 Oct 1990 (s 2) s 55 and 88: 20 Mar 1991 (s 2) s 56 and 83: 1 Jan 1991 (s 2) s 68–79: 1 Nov 1990 (s 2)
s 3(2)–(8), 54(2) and 93
as amended by
Veterans’ Entitlements (Rewrite) Transition Act 1991
73, 1991
25 June 1991
Sch 4: 1 July 1991 (s 2(1))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment and Repeal Act 1995
118, 1995
17 Oct 1995
Sch 2: 22 May 1986 (s 2(15))
—
Statute Law Revision Act 1996
43, 1996
25 Oct 1996
Sch 3 (item 128): 8 Jan 1991 (s 2(3))
—
Veterans’ Entitlements Amendment Act 1991
72, 1991
25 June 1991
1 July 1991 (s 2)
—
Veterans’ Entitlements (Rewrite) Transition Act 1991
73, 1991
25 June 1991
s 1–22, Sch 1–3 and Sch 5: 1 July 1991 (s 2(1), (2))
s 3–17
as amended by
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1991
74, 1991
25 June 1991
Sch 2 (Pt 2): 1 July 1991 (s 2(3))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1992
70, 1992
26 June 1992
s 86: 1 July 1991 (s 2(8)(b))
—
Veterans’ Affairs (1994-95 Budget Measures) Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 1994
164, 1994
16 Dec 1994
Sch 4 (item 8): 20 Mar 1995 (s 2(3))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment and Repeal Act 1995
118, 1995
17 Oct 1995
Sch 3: 1 July 1991 (s 2(16))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget and Compensation Measures) Act 1997
157, 1997
3 Nov 1997
Sch 5 (item 8): 1 Dec 1997 (s 2(8))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1991
74, 1991
25 June 1991
s 3(1) and 7–12, Sch 2 (Pt 2) and Sch 3 (Pt 2): 1 July 1991 (s 2(1), (3), (6)) Sch 1 (Pt 2): 22 Jan 1991 (s 2(2)) Sch 3 (Pt 1): 25 June 1991 (s 2(5)) Sch 3 (Pt 3): 12 June 1991 (s 2(7)) Sch 3 (Pt 4): 20 Mar 1991 (s 2(8))
s 3(1) and 7–12
Industrial Relations Legislation Amendment Act 1991
122, 1991
27 June 1991
s 31(2) and Sch: 10 Dec 1991 (s 2(3) and gaz 1991, No S332)
s 31(2)
Social Security Legislation Amendment Act (No. 3) 1991
175, 1991
25 Nov 1991
Sch (Pt 1): 12 Nov 1991 (s 2(3))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 1991
208, 1991
24 Dec 1991
s 10–13, 19(c) and 20: 24 Dec 1991 (s 2) s 14 and 15: 26 Dec 1991 (s 2) s 16: 1 Jan 1992 (s 2) s 17: 1 Jan 1994 (s 2) s 18: 2 Jan 1992 (s 2) s 19(a) and (b): (s 2) s 19(d) and Sch: 23 Feb 1991 (s 2)
s 20
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1992
12, 1992
24 Mar 1992
s 3(3) and Sch 3: 24 Mar 1992 (s 2(1))
s 3(3)
Veterans’ Entitlements (Provision of Treatment) Amendment Act 1992
51, 1992
17 June 1992
s 3–5 and 8: 9 Dec 1992 (s 2(2) and gaz 1992, No GN49) Remainder: 17 June 1992 (s 2(1))
s 7
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1992
70, 1992
26 June 1992
s 20 and 21: 1 July 1992 (s 2(13)(b)) s 22, 26, 27, 29, 34–40, 42–71 and 77–82: 26 June 1992 (s 2(1)(d), (e)) s 23–25, 28 and 30: 8 Jan 1991 (s 2(3)) s 31–33: 20 Oct 1991 (s 2(12)) s 41: 24 July 1991 (s 2(11)) s 72–76: 1 July 1991 (s 2(7), (8)) s 83–85: 22 May 1986 (s 2(9)) Sch (Pt 7): 25 June 1991 (s 2(6))
s 25, 27, 29, 83 and 85
as amended by
Veterans’ Affairs (1994-95 Budget Measures) Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 1994
164, 1994
16 Dec 1994
Sch 4 (items 6, 7): 20 Mar 1995 (s 2(3))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget and Compensation Measures) Act 1997
157, 1997
3 Nov 1997
Sch 5 (item 1): 1 Dec 1997 (s 2(8))
—
Superannuation Legislation (Consequential Amendments and Transitional Provisions) Act 1992
94, 1992
30 June 1992
Sch: 1 July 1990 (s 2(2))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 1992
228, 1992
24 Dec 1992
s 13–16, 84, 98, 99, 101–104 and Sch 1 and Sch 2 (Pt 4): 1 Jan 1993 (s 2(4)(c)–(e), (5)) s 17–25: 4 Feb 1993 (s 2(6)) s 28–74: 1 Apr 1993 (s 2(8)) s 75–80: 1 July 1993 (s 2(9)) s 81–83: 20 Sept 1993 (s 2(10)) s 85–97, 100, 105, 106 and 111: 20 Mar 1993 (s 2(7)) s 107–110 and Sch 2 (Pt 1): 24 Dec 1992 (s 2(1)(c), (d)) Sch 2 (Pt 2) and Sch 2 (Pt 3): 1 July 1991 (s 2(2), (3))
s 3(2)–(4) and 111
as amended by
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment and Repeal Act 1995
118, 1995
17 Oct 1995
Sch 4: 1 July 1993 (s 2(17))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (1995-96 Budget Measures) Act (No. 2) 1995
146, 1995
12 Dec 1995
Sch 11 (items 1, 2): 20 Mar 1993 (s 2(4)) Sch 11 (items 3, 4): 20 Mar 1995 (s 2(5)) Sch 11 (item 5): 19 Mar 1996 (s 2(7)(c))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1993
27, 1993
9 June 1993
s 5–8: 20 Sept 1993 (s 2(2)) s 9: 20 Oct 1991 (s 2(3)) s 10–12: 12 Jan 1992 (s 2(4)) s 13–15: 20 Oct 1992 (s 2(5))
—
Social Security Legislation Amendment Act 1993
36, 1993
20 Sept 1993
s 82: 20 Sept 1993 (s 2(24))
—
Social Security (Budget and Other Measures) Legislation Amendment Act 1993
121, 1993
24 Dec 1993
Sch 1 (item 53) and Sch 2 (items 21–26): 20 Mar 1994 (s 2(8)(a), (b))
—
Military Compensation Act 1994
54, 1994
7 Apr 1994
s 13–17: 7 Apr 1994 (s 2)
s 17
as amended by
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment and Repeal Act 1995
118, 1995
17 Oct 1995
Sch 6 (item 2): 7 Apr 1994 (s 2(19))
—
Migration Legislation Amendment Act 1994
60, 1994
9 Apr 1994
Sch 3 (items 56–58): 1 Sept 1994 (s 2(3))
—
Commonwealth Reciprocal Recovery Legislation Amendment Act 1994
68, 1994
30 May 1994
s 8–11: 1 July 1994 (s 2(2))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1994
78, 1994
21 June 1994
s 3, 18, 20–36, Sch 2, Sch 3 and Sch 4 (items 1–30): 21 June 1994 (s 2(1)) s 4–7 and Sch 1 (items 1–6): 1 July 1994 (s 2(3)) s 9–17: 1 Jan 1994 (s 2(2))
s 3
Veterans’ Affairs (1994-95 Budget Measures) Legislation Amendment Act 1994
98, 1994
30 June 1994
s 3 and 5–11: 30 June 1994 (s 2(1)) s 12–14 and Sch 1: 1 July 1994 (s 2(3)) s 16 and 17: 1 June 1994 (s 2(2)) s 18–27: 1 Jan 1995 (s 2(4)) s 28–37, 39–45(1)–(6), 46, Sch 2 and Sch 3: 20 Mar 1995(s 2(5))
s 3 and 45(1)
as amended by
Veterans’ Affairs (1994-95 Budget Measures) Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 1994
164, 1994
16 Dec 1994
s 56–59: 16 Dec 1994 (s 2(1))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment and Repeal Act 1995
118, 1995
17 Oct 1995
Sch 5 (item 1): 20 Mar 1995 (s 2(18)) Sch 5 (item 2): 17 Oct 1995 (s 2(1))
—
Statute Law Revision Act 1996
43, 1996
25 Oct 1996
Sch 3 (items 131–137): 30 June 1994 (s 2(3))
—
Social Security Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 1994
109, 1994
12 July 1994
s 57(a): 20 Sept 1994 (s 2(6)) s 57(b): 1 July 1994 (s 2(3))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 1994
148, 1994
8 Dec 1994
s 3–8, 10–12: 8 Dec 1994 (s 2(1)) s 9: 20 Mar 1995 (s 2(3)) s 13, 14: 1 Jan 1995 (s 2(2))
—
as amended by
Statute Law Revision Act 1996
43, 1996
25 Oct 1996
Sch 3 (item 130): 8 Dec 1994 (s 2(3))
—
Veterans’ Affairs (1994-95 Budget Measures) Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 1994
164, 1994
16 Dec 1994
s 4–12, 28–31, 35, 39–43, 45–51 and Sch 5: 1 Jan 1995 (s 2(4)) s 13–18, 21–24, 26, 27, 36–38, Sch 1–3: 20 Mar 1995 (s 2(3)) s 32–34): 1 July 1994 (s 2(2)) s 52–54: 16 Dec 1994 (s 2(1))
s 32
as amended by
Statute Law Revision Act 1996
43, 1996
25 Oct 1996
Sch 3 (items 138–141): 16 Dec 1994 (s 2(3))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget and Compensation Measures) Act 1997
157, 1997
3 Nov 1997
Sch 8 (item 2): 16 Dec 1994 (s 2(10))
—
Social Security (Parenting Allowance and Other Measures) Legislation Amendment Act 1994
174, 1994
16 Dec 1994
Sch 4 (items 42, 52): 1 Jan 1995 (s 2(5))
—
Student Assistance (Youth Training Allowance—Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 1994
184, 1994
23 Dec 1994
Sch 3 (items 66–73): 1 Jan 1995 (s 2)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 1) 1995
35, 1995
12 Apr 1995
Sch 2: 12 Apr 1995 (s 2)
s 3(2)
Social Security Legislation Amendment Act (No. 1) 1995
104, 1995
29 Sept 1995
Sch 16 (item 83): 1 July 1995 (s 2(5))
—
Social Security Legislation Amendment (Family Measures) Act 1995
106, 1995
29 Sept 1995
Sch 7: 1 Jan 1996 (s 2(3))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment and Repeal Act 1995
118, 1995
17 Oct 1995
Sch 1 (items 1, 2, 22–38, 140): 20 Mar 1995 (s 2(4), (9)) Sch 1 (items 3–8, 11, 13–16, 46–62, 66–70, 72–90, 92–110, 112–135, 137, 138, 142–144, 146–152, 155, 156):17 Oct 1995 (s 2(1)) Sch 1 (items 9, 10, 12, 17–21, 111, 141): 1 Jan 1994 (s 2(2), (12)) Sch 1 (items 39, 40, 91): 1 Jan 1995 (s 2(5), (8)) Sch 1 (item 41): 9 Jan 1995 (s 2(6)) Sch 1 (items 42–45, 153, 154): 1 July 1994 (s 2(3), (7)) Sch 1 (items 63–65, 71): 19 Dec 1994 (s 2(11)) Sch 1 (item 136): 16 Dec 1994 (s 2(10)) Sch 1 (items 139, 145): 1 July 1991 (s 2(13)) Sch 1 (item 157): 30 Nov 1994 (s 2(14))
—
as amended by
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget and Compensation Measures) Act 1997
157, 1997
3 Nov 1997
Sch 8 (items 3, 4): 17 Oct 1995 (s 2(11))
—
Veterans’ Affairs (1995–96 Budget Measures) Legislation Amendment Act 1995
128, 1995
14 Nov 1995
Sch 2–4, Sch 6 (items 1, 2) and Sch 8: 1 Oct 1995 (s 2(3)) Sch 6 (items 3, 4): 1 Jan 1996 (s 2(5)) Sch 7: 1 July 1995 (s 2(2))
Sch 2 (item 16)
as amended by
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget and Compensation Measures) Act 1997
157, 1997
3 Nov 1997
Sch 8 (item 5): 14 Nov 1995 (s 2(12))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (1995-96 Budget Measures) Act (No. 2) 1995
146, 1995
12 Dec 1995
Sch 1 (items 1, 9) and Sch 3–6: 20 Mar 1996 (s 2(8)) Sch 1 (items 2–8, 10–90): 1 Jan 1997 (s 2(13)) Sch 2: 19 Mar 1996 (s 2(7)(a)) Sch 7: 4 July 1996 (s 2(11)) Sch 8: 1 Jan 1996 (s 2(6)) Sch 9 (items 1, 3, 4): 1 July 1996 (s 2(10)) Sch 9 (items 2, 5): 19 Sept 1996 (s 2(12)) Sch 9 (items 6, 7): 1 May 1996 (s 2(9))
Sch 4 (items 7, 9)
as amended by
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget and Compensation Measures) Act 1997
157, 1997
3 Nov 1997
Sch 8 (items 6, 7): 12 Dec 1995 (s 2(13))
—
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act 1995
1, 1996
9 Jan 1996
Sch 9 (item 1) and Sch 16 (items 4–35): 1 July 1996 (s 2(4)(a), (e)) Sch 9 (items 2–9): 20 Sept 1996 (s 2(5)(b)) Sch 16 items 1–3): 9 Jan 1996 (s 2(1)) Sch 17: 9 July 1996 (s 2(8))
—
as amended by
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget and Compensation Measures) Act 1997
157, 1997
3 Nov 1997
Sch 8 (item 8): 9 Jan 1996 (s 2(14))
—
Statute Law Revision Act 1996
43, 1996
25 Oct 1996
Sch 2 (items 113–137): (s 2(2)) Sch 4 (items 148–150) and Sch 5 (item 153): 25 Oct 1996 (s 2(1))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 1) 1996
55, 1996
8 Nov 1996
Sch 2: 8 Nov 1996 (s 2(1))
Sch 2 (item 4)
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (1996-97 Budget Measures) Act 1997
7, 1997
5 Mar 1997
Sch 1 (items 1–5, 7, 25–33, 64–78): 5 Mar 1997 (s 2(1)(b)) Sch 1 (item 24): 17 Aug 1995 (s 2(2)) Sch 1 (items 22, 23): 21 Aug 1996 (s 2(3)) Sch 1 (items 40–63): 2 Apr 1997 (s 2(4)) Sch 1 (items 6, 8–21, 34–39): 20 Mar 1997 (s 2(5), (6))
Sch 1 (items 23, 66, 78)
Income Tax (Consequential Amendments) Act 1997
39, 1997
17 Apr 1997
Sch 3 (item 133–137): 1 July 1997 (s 2)
—
as amended by
Tax Law Improvement Act 1997
121, 1997
8 July 1997
Sch 12 (item 30): 1 July 1997 (s 2(4))
—
Hearing Services and AGHS Reform Act 1997
82, 1997
18 June 1997
Sch 3 (item 1): 18 June 1997 (s 2(1))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget and Simplification Measures) Act 1997
87, 1997
27 June 1997
Sch 1: 1 Jan 1998 (s 2(2))
—
Aged Care (Consequential Provisions) Act 1997
114, 1997
7 July 1997
Sch 4 (items 1–94): 1 Oct 1997 (s 2(1), (4))
Sch 4 (items 51, 89, 94)
as amended by
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 1) 2002
73, 2002
6 Sept 2002
Sch 3: 1 Oct 1997 (s 2(1) item 3)
—
Tax Law Improvement Act 1997
121, 1997
8 July 1997
s 4: 8 July 1997 (s 2(1)) Sch 6 (items 142, 143) and Sch 12 (item 35): 1 July 1997 (s 2(3), (5))
s 4
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget and Compensation Measures) Act 1997
157, 1997
3 Nov 1997
Sch 1 (items 1–8, 130–132, 135): 13 May 1997 (s 2(2)) Sch 1 (items 9–32): 1 Jan 1998 (s 2(3)) Sch 1 (items 33–42): 20 Sept 1998 (s 2(4)) Sch 1 (items 43–116): 11 Dec 1997 (s 2(5)(a)) Sch 1 (items 117, 128, 129, 133, 134) and Sch 8 (items 27, 29–44): 3 Nov 1997 (s 2(1)) Sch 1 (items 118–127): 10 Nov 1997 (s 2(6)) Sch 4 (item 1) and Sch 8 (items 9–14): 1 July 1997 (s 2(7), (15)) Sch 5 (items 2–7): 1 Dec 1997 (s 2(8)) Sch 8 (items 15–26): 20 Mar 1996 (s 2(16)) Sch 8 (item 28): 4 July 1996 (s 2(16A))
Sch 1 (item 26)
as amended by
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 1) 2002
73, 2002
6 Sept 2002
Sch 5 (item 1): 3 Nov 1997 (s 2(1) item 5) Sch 5 (item 2): 11 Dec 1997 (s 2(1) item 6)
—
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Male Total Average Weekly Earnings Benchmark) Act 1997
175, 1997
21 Nov 1997
Sch 1 (items 3, 4): 20 Sept 1997 (s 2)
—
Social Security Legislation Amendment (Parenting and Other Measures) Act 1997
197, 1997
11 Dec 1997
Sch 1 (items 362–368): 20 Mar 1998 (s 2(2))
—
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Family and Other Measures) Act 1997
202, 1997
16 Dec 1997
Sch 19 (items 3–5): 1 Jan 1998 (s 2(2))
—
as amended by
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 1) 2002
73, 2002
6 Sept 2002
Sch 4: 1 Jan 1998 (s 2(1) item 4)
—
Social Security Legislation Amendment (Youth Allowance Consequential and Related Measures) Act 1998
45, 1998
17 June 1998
Sch 5 (item 30) and Sch 13 (items 50–70, 72–82): 1 July 1998 (s 2(1)) Sch 13 (item 71): 20 Sept 1998 (s 2(10))
Sch 13 (items 61, 78)
Financial Sector Reform (Consequential Amendments) Act 1998
48, 1998
29 June 1998
Sch 1 (items 195, 196): 1 July 1998 (s 2(2))
—
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Pension Bonus Scheme) Act 1998
67, 1998
30 June 1998
Sch 2: 30 June 1998 (s 2)
—
Veterans’ Entitlements Amendment (Male Total Average Weekly Earnings Benchmark) Act 1998
69, 1998
30 June 1998
19 Mar 1998 (s 2)
—
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Retirement Assistance for Farmers) Act 1998
84, 1998
2 July 1998
Sch 2: 15 Sept 1997 (s 2)
—
Veterans’ Entitlements Amendment (Gold Card) Act 1998
92, 1998
14 July 1998
1 Jan 1999 (s 2)
Sch 1 (item 3)
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget and Other Measures) Act 1998
93, 1998
15 July 1998
Sch 3 (items 44–86): 20 Sept 1998 (s 2(3)) Sch 7 (items 47–66): 1 Apr 1998 (s 2(9))
—
1998 Budget Measures Legislation Amendment (Social Security and Veterans’ Entitlements) Act 1998
116, 1998
11 Dec 1998
Sch 1 (items 12–20): 1 Jan 1999 (s 2(2))
—
Payment Processing Legislation Amendment (Social Security and Veterans’ Entitlements) Act 1998
132, 1998
24 Dec 1998
Sch 4 (items 1–43, 46–73): 1 July 1999 (s 2(1)) Sch 4 (items 44, 45): 13 July 1999 (s 2(2)) Sch 7: 24 Dec 1998 (s 2(3))
—
Assistance for Carers Legislation Amendment Act 1999
13, 1999
9 Apr 1999
Sch 2 (items 74, 75): 1 July 1999 (s 2(2)(b))
—
Financial Sector Reform (Amendments and Transitional Provisions) Act (No. 1) 1999
44, 1999
17 July 1999
Sch 7 (items 232–244): 1 July 1999 (s 3(2)(e), (16) and gaz 1999, No S283)
—
as amended by
Financial Sector Legislation Amendment Act (No. 1) 2000
160, 2000
21 Dec 2000
Sch 4 (items 4, 5): 18 Jan 2001 (s 2(1))
—
A New Tax System (Compensation Measures Legislation Amendment) Act 1999
68, 1999
8 July 1999
Sch 2: 1 July 2000 (s 2(2), (3))
Sch 2 (item 45)
as amended by
Compensation Measures Legislation Amendment (Rent Assistance Increase) Act 2000
93, 2000
30 June 2000
Sch 1 (items 3, 4): 1 July 2000 (s 2)
—
Social Security and Family Assistance Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous Measures) Act 2006
108, 2006
27 Sept 2006
Sch 6 (item 1): 1 July 2000 (s 2(1) item 7)
—
Statute Law Revision Act 2010
8, 2010
1 Mar 2010
Sch 2 (item 1): 1 July 2000 (s 2(1) item 5)
—
A New Tax System (Family Assistance) (Consequential and Related Measures) Act (No. 2) 1999
83, 1999
8 July 1999
Sch 9: 1 July 2000 (s 2(2))
—
Statute Stocktake Act 1999
118, 1999
22 Sept 1999
Sch 2 (item 15): 22 Sept 1999 (s 2(1))
—
Aged Care Amendment (Omnibus) Act 1999
132, 1999
13 Oct 1999
Sch 3: 21 Oct 1999 (s 2(1) and gaz 1999, No S496)
—
Public Employment (Consequential and Transitional) Amendment Act 1999
146, 1999
11 Nov 1999
Sch 1 (items 963–977): 5 Dec 1999 (s 2(1), (2))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 1) 1999
171, 1999
10 Dec 1999
Sch 1 and Sch 3: 1 Jan 2000 (s 2(2)) Sch 2: 10 Dec 1999 (s 2(1)) Sch 4: 13 May 1997 (s 2(3)) Sch 6 (items 6, 7): 10 Nov 1997 (s 2(4)) Sch 6 (item 8): 8 Dec 1994 (s 2(5)) Sch 6 (items 9–13): 22 Dec 1988 (s 2(6))
—
A New Tax System (Tax Administration) Act 1999
179, 1999
22 Dec 1999
Sch 5 (items 70–72) and Sch 11 (items 115, 116): 1 July 2000 (s 2(9))
—
A New Tax System (Tax Administration) Act (No. 1) 2000
44, 2000
3 May 2000
Sch 3 (items 75–77): 22 Dec 1999 (s 2(1))
—
Social Security and Veterans’ Entitlements Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous Matters) Act 2000
94, 2000
30 June 2000
Sch 3: 30 June 2000 (s 2(1))
Sch 3 (item 18)
Retirement Assistance for Farmers Scheme Extension Act 2000
118, 2000
7 Sept 2000
Sch 2: 7 Sept 2000 (s 2)
—
Social Security and Veterans’ Entitlements Legislation Amendment (Private Trusts and Private Companies—Integrity of Means Testing) Act 2000
132, 2000
13 Nov 2000
Sch 2: 13 Nov 2000 (s 2)
Sch 2 (item 12)
Criminal Code Amendment (Theft, Fraud, Bribery and Related Offences) Act 2000
137, 2000
24 Nov 2000
Sch 2 (items 408–411, 418, 419): 24 May 2001 (s 2(3))
Sch 2 (items 418, 419)
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 1) 2000
141, 2000
24 Nov 2000
Sch 1 (items 1–12, 14–38): 24 Nov 2000 (s 2(1)) Sch 1 (item 13): 1 Jan 1996 (s 2(2)) Sch 1 (items 39–51): 1 July 2000 (s 2(3))
Sch 1 (items 10, 12, 21)
as amended by
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 1) 2002
73, 2002
6 Sept 2002
Sch 7: 24 Nov 2000 (s 2(1) item 69)
—
Family Law Amendment Act 2000
143, 2000
29 Nov 2000
Sch 3 (item 120): 27 Dec 2000 (s 2(1))
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget Measures) Act 2000
157, 2000
21 Dec 2000
Sch 2–4: 1 Jan 2001 (s 2(2)) Sch 5: 1 July 2001 (s 2(3)) Remainder: 21 Dec 2000 (s 2(1))
—
as amended by
Statute Law Revision Act 2002
63, 2002
3 July 2002
Sch 2 (item 36): 1 July 2001 (s 2(1) item 65)
—
Defence Legislation Amendment (Enhancement of the Reserves and Modernisation) Act 2001
10, 2001
22 Mar 2001
Sch 2 (items 87, 94, 95): 19 Apr 2001 (s 2(1))
Sch 2 (items 94, 95)
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Application of Criminal Code) Act 2001
16, 2001
30 Mar 2001
s 4 and Sch 1 (items 3–40: 24 May 2001 (s 2(c))
s 4
Family and Community Services and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Further Assistance for Older Australians) Act 2001
42, 2001
25 May 2001
Sch 2 (items 8–10): 1 Sept 2001 (s 2(2)) Sch 3 (item 2): 1 July 2001 (s 2(1))
—
Family and Community Services and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Debt Recovery) Act 2001
47, 2001
12 June 2001
Sch 4: (items 1–8A): 1 July 2001 (s 2(2) Sch 4 (item 9): 12 June 2001 (s 2(1)
Sch 4 (item 9)
Corporations (Repeals, Consequentials and Transitionals) Act 2001
55, 2001
28 June 2001
s 4–14 and Sch 3 (items 559–562): 15 July 2001 (s 2(1), (3))
s 4–14
New Business Tax System (Capital Allowances—Transitional and Consequential) Act 2001
77, 2001
30 June 2001
Sch 2 (items 484–488): 30 June 2001 (s 2(1))
Sch 2 (item 488)
as amended by
Taxation Laws Amendment Act (No. 5) 2002
119, 2002
2 Dec 2002
Sch 3 (item 97): 30 June 2001 (s 2(1) item 9)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (2001 Budget Measures) Act 2001
102, 2001
4 Sept 2001
Sch 2: 1 July 2001 (s 2(2)) Sch 4: never commenced (s 2(3)(b), (4)(b)) Remainder: 4 Sept 2001 (s 2(1))
—
Social Security and Veterans’ Entitlements Legislation Amendment (Retirement Assistance for Farmers) Act 2001
151, 2001
1 Oct 2001
Sch 2: 1 Oct 2001 (s 2)
—
Abolition of Compulsory Age Retirement (Statutory Officeholders) Act 2001
159, 2001
1 Oct 2001
Sch 1 (items 92–94, 97): 29 Oct 2001 (s 2(1))
Sch 1 (item 97)
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Further Budget 2000 and Other Measures) Act 2002
11, 2002
4 Apr 2002
Sch 1, Sch 2, Sch 3 (items 13–31) and Sch 4: 20 Sept 2001 (s 2(1) item 3)
—
Veterans’ Entitlements Amendment (Gold Card Extension) Act 2002
12, 2002
4 Apr 2002
1 July 2002 (s 2)
Sch 1 (item 2)
Social Security and Veterans’ Entitlements Legislation Amendment (Disposal of Assets—Integrity of Means Testing) Act 2002
54, 2002
29 June 2002
Sch 2: 1 July 2002 (s 2)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (2002 Budget Measures) Act 2002
72, 2002
6 Sept 2002
Sch 1 (items 3–5): 20 Sept 2002 (s 2(1) item 3) Remainder: 6 Sept 2002 (s 2(1) items 1, 2, 4)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 1) 2002
73, 2002
6 Sept 2002
Sch 6 (items 1, 62, 69): 1 Jan 1995 (s 2(1) items 7, 51, 55) Sch 6 (items 2, 46, 48, 49, 83, 85, 87–96): 1 Jan 1998 (s 2(1) items 8, 40, 42, 64, 66, 68) Sch 6 (items 3, 6, 13, 47): 20 Sept 1998 (s 2(1) items 9, 12, 19, 41) Sch 6 (items 4, 14): 9 July 1996 (s 2(1) items 10, 20) Sch 6 (item 5): 17 Oct 1995 (s 2(1) item 11) Sch 6 (items 7, 9): 1 July 1998 (s 2(1) items 13, 15) Sch 6 (item 8): 15 Sept 1997 (s 2(1) item 14) Sch 6 (items 10, 12, 24–29, 33, 39, 40): 20 Mar 1995 (s 2(1) items 16, 18, 26, 30, 35) Sch 6 (item 11): 21 Oct 1999 (s 2(1) item 17) Sch 6 (item 15): 1 July 2000 (s 2(1) item 21) Sch 6 (items 16, 17, 19, 21, 22, 32, 35, 42, 43, 50, 54, 57, 61, 64, 65, 70–76, 79, 81, 82, 84, 86): 6 Sept 2002 (s 2(1) items 22, 24, 29, 32, 37, 43, 46, 48, 50, 52, 56–58, 61, 63, 65, 67) Sch 6 (items 18, 36, 37, 52, 53): 13 May 1997 (s 2(1) items 23, 33, 45) Sch 6 (item 23): 21 June 1994 (s 2(1) item 25) Sch 6 (items 30, 38): 1 July 1999 (s 2(1) items 27, 34) Sch 6 (items 31, 45): 20 Mar 1997 (s 2(1) items 28, 39) Sch 6 (item 34): 1 July 1991 (s 2(1) item 31) Sch 6 (items 41, 80): 16 Dec 1994 (s 2(1) items 36, 62) Sch 6 (items 44, 77): 11 Dec 1997 (s 2(1) items 38, 59) Sch 6 (items 51, 78): 22 May 1986 (s 2(1) items 44, 60) Sch 6 (items 56, 60): 24 Nov 2000 (s 2(1) items 47, 49) Sch 6 (item 67): 10 Nov 1997 (s 2(1) item 53)
—
as amended by
Statute Law Revision Act 2006
9, 2006
23 Mar 2006
Sch 2 (item 26): 13 May 1997 (s 2(1) item 41)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 2) 2002
74, 2002
6 Sept 2002
Sch 1 (items 3–8): 20 Sept 2001 (s 2(1) item 3) Remainder: 6 Sept 2002 (s 2(1) items 1, 2, 4)
—
Family Law Legislation Amendment (Superannuation) (Consequential Provisions) Act 2002
121, 2002
2 Dec 2002
Sch 4: 28 Dec 2002 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment Act (No. 1) 2003
26, 2003
11 Apr 2003
11 Apr 2003 (s 2)
Sch 1 (items 8, 28, 32, 35)
Family and Community Services Legislation Amendment Act 2003
30, 2003
15 Apr 2003
Sch 3 (items 9–14): 15 Apr 2003 (s 2(1) item 22)
—
Family and Community Services and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (2003 Budget and Other Measures) Act 2003
122, 2003
5 Dec 2003
Sch 1 (items 3, 4): 5 Dec 2003 (s 2(1) item 2)
Sch 1 (item 4)
Legislative Instruments (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 2003
140, 2003
17 Dec 2003
Schedule 1 (item 36): 1 Jan 2005 (s 2(1) item 3)
—
Higher Education Support (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 2003
150, 2003
19 Dec 2003
Sch 2 (item 169): 1 Jan 2004 (s 2(1) item 16)
—
Health and Ageing Legislation Amendment Act 2004
50, 2004
21 Apr 2004
Sch 1 (item 23): 21 Apr 2004 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Military Rehabilitation and Compensation (Consequential and Transitional Provisions) Act 2004
52, 2004
27 Apr 2004
Sch 1: 1 July 2004 (s 2(1) item 3)
Sch 1 (items 16C, 44, 142)
as amended by
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Statements of Principles and Other Measures) Act 2007
29, 2007
15 Mar 2007
Sch 4 (item 30): 16 Mar 2007 (s 2(1) item 7)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (2007 Measures No. 1) Act 2007
89, 2007
21 June 2007
Sch 3: 1 July 2004 (s 2(1) items 20, 21)
—
Veterans’ Entitlements Amendment (Electronic Delivery) Act 2004
63, 2004
26 May 2004
Sch 1: 26 Nov 2004 (s 2(1) item 2)
Sch 1 (items 31, 40, 92)
Veterans’ Entitlements Amendment (Direct Deductions and Other Measures) Act 2004
94, 2004
29 June 2004
Sch 1 (items 11, 12, 14, 25, 26): 1 July 2004 (s 2(1) items 3, 5, 7) Sch 1 (items 38–40, 42): 1 July 1995 (s 2(1) items 9, 11) Remainder: 29 June 2004 (s 2(1) items 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12)
Sch 1 (items 5, 15, 21, 24, 26, 31, 33)
as amended by
Statute Law Revision Act 2006
9, 2006
23 Mar 2006
Sch 2 (item 27): 29 June 2004 (s 2(1) item 42)
—
Veterans’ Entitlements (Clarke Review) Act 2004
100, 2004
30 June 2004
Sch 1: 20 Mar 2004 (s 2(1) item 2) Sch 2 (items 1–14, 16–28, 43(1), 44): 20 Sept 2004 (s 2(1) items 3, 3B–3D) Sch 2 (item 15): 30 June 2004 (s 2(1) item 3A) Sch 3: 1 Jan 2005 (s 2(1) items 4, 5) Sch 4, Sch 5 and Sch 6 (items 5, 6) 1 July 2004 (s 2(1) items 6–8)
Sch 2 (items 43(1), 44) and Sch 4 (item 4)
Family and Community Services and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Sugar Reform) Act 2004
109, 2004
13 July 2004
Sch 3: 13 July 2004 (s 2)
—
Family and Community Services and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Income Streams) Act 2004
116, 2004
13 July 2004
Sch 2: 20 Sept 2004 (s 2(1) item 2)
Sch 2 (items 26, 27, 29)
Family and Community Services and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (2004 Budget Measures) Act 2004
128, 2004
31 Aug 2004
Sch 1 (items 3, 4): 31 Aug 2004 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Family and Community Services and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (2004 Election Commitments) Act 2004
132, 2004
8 Dec 2004
Sch 1 (items 20–25) and Sch 2 (items 17–24): 1 Dec 2004 (s 2(1) items 2–5) Sch 5: 1 Jan 2005 (s 2(1) item 8)
Sch 2 (item 24) and Sch 5 (item 4)
as amended by
Social Security and Family Assistance Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous Measures) Act 2006
108, 2006
27 Sept 2006
Sch 6 (item 3): 1 Dec 2004 (s 2(1) item 9)
—
Family and Community Services and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Further 2004 Election Commitments and Other Measures) Act 2005
29, 2005
21 Mar 2005
Sch 3 (items 10–19) 21 Mar 2005 (s 2(1) item 4)
Sch 3 (items 18, 19)
Family and Community Services Legislation Amendment (Family Assistance and Related Measures) Act 2005
61, 2005
26 June 2005
Sch 4 (items 20–25, 29, 30): 1 July 2005 (s 2(1) item 11)
Sch 4 (items 29, 30)
Social Security Amendment (Extension of Youth Allowance and Austudy Eligibility to New Apprentices) Act 2005
66, 2005
26 June 2005
Sch 2 (items 6, 7): 1 July 2005 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Veterans’ Entitlements Amendment (2005 Budget Measure) Act 2005
85, 2005
6 July 2005
6 July 2005: (s 2(1) items 1–3)
—
Statute Law Revision Act 2005
100, 2005
6 July 2005
Sch 1 (item 83): 6 July 2005 (s 2(1) item 23)
—
Family Assistance, Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (2005 Budget and Other Measures) Act 2006
36, 2006
3 May 2006
Sch 9: 1 Jan 2006 (s 2(1) item 11)
Sch 9 (item 14)
Social Security and Veterans’ Entitlements Legislation Amendment (One-off Payments to Increase Assistance for Older Australians and Carers and Other Measures) Act 2006
41, 2006
22 May 2006
Sch 1 (items 7, 16) and Sch 3 (item 18): 22 May 2006 (s 2)
Sch 2 (item 2)
Families, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs and Other Legislation (2006 Budget and Other Measures) Act 2006
82, 2006
30 June 2006
Sch 7 (items 15–33): 20 Sept 2006 (s 2(1) item 7)
Sch 7 (item 33)
Tax Laws Amendment (Repeal of Inoperative Provisions) Act 2006
101, 2006
14 Sept 2006
Sch 2 (items 1007–1016): 14 Sept 2006 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Social Security and Family Assistance Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous Measures) Act 2006
108, 2006
27 Sept 2006
Sch 6 (item 4): 27 Sept 2006 (s 2(1) item 10)
—
Child Support Legislation Amendment (Reform of the Child Support Scheme—New Formula and Other Measures) Act 2006
146, 2006
6 Dec 2006
Sch 7 (items 9, 10) and Sch 8 (items 143, 144): 1 July 2008 (s 2(1) items 12, 19)
—
Families, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (2006 Budget Measures) Act 2006
156, 2006
8 Dec 2006
Sch 1 (items 21–45): 1 Jan 2007(s 2(1) item 2)
Sch 1 (items 44, 45)
Statute Law Revision Act 2007
8, 2007
15 Mar 2007
Sch 1 (item 26): 20 Sept 1998 (s 2(1) item 22)
—
Tax Laws Amendment (Simplified Superannuation) Act 2007
9, 2007
15 Mar 2007
Sch 9 (items 1–15): 20 Sept 2007 (s 2(1) item 12) Sch 9 (item 16): 1 July 2007 (s 2(1) item 13)
Sch 9 (item 15)
Superannuation Legislation Amendment (Simplification) Act 2007
15, 2007
15 Mar 2007
Sch 1 (items 395–404, 406(1)–(3), (5)): 15 Mar 2007 (s 2(1) item 2)
Sch 1 (item 406(1)–(3), (5))
Australian Citizenship (Transitionals and Consequentials) Act 2007
21, 2007
15 Mar 2007
Sch 1 (item 41): 1 July 2007 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Statements of Principles and Other Measures) Act 2007
29, 2007
15 Mar 2007
Sch 1–3 and Sch 4 (item 31): 16 Mar 2007 (s 2(1) items 2, 7)
Sch 3 (item 31)
Private Health Insurance (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 2007
32, 2007
30 Mar 2007
Sch 2 (items 104–108): 1 Apr 2007 (s 2(1) item 7)
—
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (One-off Payments and Other 2007 Budget Measures) Act 2007
66, 2007
11 May 2007
Sch 1 (items 15, 28) and Sch 3 (item 18): 11 May 2007 (s 2(1) item 2) Sch 6–8: 1 July 2007 (s 2(1) item 3)
Sch 2 (item 2), Sch 5, Sch 6 (item 4), Sch 7 (item 3) and Sch 8 (item 6)
as amended by
Administrative Review Tribunal (Consequential and Transitional Provisions No. 1) Act 2024
38, 2024
31 May 2024
Sch 15 (item 44): 14 Oct 2024 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Veterans’ Entitlements, Treatment and Support (Simplification and Harmonisation) Act 2025
17, 2025
20 Feb 2025
sch 2 (item 50): 1 July 2026 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Families, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs Legislation Amendment (Child Support Reform Consolidation and Other Measures) Act 2007
82, 2007
21 June 2007
Sch 8 (items 79–96): 1 July 2008 (s 2(1) item 25) Sch 10 (items 11–18) and Sch 11 (item 26): 1 July 2007 (s 2(1) items 27, 31) Sch 11 (items 14–25): 21 June 2007 (s 2(1) item 30)
—
Health Insurance Amendment (Inappropriate and Prohibited Practices and Other Measures) Act 2007
88, 2007
21 June 2007
Sch 1 (item 110): 1 Mar 2008 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (2007 Measures No. 1) Act 2007
89, 2007
21 June 2007
Sch 1 (items 1, 3–7, 10–16, 18–25, 29–51, 54–56, 65–78, 80–82, 84): 22 June 2007 (s 2(1) items 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18) Sch 1 (item 2): 1 July 1998 (s 2(1) item 3) Sch 1 (items 8, 9, 17, 26–28, 52, 53, 57–64, 79, 83): 21 June 2007 (s 2(1) items 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17)
Sch 1 (items 80–84)
Corporations Legislation Amendment (Simpler Regulatory System) Act 2007
101, 2007
28 June 2007
Sch 1 (items 182–187, 231): 28 June 2007 (s 2(1) items 2, 7)
Sch 1 (item 231)
Social Security Amendment (Apprenticeship Wage Top-Up for Australian Apprentices) Act 2007
114, 2007
28 June 2007
Sch 1 (item 5): 1 July 2007 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Social Security and Other Legislation Amendment (Welfare Payment Reform) Act 2007
130, 2007
17 Aug 2007
Sch 1 (item 22): 18 Aug 2007 (s 2)
—
Veterans’ Entitlements Amendment (Disability, War Widow and War Widower Pensions) Act 2007
167, 2007
25 Sept 2007
20 Mar 2008 (s 2)
Sch 1 (item 11)
Families, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs Legislation Amendment (Further 2007 Budget Measures) Act 2007
183, 2007
28 Sept 2007
Sch 1 (items 53–96) and Sch 4 (items 9–17): 1 Jan 2008 (s 2)
Sch 1 (items 65, 71, 73, 78) and Sch 4 (item 17)
Social Security and Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Enhanced Allowances) Act 2008
5, 2008
20 Mar 2008
Sch 1 (items 7–13, 14(2), Sch 2 (items 8–16, 17(2) and Sch 3 (items 29–35, 37): 20 Mar 2008 (s 2(1) item 2)
Sch 1 (item 14(2)), Sch 2 (item 17(2)) and Sch 3 (item 37)
Social Security and Veterans’ Entitlements Legislation Amendment (One-off Payments and Other Budget Measures) Act 2008
19, 2008
26 May 2008
Sch 1 (items 15, 37), Sch 2 (item 2) and Sch 3 (item 71): 26 May 2008 (s 2(1) items 2–4, 6) Sch 5 (items 14–21, 23, 25): 1 July 2008 Sch 5 (item 22): never commenced (s 2(1) item 9) Sch 5 (item 24): 25 June 2008 (s 2(1) item 11)
Sch 2 (item 2) and Sch 5 (item 25)
Superannuation Legislation Amendment (Trustee Board and Other Measures) (Consequential Amendments) Act 2008
26, 2008
23 June 2008
Sch 1 (items 122–129): 23 June 2008 (s 2(1) item 4)
—
First Home Saver Accounts (Consequential Amendments) Act 2008
45, 2008
25 June 2008
Sch 3 (items 39–46): 26 June 2008 (s 2)
—
Veterans’ Entitlements Legislation Amendment (2007 Election Commitments) Act 2008
48, 2008
25 June 2008
Sch 1 (items 1–7), Sch 2 (items 1–7, 12–39) and Sch 3 (items 3–15, 16(2)): 1 July 2008 (s 2(1) items 2–6)
Sch 1 (item 7), Sch 2 (items 5–7) and Sch 3 (item 16(2))
as amended by
Social Security and Veterans’ Entitlements Legislation Amendment (One-off Payments and Other Budget Measures) Act 2008
19, 2008
26 May 2008
Sch 5 (item 24): 1 July 2008 (s 2(1) item 11)
—
Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs and Other Legislation Amendment (2008 Budget and Other Measures) Act 2008
63, 2008
30 June 2008
s 4: 30 June 2008 (s 2(1) item 1) Sch 3 (items 12–18): 1 Sept 2008 (s 2(1) item 6) Sch 5: 1 July 2008 (s 2(1) item 9)
s 4, Sch 3 (item 18) and Sch 5 (item 3)
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (International Agreements and Other Measures) Act 2008
81, 2008
12 July 2008
Sch 1 (items 1–24): 13 July 2008 (s 2(1) item 2) Sch 1 (items 25–44, 46–69, 71–86): 12 July 2008 (s 2(1) items 3, 5, 7) Sch 1 (item 45): never commenced (s 2(1) item 4) Sch 1 (item 70): 4 Sept 2001 (s 2(1) item 6)
Sch 1 (items 2, 6, 86)
Family Law Amendment (De Facto Financial Matters and Other Measures) Act 2008
115, 2008
21 Nov 2008
Sch 2 (items 48–52): 1 Mar 2009 (s 2(1) item 5)
—
Social Security and Other Legislation Amendment (Economic Security Strategy) Act 2008
131, 2008
1 Dec 2008
Sch 2, Sch 4 and Sch 5 (items 17–19): 1 Dec 2008 (s 2)
Sch 4
Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs and Other Legislation Amendment (Further 2008 Budget and Other Measures) Act 2008
143, 2008
9 Dec 2008
Sch 2 (items 1–3): 9 Dec 2008 (s 2(1) item 5) Sch 2 (items 4–7): 1 July 2009 (s 2(1) item 6)
Sch 2 (items 3, 7)
Same-Sex Relationships (Equal Treatment in Commonwealth Laws—General Law Reform) Act 2008
144, 2008
9 Dec 2008
Sch 15 (items 47–93, 96): 1 July 2009 (s 2(1) item 37)
Sch 15 (item 96)
Social Security and Veterans’ Entitlements Legislation Amendment (Schooling Requirements) Act 2008
149, 2008
11 Dec 2008
Sch 1 (items 29–34): 11 Dec 2008 (s 2)
Sch 1 (item 34)
Household Stimulus Package Act (No. 2) 2009
4, 2009
18 Feb 2009
Sch 4 and Sch 5 (items 21, 22): 18 Feb 2009 (s 2(1) item 5)
Sch 4
Tax Bonus for Working Australians (Consequential Amendments) Act (No. 2) 2009
6, 2009
18 Feb 2009
Sch 1 (item 8): 18 Feb 2009 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Social Security Amendment (Liquid Assets Waiting Period) Act 2009
25, 2009
26 Mar 2009
Sch 1 (item 13): 18 Feb 2009 (s 2(1) item 3)
—
Tax Laws Amendment (2009 Measures No. 1) Act 2009
27, 2009
26 Mar 2009
Sch 3 (items 89–91, 102(1)): 27 Mar 2009 (s 2(1) item 5)
Sch 3 (item 102(1))
Social Security Legislation Amendment (Improved Support for Carers) (Consequential and Transitional) Act 2009
45, 2009
23 June 2009
Sch 3: 1 July 2009 (s 2(1) item 2)
Sch 3 (item 2)
Social Security and Other Legislation Amendment (Australian Apprentices) Act 2009
52, 2009
24 June 2009
Sch 1 (item 5): 1 July 2009 (s 2)
—
Social Security and Other Legislation Amendment (Pension Reform and Other 2009 Budget Measures) Act 2009
60, 2009
29 June 2009
Sch 13 (items 3, 4) and Sch 16 (item 2): 1 July 2009 (s 2(1) items 14, 19) Sch 18: 29 June 2009 (s 2(1) item 21)
Sch 13 (item 4)
Financial Sector Legislation Amendment (Enhancing Supervision and Enforcement) Act 2009
75, 2009
27 Aug 2009
Sch 1 (item 223): 27 Feb 2010 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget Measures) Act 2009
80, 2009
10 Sept 2009
Sch 1 (items 3–10, 15): 11 Sept 2009 (s 2)
—
Veterans’ Affairs and Other Legislation Amendment (Pension Reform) Act 2009
81, 2009
10 Sept 2009
Sch 1 (items 1–33, 36), Sch 4 (items 1–15, 149–213, 214(7)), Sch 6, Sch 7 and Sch 9 (items 1–3): 20 Sept 2009 (s 2(1) items 2, 3, 5, 8, 11, 12, 14, 16, 17) Sch 2, Sch 8 and Sch 10: 10 Sept 2009 (s 2(1) items 6, 15, 20) Sch 3: 1 Jan 2010 (s 2(1) items 7) Sch 5: never commenced (s 2(1) item 13) Sch 9 (items 4, 5): 21 Sept 2009 (s 2(1) item 18) Sch 11: 1 July 2010 (s 2(1) item 21)
Sch 1 (item 36), Sch 2 (items 6, 7), Sch 4 (items 207–213, 214(7)), Sch 6 (item 18), Sch 7 (item 5), Sch 8 (item 2) and Sch 11 (item 6)
Statute Law Revision Act 2010
8, 2010
1 Mar 2010
Sch 1 (items 253–255) and Sch 5 (item 137): 1 Mar 2010 (s 2(1) items 4, 38)
—
as amended by
Statute Law Revision Act 2012
136, 2012
22 Sept 2012
Sch 2 (item 33): 22 Sept 2012 (s 2(1) item 25)
—
Social Security and Other Legislation Amendment (Income Support for Students) Act 2010
17, 2010
24 Mar 2010
Sch 2 (items 32–34): 1 Apr 2010 (s 2(1) item 10)
Sch 2 (item 34)
Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs and Other Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous Measures) Act 2010
33, 2010
13 Apr 2010
Sch 2 (items 40–49): 13 Apr 2010 (s 2(1) item 3)
—
Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs and Other Legislation Amendment (2009 Measures) Act 2010
38, 2010
13 Apr 2010
Sch 5 (items 4–6): 14 Apr 2010 (s 2(1) item 10)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (2010 Budget Measures) Act 2010
83, 2010
29 June 2010
Sch 1, Sch 2 (items 1–5), Sch 3 (items 2–7) and Sch 4: 1 July 2010 (s 2(1) item 2) Sch 5: 1 Oct 2010 (s 2(1) item 3)
Sch 1 (items 23, 24), Sch 2 (item 5), Sch 3 (item 7), Sch 4 (item 8) and Sch 5 (item 10)
Veterans’ Entitlements Amendment (Income Support Measures) Act 2010
99, 2010
6 July 2010
Sch 1 (items 29–33, 36): 7 July 2010 (s 2(1) items 3, 5) Remainder: 6 July 2010 (s 2(1) items 1, 2, 4)
Sch 1 (items 34–36)
Paid Parental Leave (Consequential Amendments) Act 2010
105, 2010
14 July 2010
Sch 1 (items 84–90) and Sch 2 (items 1, 2): 1 Oct 2010 (s 2(1) items 13, 14)
Sch 2 (items 1, 2)
Veterans’ Affairs and Other Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous Measures) Act 2010
120, 2010
17 Nov 2010
Sch 1 (items 8–11, 13–36. 46–48): 17 Nov 2010 (s 2(1) items 2, 4)
Sch 1 (items 11, 14, 36)
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Weekly Payments) Act 2010
135, 2010
24 Nov 2010
Sch 1 (items 4–8): 24 Nov 2010 (s 2)
—
Statute Law Revision Act 2011
5, 2011
22 Mar 2011
Sch 1 (items 113–117): 22 Mar 2011 (s 2(1) item 2) Sch 5 (items 218–222) and Sch 7 (items 142–146): 19 Apr 2011 (s 2(1) items 13, 18)
—
Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs and Other Legislation Amendment (Budget and Other Measures) Act 2011
34, 2011
26 May 2011
Sch 1 (items 6–11): 1 Jan 2011 (s 2(1) item 2) Sch 6 (items 9–16): 26 May 2011 (s 2(1) item 4)
Sch 1 (item 11)
Acts Interpretation Amendment Act 2011
46, 2011
27 June 2011
Sch 2 (item 1170) and Sch 3 (items 10, 11): 27 Dec 2011 (s 2(1) items 7, 12)
Sch 3 (items 10, 11)
Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs and Other Legislation Amendment (Election Commitments and Other Measures) Act 2011
50, 2011
27 June 2011
Sch 1 (items 6–12): 1 July 2011 (s 2(1) items 4–6) Sch 4 (items 7–9): 27 June 2011 (s 2(1) item 11)
Sch 1 (item 12)
Superannuation Legislation (Consequential Amendments and Transitional Provisions) Act 2011
58, 2011
28 June 2011
Sch 1 (items 243–245): 1 July 2011 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Veterans’ Entitlements Amendment Act 2011
95, 2011
15 Sept 2011
Sch 1 (items 1–7, 12, 13) and Sch 3 (items 3–14, 15(2)–(6)): 20 Sept 2011 (s 2(1) items 2, 4) Sch 2: 15 Sept 2011 (s 2(1) item 3)
Sch 1 (item 7), Sch 2 (item 43) and Sch 3 (item 15(2)–(6))
Clean Energy (Household Assistance Amendments) Act 2011
141, 2011
29 Nov 2011
Sch 3 (items 1–6), Sch 7 (items 11–36) and Sch 10 (items 31–33): 14 May 2012 (s 2(1) items 7, 15, 18) Sch 3 (items 7–58): 20 Mar 2013 (s 2(1) item 8)
Sch 7 (items 35, 36)
Social Security and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2011
145, 2011
29 Nov 2011
Sch 5 (items 11–21): 30 Nov 2011 (s 2(1) item 3)
Sch 5 (item 21)
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Participants in British Nuclear Tests) Act 2011
169, 2011
4 Dec 2011
Sch 1 (items 7–11): 4 Dec 2011 (s 2)
Sch 1 (item 11)
Family Assistance and Other Legislation Amendment (Schoolkids Bonus Budget Measures) Act 2012
50, 2012
26 May 2012
Sch 1 (items 18–24): 27 May 2012 (s 2(1) item 2)
Sch 1 (item 24)
as amended by
Statute Law Revision Act (No. 1) 2014
31, 2014
27 May 2014
Sch 2 (item 4): 27 May 2012 (s 2(1) item 5)
—
Social Security and Other Legislation Amendment (Disability Support Pension Participation Reforms) Act 2012
51, 2012
26 May 2012
Sch 4 (item 26): 20 Mar 2013 (s 2(1) item 7)
—
Social Security and Other Legislation Amendment (2012 Budget and Other Measures) Act 2012
98, 2012
29 June 2012
Sch 1 (items 3, 4): 1 July 2012 (s 2(1) item 2) Sch 2 (items 66–73, 88(1)): 1 Jan 2013 (s 2(1) items 3, 9) Sch 2 (items 85–87): 20 Mar 2013 (s 2(1) item 8)
Sch 2 (item 88(1))
Paid Parental Leave and Other Legislation Amendment (Dad and Partner Pay and Other Measures) Act 2012
109, 2012
22 July 2012
Sch 1 (items 120–127): 1 Oct 2012 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Personal Liability for Corporate Fault Reform Act 2012
180, 2012
10 Dec 2012
Sch 6 (items 32–35) and Sch 7: 11 Dec 2012 (s 2)
Sch 7
Privacy Amendment (Enhancing Privacy Protection) Act 2012
197, 2012
12 Dec 2012
Sch 5 (items 100, 101) and Sch 6 (items 15–19): 12 Mar 2014 (s 2(1) items 3, 19) Sch 6 (item 1): 12 Dec 2012 (s 2(1) item 16)
Sch 6 (items 1, 15–19)
National Disability Insurance Scheme Legislation Amendment Act 2013
44, 2013
28 May 2013
Sch 2 (items 18–26): 1 July 2013 (s 2(1) item 13)
—
Family Assistance and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2013
70, 2013
27 June 2013
Sch 3 (items 77–88): 28 June 2013 (s 2(1) item 14) Sch 3 (items 96, 97): 20 Mar 2013 (s 2(1) item 15)
—
Aged Care (Living Longer Living Better) Act 2013
76, 2013
28 June 2013
Sch 4 (items 33–55): 1 July 2014 (s 2(1) item 6)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Military Compensation Review and Other Measures) Act 2013
99, 2013
28 June 2013
Sch 3 (items 38–48, 56) and Sch 10 (items 9–11): 1 July 2013 (s 2(1) items 2, 4) Sch 11 (items 18, 19): 10 Dec 2013 (s 2(1) item 5) Sch 13 (items 9–12): 26 July 2013 (s 2(1) item 7) Sch 14, Sch 15 (items 9–12) and Sch 16 (items 2–6): 28 June 2013 (s 2(1) item 8)
Sch 3 (item 56), Sch 13 (item 12), Sch 14 (item 4), Sch 15 (item 12) and Sch 16 (item 6)
Statute Law Revision Act 2013
103, 2013
29 June 2013
Sch 1 (items 69–72): 29 June 2013 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous Measures) Act 2014
5, 2014
28 Feb 2014
Sch 1 (items 35–61): 28 Feb 2014 (s 2)
Sch 1 (item 61)
Farm Household Support (Consequential and Transitional Provisions) Act 2014
13, 2014
28 Mar 2014
Sch 2 (items 135–138): 1 July 2014 (s 2(1) item 3)
—
Social Services and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2014
14, 2014
31 Mar 2014
Sch 8 (items 7–12): 1 July 2014 (s 2(1) item 5) Sch 11 (items 32–48): 1 Jan 2015 (s 2(1) item 7)
Sch 8 (item 12) and Sch 11 (item 48)
Statute Law Revision Act (No. 1) 2014
31, 2014
27 May 2014
Sch 1 (item 71) and Sch 4 (items 56, 57): 24 June 2014 (s 2(1) items 2, 9)
—
Tax Bonus for Working Australians Repeal Act 2014
32, 2014
27 May 2014
Sch 1 (item 8): 1 July 2016 (s 2(1) item 3)
—
Public Governance, Performance and Accountability (Consequential and Transitional Provisions) Act 2014
62, 2014
30 June 2014
Sch 12 (items 255–259) and Sch 14: 1 July 2014 (s 2(1) items 6, 14)
Sch 14
as amended by
Public Governance and Resources Legislation Amendment Act (No. 1) 2015
36, 2015
13 Apr 2015
Sch 2 (items 7–9) and Sch 7: 14 Apr 2015 (s 2)
Sch 7
as amended by
Acts and Instruments (Framework Reform) (Consequential Provisions) Act 2015
126, 2015
10 Sept 2015
Sch 1 (item 486): 5 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Acts and Instruments (Framework Reform) (Consequential Provisions) Act 2015
126, 2015
10 Sept 2015
Sch 1 (item 495): 5 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Mental Health and Other Measures) Act 2014
74, 2014
30 June 2014
Sch 1–3: 1 July 2014 (s 2(1) items 2, 3) Sch 4 (items 1–41): 28 July 2014 (s 2(1) item 4) Sch 5: 30 June 2014 (s 2(1) item 5)
Sch 3 (item 11) and Sch 4 (item 41)
Social Services and Other Legislation Amendment (Seniors Health Card and Other Measures) Act 2014
98, 2014
11 Sept 2014
Sch 1 (items 5, 6): 12 Sept 2014 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Social Services and Other Legislation Amendment (2014 Budget Measures No. 6) Act 2014
122, 2014
26 Nov 2014
Sch 1 (items 194–261): 20 Sept 2014 (s 2(1) item 2) Sch 2 (item 6): never commenced (s 2(1) item 5) Sch 6 (item 2) and Sch 7 (items 6–10, 29): 1 Jan 2015 (s 2(1) item 7)
Sch 1 (item 261) and Sch 7 (item 10)
as amended by
Social Services Legislation Amendment (Fair and Sustainable Pensions) Act 2015
110, 2015
30 June 2015
Sch 3 (items 77, 78): 30 June 2015 (s 2(1) item 5)
—
Statute Law Revision Act (No. 1) 2015
5, 2015
25 Feb 2015
Sch 4: 25 Mar 2015 (s 2(1) item 10)
—
Norfolk Island Legislation Amendment Act 2015
59, 2015
26 May 2015
Sch 2 (items 351–354): 1 July 2016 (s 2(1) item 5) Sch 2 (items 356–396): 18 June 2015 (s 2(1) item 6)
Sch 2 (items 356–396)
as amended by
Territories Legislation Amendment Act 2016
33, 2016
23 Mar 2016
Sch 2: 24 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2015 Measures No. 1) Act 2015
70, 2015
25 June 2015
Sch 1 (items 175–187, 195–205): 1 July 2015 (s 2(1) items 3, 6)
Sch 1 (items 195–205)
Social Services and Other Legislation Amendment (Seniors Supplement Cessation) Act 2015
91, 2015
26 June 2015
Sch 1 (items 25–48): 20 June 2015 (s 2(1) item 2)
Sch 1 (item 48)
Social Services Legislation Amendment (Fair and Sustainable Pensions) Act 2015
110, 2015
30 June 2015
Sch 3 (items 64–76, 93–98): 1 Jan 2017 (s 2(1) items 4, 6)
Sch 3 (item 76)
Business Services Wage Assessment Tool Payment Scheme (Consequential Amendments) Act 2015
112, 2015
30 June 2015
Sch 1 (item 6): 1 July 2015 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Acts and Instruments (Framework Reform) (Consequential Provisions) Act 2015
126, 2015
10 Sept 2015
Sch 1 (items 654–662): 5 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Social Services Legislation Amendment (Cost of Living Concession) Act 2015
142, 2015
12 Nov 2015
Sch 1 (items 2, 3): 12 Nov 2015 (s 2(1) item 1)
Sch 1 (item 3)
Statute Law Revision Act (No. 2) 2015
145, 2015
12 Nov 2015
Sch 4 (items 40–45): 10 Dec 2015 (s 2(1) item 7)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (2015 Budget Measures) Act 2015
174, 2015
11 Dec 2015
Sch 1: 20 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) item 2)
Sch 1 (item 18)
Statute Law Revision Act (No. 1) 2016
4, 2016
11 Feb 2016
Sch 1 (items 26, 27), Sch 4 (items 1, 327) and Sch 5 (items 11, 12): 10 Mar 2016 (s 2(1) items 2, 6)
—
Omnibus Repeal Day (Autumn 2015) Act 2016
47, 2016
5 May 2016
Sch 7: 6 May 2016 (s 2(1) items 9–11)
Sch 7 (item 34)
Budget Savings (Omnibus) Act 2016
55, 2016
16 Sept 2016
Sch 12 (item 45–49) and Sch 18 (items 4–8): 1 Jan 2017 (s 2(1) items 14, 20) Sch 14 (items 3, 4): 1 Oct 2016 (s 2(1) item 16) Sch 21 (items 104, 106, 107): 20 Mar 2017 (s 2(1) item 23)
Sch 12 (items 46–49), Sch 14 (item 4) and Sch 21 (item 107)
Statute Update Act 2016
61, 2016
23 Sept 2016
Sch 1 (items 489–505): 21 Oct 2016 (s 2(1) item 1)
—
Higher Education Support Legislation Amendment (2016 Measures No. 1) Act 2016
74, 2016
23 Nov 2016
Sch 1 (item 29): 1 Jan 2017 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget and Other Measures) Act 2016
102, 2016
7 Dec 2016
Sch 2: 8 Dec 2016 (s 2(1) item 3)
Sch 2 (item 4)
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Digital Readiness and Other Measures) Act 2017
28, 2017
4 Apr 2017
Sch 1 (items 5, 6) and Sch 3 (items 2, 3): 5 Apr 2017 (s 2(1) items 4, 9) Sch 2 (item 9): 12 Oct 2017 (s 2(1) item 5)
—
Social Security Legislation Amendment (Youth Jobs Path: Prepare, Trial, Hire) Act 2017
42, 2017
19 May 2017
Sch 1 (item 2): 19 May 2017 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Social Services Legislation Amendment (Energy Assistance Payment and Pensioner Concession Card) Act 2017
46, 2017
19 June 2017
Sch 1 (items 8, 9): 19 June 2017 (s 2(1) item 2) Sch 2 (item 16): 9 Oct 2017 (s 2(1) item 3)
—
Social Services Legislation Amendment (Seasonal Worker Incentives for Jobseekers) Act 2017
54, 2017
22 June 2017
Sch 1 (item 9): 1 July 2017 (s 2(1) item 2) Sch 1 (item 18): 1 July 2020 (s 2(1) item 3)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget Measures) Act 2017
59, 2017
22 June 2017
Sch 2 (items 1–3): 1 July 2017 (s 2(1) item 5)
Sch 2 (item 3)
Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Legislation Amendment (Defence Force) Act 2017
108, 2017
14 Sept 2017
Sch 3 (items 47–60): 12 Oct 2017 (s 2(1) item 5)
Sch 3 (items 57, 60)
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Omnibus) Act 2017
128, 2017
30 Nov 2017
Sch 1 (items 1–5, 8), Sch 3 (items 3–5, 7), Sch 4 (items 4, 5), Sch 7 (items 15–96) and Sch 8 (items 1–10, 19, 28–33): 1 Dec 2017 (s 2(1) items 2, 4, 5, 6, 10) Sch 2 (items 1–30): 28 Dec 2017 (s 2(1) item 3)
Sch 1 (item 8), Sch 2 (item 30), Sch 3 (item 5), Sch 7 (items 32, 44, 54, 66, 78, 85, 92) and Sch 8 (items 19, 29)
Treasury Laws Amendment (Reducing Pressure on Housing Affordability Measures No. 1) Act 2017
132, 2017
13 Dec 2017
Sch 1 (item 37): 1 July 2018 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Veteran-centric Reforms No. 1) Act 2018
17, 2018
28 Mar 2018
Sch 2 (items 1–3, 216–493): 1 May 2018 (s 2(1) item 3) Sch 3 (item 2) and Sch 5: 25 Apr 2018 (s 2(1) item 8) Sch 7 and Sch 8 (items 2–8): 29 Mar 2018 (s 2(1) item 11)
Sch 2 (item 3), Sch 5 (item 6) and Sch 8 (item 8)
Social Services Legislation Amendment (Welfare Reform) Act 2018
26, 2018
11 Apr 2018
Sch 1 (items 337–354), Sch 2 (items 78–93), Sch 3 (items 93–111) and Sch 4 (items 104–110): 20 Mar 2020 (s 2(1) items 2, 4–6) Sch 5 (items 138–148): 20 Sept 2020 (s 2(1) item 8) Sch 7 (items 67–77): 1 Jan 2022 (s 2(1) item 11)
Sch 1 (items 342–354), Sch 2 (items 82–93), Sch 3 (items 98–111), Sch 4 (items 105–110), Sch 5 (items 139–148) and Sch 7 (items 68–77)
National Redress Scheme for Institutional Child Sexual Abuse (Consequential Amendments) Act 2018
46, 2018
21 June 2018
Sch 1 (item 2): 1 July 2018 (s 2(1) item 1)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Veteran-centric Reforms No. 2) Act 2018
70, 2018
29 June 2018
Sch 2: 6 July 2018 (s 2(1) item 3) Sch 4: 1 July 2019 (s 2(1) item 5) Sch 5: 30 June 2018 (s 2(1) item 6)
—
Veterans’ Entitlements Amendment Act 2018
115, 2018
25 Sept 2018
26 Sept 2018 (s 2(1) item 1)
Sch 1 (item 5)
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Omnibus) Act 2018
135, 2018
25 Oct 2018
Sch 3: 26 Oct 2018 (s 2(1) item 1)
Sch 3 (item 7)
Social Services and Other Legislation Amendment (Supporting Retirement Incomes) Act 2019
5, 2019
1 Mar 2019
Sch 1 (items 40–80), Sch 2 (items 26–52) and Sch 3 (items 52–100): 1 July 2019 (s 2(1) items 2, 3)
Sch 1 (item 80), Sch 2 (item 52) and Sch 3 (item 100)
Social Services Legislation Amendment (Energy Assistance Payment) Act 2019
28, 2019
5 Apr 2019
Sch 1 (items 8, 9): 6 Apr 2019 (s 2(1) item 1)
—
Treatment Benefits (Special Access) (Consequential Amendments and Transitional Provisions) Act 2019
42, 2019
5 Apr 2019
Sch 1 (item 1) and Sch 2 (item 39): 6 Apr 2019 (s 2(1) item 2)
Sch 1 (item 1)
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Partner Service Pension and Other Measures) Act 2019
75, 2019
20 Sept 2019
Sch 1: 20 Sept 2019 (s 2(1) item 2) Sch 2: 1 July 2019 (s 2(1) item 3) Sch 3 (items 4–6): 21 Sept 2019 (s 2(1) item 4)
Sch 1 (item 33)
Aged Care Legislation Amendment (New Commissioner Functions) Act 2019
116, 2019
11 Dec 2019
Sch 1 (items 76–79), Sch 2 (item 96) and Sch 4: 1 Jan 2020 (s 2(1) item 2)
Sch 4
Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Amendment (Single Treatment Pathway) Act 2019
122, 2019
12 Dec 2019
Sch 1 (items 26, 27, 30–32): 12 Dec 2019 (s 2(1) item 1)
Sch 1 (items 30–32)
Social Services and Other Legislation Amendment (Simplifying Income Reporting and Other Measures) Act 2020
17, 2020
6 Mar 2020
Sch 1 (items 62–71, 73): 7 Dec 2020 (s 2(1) item 1)
Sch 1 (item 73)
as amended by
Coronavirus Economic Response Package Omnibus Act 2020
22, 2020
24 Mar 2020
Sch 11 (item 41): 25 Mar 2020 (s 2(1) item 7)
—
Coronavirus Economic Response Package Omnibus Act 2020
22, 2020
24 Mar 2020
Sch 3 (item 6): 24 Mar 2020 (s 2(1) item 3) Sch 4 (items 36–38): 25 Mar 2020 (s 2(1) item 4)
—
Coronavirus Economic Response Package Omnibus (Measures No. 2) Act 2020
38, 2020
9 Apr 2020
Sch 2 (item 14): 9 Apr 2020 (s 2(1) item 4)
—
Social Services and Other Legislation Amendment (Coronavirus and Other Measures) Act 2020
97, 2020
13 Nov 2020
Sch 1 (items 25–27): 14 Nov 2020 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Health Insurance Amendment (Administration) Act 2020
106, 2020
26 Nov 2020
Sch 1 (item 30): 27 Nov 2020 (s 2(1) item 1)
—
Social Services and Other Legislation Amendment (Omnibus) Act 2020
107, 2020
26 Nov 2020
Sch 3 (item 125): 27 Nov 2020 (s 2(1) item 3)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Supporting the Wellbeing of Veterans and Their Families) Act 2020
108, 2020
26 Nov 2020
Sch 1 (items 5–8): 17 Dec 2020 (s 2(1) item 2) Sch 3: 27 Nov 2020 (s 2(1) item 4)
—
Family Law Amendment (Western Australia De Facto Superannuation Splitting and Bankruptcy) Act 2020
112, 2020
8 Dec 2020
Sch 3 (item 110): 28 Sept 2022 (s 2(1) item 1)
—
Social Services and Other Legislation Amendment (Extension of Coronavirus Support) Act 2020
140, 2020
17 Dec 2020
Sch 1 (items 49–51): 18 Dec 2020 (s 2(1) item 7)
Sch 1 (item 51)
Social Services and Other Legislation Amendment (Student Assistance and Other Measures) Act 2021
42, 2021
27 May 2021
Sch 3 (item 8): 28 May 2021 (s 2(1) item 1)
Treasury Laws Amendment (2021 Measures No. 3) Act 2021
61, 2021
29 June 2021
Sch 3 (items 5, 6): 30 June 2021 (s 2(1) item 5)
Sch 3 (item 6)
Territories Stolen Generations Redress Scheme (Consequential Amendments) Act 2021
141, 2021
13 Dec 2021
Sch 1 (item 8): 1 Mar 2022 (s 2(1) item 3)
—
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Exempting Disability Payments from Income Testing and Other Measures) Act 2021
142, 2021
13 Dec 2021
Sch 1 (items 43–63), Sch 2 and Sch 3: 1 Jan 2022 (s 2(1) item 2) Sch 4: 1 July 2022 (s 2(1) item 3)
Sch 1 (item 63), Sch 2 (item 13) and Sch 4 (item 2)
Treasury Laws Amendment (Cost of Living Support and Other Measures) Act 2022
14, 2022
31 Mar 2022
Sch 8 (items 22, 23): 1 Apr 2022 (s 2(1) item 9)
—
Social Services and Other Legislation Amendment (Pension Loans Scheme Enhancements) Act 2022
28, 2022
1 Apr 2022
Sch 1 (items 9–14, 26–38): 1 July 2022 (s 2(1) item 1)
Sch 1 (items 14, 38)
Aged Care and Other Legislation Amendment (Royal Commission Response) Act 2022
34, 2022
5 Aug 2022
Sch 6 (items 16–19): 6 Aug 2022 (s 2(1) item 8)
Sch 6 (item 19)
Treasury Laws Amendment (2022 Measures No. 1) Act 2022
35, 2022
9 Aug 2022
Sch 4 (items 36, 37): 5 Apr 2022 (s 2(1) item 9)
—
Defence, Veterans’ and Families’ Acute Support Package Act 2022
40, 2022
7 Oct 2022
Sch 1 (items 16–24): 14 Oct 2022 (s 2(1) item 1)
—
Social Security and Other Legislation Amendment (Self‑Employment Programs and Other Measures) Act 2022
42, 2022
7 Oct 2022
Sch 1 (items 18–29): 7 Oct 2022 (s 2(1) item 1)
Sch 1 (item 29)
Social Services and Other Legislation Amendment (Lifting the Income Limit for the Commonwealth Seniors Health Card) Act 2022
43, 2022
28 Oct 2022
Sch 1 (items 6–9, 11): 4 Nov 2022 (s 2(1) item 2)
Sch 1 (item 11)
Social Services and Other Legislation Amendment (Workforce Incentive) Act 2022
55, 2022
23 Nov 2022
Sch 1 (items 19–25) and Sch 2 (items 18–26): 1 Jan 2023 (s 2(1) item 2) Sch 3 (item 2): 1 Dec 2022 (s 2(1) item 3)
Sch 1 (item 25) and Sch 2 (item 26)
Social Services and Other Legislation Amendment (Incentivising Pensioners to Downsize) Act 2022
62, 2022
29 Nov 2022
Sch 1 (items 9–17): 1 Jan 2023 (s 2(1) item 1)
Sch 1 (item 17)
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Budget Measures) Act 2022
72, 2022
30 Nov 2022
1 Jan 2023 (s 2(1) item 1)
Sch 1 (item 2)
Paid Parental Leave Amendment (Improvements for Families and Gender Equality) Act 2023
4, 2023
10 Mar 2023
Sch 2 (items 32–39) and Sch 3 (items 1, 2, 4): 26 Mar 2023 (s 2(1) item 1)
Sch 3 (items 1, 2, 4)
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous Measures) Act 2023
41, 2023
28 June 2023
Sch 1 and 3: 29 June 2023 (s 2(1) item 1)
Sch 1 (item 2)
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous Measures No. 2) Act 2023
42, 2023
28 June 2023
Sch 2 (items 2–4), Sch 3 and Sch 4 (items 5–7): 28 June 2023 (s 2(1) item 1)
Sch 2 (items 3, 4), Sch 3 (item 3) and Sch 4 (item 7)
Act (Register ID)
Number and year
Assent
Commencement
Application, saving and transitional provisions
Social Services and Other Legislation Amendment (Strengthening the Safety Net) Act 2023 (C2023A00052)
52, 2023
10 Aug 2023
sch 3 (items 17-19): 10 Aug 2023 (s 2(1) item 1)
sch 3 (item 19)
Statute Law Amendment (Prescribed Forms and Other Updates) Act 2023 (C2023A00074)
74, 2023
20 Sept 2023
sch 2 (items 28-31), sch 5 (item 25): 18 Oct 2023 (s 2(1) item 3)
—
Disability Services and Inclusion (Consequential Amendments and Transitional Provisions) Act 2023 (C2023A00103)
103, 2023
28 Nov 2023
sch 2 (items 43-45): 1 Jan 2024 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Social Security and Other Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous Measures) Act 2023 (C2023A00105)
105, 2023
28 Nov 2023
sch 1 (item 12): 29 Nov 2023 (s 2(1) item 6)
—
Social Security and Other Legislation Amendment (Supporting the Transition to Work) Act 2023 (C2023A00106)
106, 2023
28 Nov 2023
sch 1 (items 6-10): 1 Jan 2024 (s 2(1) item 2)
sch 1 (item 10)
Social Services and Other Legislation Amendment (Military Invalidity Payments Means Testing) Act 2024 (C2024A00030)
30, 2024
30 May 2024
sch 1 (items 18-35, 38, 39): 31 May 2024 (s 2(1) item 1)
sch 1 (items 35, 38, 39)
Administrative Review Tribunal (Consequential and Transitional Provisions No. 1) Act 2024 (C2024A00038)
38, 2024
31 May 2024
sch 15 (items 22-39, 46): 14 Oct 2024 (s 2(1) item 2)
—
Social Services and Other Legislation Amendment (More Support in the Safety Net) Act 2024 (C2024A00066)
66, 2024
9 July 2024
sch 1 (items 17-19): 9 July 2024 (s 2(1) item 1)
sch 1 (item 19)
Crown References Amendment Act 2024 (C2024A00115)
115, 2024
10 Dec 2024
sch 1 (item 46): 11 Dec 2024 (s 2(1) item 1)
—
Administrative Review Tribunal (Miscellaneous Measures) Act 2025 (C2025A00014)
14, 2025
20 Feb 2025
sch 2 (items 81-85): 21 Feb 2025 ( s 2(1) item 2) sch 3 (items 14-17): 21 Apr 2025 (s 2(1) item 6)
—
Veterans’ Entitlements, Treatment and Support (Simplification and Harmonisation) Act 2025 (C2025A00017)
17, 2025
20 Feb 2025
sch 1 (items 38-44, 108, 176-197), sch 2 (items 14-18, 35-45, 51-62, 76-85, 109-115, 125-127, 162-166), sch 3 (items 120-125), sch 4 (items 47-69), sch 5 (items 28-45), sch 6 (items 1, 2): 1 Jul 2026 (s 2(1) items 2, 4, 5) sch 3 (items 35-107): 21 Apr 2025 ( s 2(1) item 3)
—
Aged Care and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2025 (C2025A00045)
45, 2025
19 Sept 2025
sch 3 (items 287-325): 1 Nov 2025 (s 2(1) item 6)
—
Regulatory Reform Omnibus Act 2025 (C2025A00073)
73, 2025
4 Dec 2025
sch 1 (items 116, 117), sch 4 (items 45, 58-65), sch 5 (items 51-90): 5 Dec 2025 (s 2(1) items 6, 16, 18) sch 4 (items 66-79): 19 Mar 2026 (s 2(1) item 17)
sch 4 (item 79)
Veterans’ Affairs Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous Measures No. 2) Act 2026 (C2026A00031)
31, 2026
1 Apr 2026
sch 1 (items 31, 32): 1 July 2026 (s 2(1) item 4)
—
Treasury Laws Amendment (Delivering an Efficient and Trusted Tax System) Act 2026 (C2026A00058)
58, 2026
30 June 2026
sch 6 (items 33-57): 20 Sept (s 2(1) item 5)
sch 6 (item 57)
Endnote 4—Amendment history
Provision affected
How affected
Part I
s 4A
ad No 16, 2001
s 4B
ad No 28, 2017
s 5
am No 106, 1986; No 78, 1987; No 88, 1987; No 130, 1987; No 134, 1988; No 163, 1989; No 164, 1989; No 2, 1991
rs No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 74, 1991; No 51, 1992; No 70, 1992; No 78, 1994; No 98, 1994; No 148, 1994; No 164, 1994; No 184, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 146, 1995; No 1, 1996; No 43, 1996; No 7, 1997; No 87, 1997; No 114, 1997; No 157, 1997; No 45, 1998; No 48, 1998; No 67, 1998; No 84, 1998; No 93, 1998; No 44, 1999; No 83, 1999; No 132, 1999; No 47, 2001; No 102, 2001; No 11, 2002; No 54, 2002; No 73, 2002; No 74, 2002; No 121, 2002; No 52, 2004; No 109, 2004; No 61, 2005; No 82, 2006; No 156, 2006; No 29, 2007; No 82, 2007; No 89, 2007; No 5, 2008; No 81, 2008; No 144, 2008; No 81, 2009; No 8, 2010; No 83, 2010; No 99, 2010; No 5, 2011; No 141, 2011; No 169, 2011; No 50, 2012; No 44, 2013; No 76, 2013; No 5, 2014; No 122, 2014
rs No 5, 2015
am No 17, 2025
s 5A
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 17, 2025
s 5AB
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
s 5B
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73 1991; No 208, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 27, 1993; No 118, 1995; No 60, 2009; No 83, 2010; No 5, 2011
s 5C
ad No 72, 1991
am No 70, 1992; No 228, 1992; No 78, 1994; No 98, 1994; No 164, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 128, 1995; No 43, 1996; No 157, 1997; No 81, 2008; No 5, 2011; No 5, 2015
s 5D
ad No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991; No 118, 1995; No 5, 2015
s 5E
ad No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991; No 175, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 98, 1994; No 184, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 45, 1998; No 118, 1999; No 74, 2002; No 52, 2004; No 156, 2006; No 144, 2008; No 33, 2010; No 46, 2011; No 99, 2013; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018; No 75, 2019
s 5F
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 175, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 98, 1994; No 184, 1994; No 106, 1995; No 118, 1995; No 1, 1996; No 87, 1997; No 157, 1997; No 197, 1997; No 45, 1998; No 93, 1998; No 83, 1999; No 73, 2002; No 61, 2005; No 82, 2007; No 89, 2007; No 144, 2008; No 33, 2010; No 26, 2018
s 5G
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 74, 1991; No 60, 1994; No 78, 1994; No 164, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 21, 2007; No 144, 2008; No 17, 2018
s 5GA
ad No 81, 2009
am No 17, 2018
s 5GB
ad No 141, 2011
rep No 122, 2014
s 5H
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 74, 1991; No 175, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 228, 1992; No 78, 1994; No 98, 1994; No 148, 1994; No 164, 1994; No 184, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 146, 1995; No 1, 1996; No 114, 1997; No 157, 1997; No 197, 1997; No 45, 1998; No 93, 1998; No 13, 1999; No 132, 1999; No 157, 2000; No 10, 2001; No 73, 2002; No 74, 2002; No 122, 2003; No 150, 2003; No 52, 2004; No 94, 2004; No 100, 2004; No 128, 2004; No 132, 2004; No 29, 2005; No 66, 2005; No 41, 2006; No 108, 2006; No 156, 2006; No 29, 2007; No 66, 2007; No 89, 2007; No 114, 2007; No 183, 2007; No 19, 2008; No 45, 2008; No 48, 2008; No 81, 2008; No 131, 2008; No 144, 2008; No 4, 2009; No 6, 2009; No 25, 2009; No 52, 2009; No 60, 2009; No 81, 2009; No 17, 2010; No 33, 2010; No 99, 2010; No 105, 2010; No 120, 2010; No 50, 2011; No 95, 2011; No 141, 2011; No 50, 2012; No 98, 2012; No 109, 2012; No 44, 2013; No 76, 2013; No 99, 2013; No 5, 2014; No 14, 2014; No 32, 2014; No 122, 2014; No 5, 2015; No 70, 2015; No 91, 2015; No 112, 2015; No 142, 2015; No 55, 2016; No 74, 2016; No 42, 2017; No 46, 2017; No 54, 2017; No 128, 2017; No 17, 2018; No 26, 2018; No 46, 2018; No 135, 2018; No 5, 2019; No 28, 2019; No 116, 2019; No 122, 2019; No 22, 2020; No 38, 2020; No 97, 2020; No 61, 2021; No 141, 2021; No 142, 2021; No 14, 2022; No 28, 2022; No 40, 2022; No 42, 2022; No 4, 2023; No 42, 2023
ed C184; C185
am No 74, 2023; No 103, 2023; No 105, 2023; No 45, 2025; No 17, 2025; No 73, 2025; No 31, 2026
s 5I
ad No 52, 2004
s 5IA
ad No 17, 2025
s 5J
ad No 72, 1991
am No 175, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 228, 1992; No 78, 1994; No 148, 1994; No 164, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 1, 1996; No 7, 1997; No 114, 1997; No 93, 1998; No 44, 1999; No 132, 1999; No 11, 2002; No 54, 2002; No 73, 2002; No 121, 2002; No 116, 2004; No 36, 2006; No 8, 2007; No 9, 2007; No 15, 2007; No 29, 2007; No 82, 2007; No 89, 2007; No 45, 2008; No 48, 2008; No 81, 2008; No 75, 2009; No 44, 2013; No 76, 2013; No 14, 2014; No 5, 2015; No 70, 2015; No 5, 2019; No 30, 2024
s 5JA
ad No 93, 1998
am No 11, 2002; No 121, 2002; No 94, 2004; No 116, 2004; No 9, 2007; No 29, 2007; No 81, 2008; No 115, 2008; No 145, 2011; No 44, 2013; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018; No 112, 2020
s 5JB
ad No 93, 1998
am No 11, 2002; No 121, 2002; No 116, 2004; No 36, 2006; No 9, 2007; No 29, 2007; No 82, 2007; No 89, 2007; No 81, 2008; No 115, 2008; No 145, 2011; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018; No 35, 2022
s 5JBA
ad No 116, 2004
am No 36, 2006; No 9, 2007; No 81, 2008; No 115, 2008; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018; No 35, 2022
s 5JBB
ad No 30, 2024
s 5JC
ad No 121, 2002
am No 29, 2007; No 115, 2008
s 5JD
ad No 121, 2002
am No 5, 2019
s 5JE
ad No 5, 2019
s 5K
ad No 72, 1991
am No 228, 1992; No 118, 1995
rs No 5, 2014
s 5L
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 74, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 78, 1994; No 98, 1994; No 164, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 146, 1995; No 1, 1996; No 114, 1997 (as am by No 73, 2002); No 157, 1997; No 67, 1998; No 132, 1999; No 132, 2000; Nos 54 and 73, 2002; No 29, 2005; No 156, 2006; No 15, 2007; No 82, 2007; No 89, 2007; No 183, 2007; No 144, 2008; No 76, 2013; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018; No 142, 2021; No 45, 2025
s 5LA
ad No 156, 2006
am No 82, 2007; No 48, 2008; No 76, 2013; No 126, 2015; No 55, 2016; No 17, 2018; No 116, 2019; No 140, 2020; No 45, 2025
s 5M
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 73 and 74, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 78, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 5, 2015
s 5MA
ad No 70, 1992
am No 84, 1998; No 109, 2004; No 156, 2006; No 5, 2015; No 47, 2016
s 5MB
ad No 70, 1992
am No 118, 1995; No 89, 2007; No 5, 2015
s 5MC
ad No 70, 1992
am No 98, 1994; No 164, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 132, 1998; No 94, 2004
s 5N
ad No 72, 1991
am No 70, 1992; No 98, 1994 (as am by No 164, 1994); Nos 118 and 146, 1995; No 43, 1996; No 114, 1997; No 202, 1997 (as am by No 73, 2002); No 132, 1999; No 94, 2000; No 74, 2002; No 156, 2006; No 82, 2007; No 81, 2008; No 5, 2015; No 116, 2019; No 45, 2025
s 5NA
ad No 73, 1991
am No 164, 1994; No 145, 2015
s 5NB
ad No 164, 1994
am No 164, 1994 (as am by No 43, 1996); No 146, 1995; Nos 87, 114 and 157, 1997; No 132, 1998; No 11, 2002; No 94, 2004; No 89, 2007; No 48, 2008; No 81, 2009; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018
s 5NC
ad No 114, 1997
am No 76, 2013; No 116, 2019; No 45, 2025
s 5P
ad No 84, 1998
am No 55, 2001; No 144, 2008
rep No 47, 2016
s 5PAA
ad No 109, 2004
rep No 47, 2016
s 5PA
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 81, 2008
s 5PB
ad No 78, 1994
s 5PC
ad No 183, 2007
s 5Q
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 74, 1991; No 175, 1991; No 51, 1992; No 70, 1992; No 121, 1993; No 98, 1994 (as am by No 164, 1994); No 109, 1994; No 148, 1994; No 164, 1994; No 174, 1994; No 184, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 146, 1995; No 1, 1996; No 39, 1997; No 87, 1997; No 114, 1997; No 157, 1997; No 197, 1997; No 45, 1998; No 48, 1998; No 67, 1998; No 84, 1998; No 93, 1998; No 132, 1998; No 44, 1999; No 83, 1999; No 94, 2000; No 157, 2000; No 47, 2001; No 26, 2003; No 52, 2004; No 94, 2004; No 100, 2004; No 132, 2004; No 82, 2006; No 89, 2007; No 183, 2007; No 5, 2008; No 48, 2008; No 144, 2008; No 81, 2009; No 83, 2010; No 99, 2010; No 135, 2010; No 5, 2011; No 58, 2011; No 95, 2011; No 141, 2011; No 50, 2012; No 44, 2013; No 99, 2013; No 5, 2014; No 122, 2014; No 5, 2015; No 59, 2015; No 70, 2015; No 91, 2015; No 47, 2016; No 128, 2017; No 17, 2018; No 135, 2018; No 5, 2019; No 42, 2021; No 142, 2021; No 42, 2022; No 4, 2023; No 30, 2024; No 17, 2025; No 58, 2026
s 5QAA
ad No 54, 2002
s 5QA
ad No 148, 1994
s 5QB
ad No 148, 1994
am No 81, 2009
s 5R
ad No 72, 1991
am No 70, 1992; Nos 78 and 164, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 43, 1996; No 87, 1997; No 114, 1997 (as am by No 73, 2002); No 93, 1998; No 83, 1999; No 94, 2000; No 73, 2002; No 82, 2007; No 144, 2008; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018
ed C152
s 5S
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 132, 1998
rep No 157, 2000
s 5T
ad No 73, 1991
rs No 63, 2004
am No 17, 2025
s 5U
ad No 73, 1991
s 6
am No 78, 1987; No 2, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 98, 1994; No 128, 1995
rs No 157, 1997
am No 100, 2004; No 83, 2010; No 75, 2019
s 6A
ad No 157, 1997
am No 83, 2010
s 6B
ad No 157, 1997
am No 73, 2002
s 6C
ad No 157, 1997
am No 83, 2010
s 6D
ad No 157, 1997
am No 157, 2000; No 73, 2002; No 83, 2010
s 6DA
ad No 100, 2004
s 6DB
ad No 83, 2010
rs No 70, 2018
am No 75, 2019
s 6E
ad No 157, 1997
s 6F
ad No 157, 1997
s 7
am No 98, 1994; No 128, 1995; No 157, 1997
s 7A
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 27, 1993; No 128, 1995; No 157, 1997; No 92, 1998; No 157, 2000; No 102, 2001; No 83, 2010; No 5, 2011; No 75, 2019
s 8
am No 55, 1996; No 157, 1997; No 52, 2004
s 9
am No 78, 1987; No 157, 1997; No 52, 2004
s 9A
ad No 52, 2004
am No 120, 2010; No 99, 2013
s 10
am No 73, 1991; No 144, 2008
s 10A
ad No 144, 2008
s 11
am No 130, 1987; Nos 73 and 74, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 102, 2001; No 83, 2010
s 11AA
ad No 102, 2001
s 11A
ad No 163, 1989
am No 144, 2008
s 11B
ad No 83, 2010
Part IA
Part IA
ad No 17, 2025
s 12AA
ad No 17, 2025
Part II
Part II heading
rs No 142, 2021
Division 1
s 12
rs No 130, 1987
am No 134, 1988; No 14, 2025
Division 2
Division 2 heading
rs No 142, 2021
s 13
am No 106, 1986; No 134, 1988; No 84, 1989; No 2, 1991; No 73, 1991; No 74, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 45, 1998; No 102, 2001; No 73, 2002; No 52, 2004; No 48, 2008; No 83, 2010; No 120, 2010; No 128, 2017; No 142, 2021; No 38, 2024; No 17, 2025
Division 2A
Division 2A
ad No 102, 2001
s 13AA
ad No 102, 2001
s 13AB
ad No 102, 2001
s 13AC
ad No 102, 2001
am No 63, 2004
s 13AD
ad No 102, 2001
rep No 63, 2004
s 13AE–13AG
ad No 102, 2001
Division 3
s 13A
ad No 70, 1992
am No 228, 1992; No 48, 2008; No 5, 2015
s 13B
ad No 102, 2001
am No 31, 2014
s 14
am No 134, 1988; No 70, 1992; No 102, 2001; No 63, 2004; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2025
s 15
am No 134, 1988; No 52, 2004; No 63, 2004; No 99, 2013; No 17, 2025
s 18
am No 78, 1987; No 38, 2024
s 19
am No 130, 1987
rs No 134, 1988
am No 118, 1995; No 157, 2000; No 66, 2007
s 19A
ad No 134, 1988
s 20
am No 134, 1988; No 157, 2000; No 66, 2007
s 21
am No 134, 1988; No 157, 2000
Division 4
s 21A
ad No 134, 1988
am No 128, 2017
s 22
am No 106, 1986
rs No 134, 1988
am No 93, 1989; No 228, 1992; No 78, 1994; No 73, 2002; No 100, 2004; No 167, 2007; No 128, 2017; No 17, 2025
s 23
am No 106, 1986; No 134, 1988; No 228, 1992; No 98, 1994; No 157, 1997; No 52, 2004 (as am by No 89, 2007); No 66, 2007; No 174, 2015; No 59, 2017
s 24
am No 106, 1986; No 134, 1988; No 228, 1992; No 98, 1994; No 157, 1997; No 52, 2004 (as am by No 89, 2007); No 66, 2007; No 174, 2015; No 59, 2017; No 72, 2022; No 17, 2025
s 24A
ad No 130, 1987
am No 157, 1997; No 52, 2004; No 174, 2015; No 17, 2025
s 25
am No 157, 1997; No 52, 2004; No 174, 2015
s 25A
ad No 52, 2004
am No 95, 2011; No 108, 2017
s 27
am No 106, 1986; No 130, 1987; No 134, 1988; No 164, 1989; No 2, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 52, 2004
s 27A
ad No 128, 1995
am No 94, 2004; No 89, 2007; No 17, 2018
s 27B
ad No 128, 1995
am No 89, 2007
s 28
am No 130, 1987
s 29
am No 78, 1987; No 99, 1988; No 73, 2002; No 81, 2008; No 126, 2015; No 128, 2017; No 38, 2024
Division 5
s 30
am No 106, 1986; Nos 73 and 74, 1991; No 228, 1992; Nos 7 and 157, 1997; No 68, 1999; No 102, 2001; No 167, 2007; No 81, 2009
Division 5A
Division 5A
ad No 78, 1994
s 30A
ad No 78, 1994
rs No 141, 2000
s 30B
ad No 78, 1994
am No 108, 2017
s 30C
ad No 78, 1994
am No 73, 2002; No 144, 2008; No 95, 2011; No 108, 2017
s 30D
ad No 78, 1994
am No 94, 2004; No 144, 2008; No 95, 2011; No 17, 2025
s 30E
ad No 78, 1994
am No 95, 2011
s 30F
ad No 78, 1994
s 30G
ad No 78, 1994
am No 95, 2011; No 108, 2017
s 30H
ad No 78, 1994
am No 95, 2011; No 108, 2017
s 30I
ad No 78, 1994
s 30J
ad No 78, 1994
s 30K, 30L
ad No 78, 1994
am No 95, 2011
s 30M
ad No 78, 1994
s 30N
ad No 78, 1994
s 30P
ad No 78, 1994
am No 52, 2004; No 95, 2011
Division 6
Division 6
rs No 17, 2025
s 31
am No 78, 1987; No 130, 1987; No 74, 1991; No 38, 2024; No 14, 2025
rs No 17, 2025
am No 17, 2025
Division 7
s 32
am No 130, 1987; No 16, 2001; No 61, 2016; No 17, 2025
s 33
am No 63, 2004
s 34
am No 130, 1987; No 17, 2025
Part III
Part III
ad No 72, 1991
Division 1
s 35
am Nos 106 and 130, 1986; Nos 78, 88 and 130, 1987; Nos 13 and 135, 1988; Nos 59, 84, 93 and 164, 1989; No 56, 1990; No 2, 1991
rs No 72, 1991
am Nos 73 and 74, 1991; No 164, 1994; No 118, 1995; Nos 87 and 157, 1997; No 17, 2018
s 35A
ad No 72, 1991
Division 2
Division 2 heading
rs No 17, 2018
Subdivision A
Subdivision A heading
rs No 17, 2018
s 35B
ad No 72, 1991
am No 128, 1995; No 5, 2015
rs No 17, 2018
s 35BA
ad No 17, 2018
s 35C
ad No 72, 1991
am No 128, 1995
s 35D
ad No 72, 1991
am No 63, 2004
s 35E
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 63, 2004
s 35F
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 78, 1994
am No 63, 2004
s 35FA
ad No 78, 1994
rep No 63, 2004
ss 35FB–35FD
ad No 78, 1994
Subdivision B
s 35G
ad No 72, 1991
Subdivision C
s 35H
ad No 72, 1991
am No 164, 1994; No 89, 2007; No 5, 2015
s 35J
ad No 72, 1991
am No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018; No 38, 2024
Division 3
Subdivision A
s 36
am No 106, 1986; No 93, 1989; No 2, 1991
rs No 72, 1991
am Nos 148 and 164, 1994; No 128, 1995; No 5, 2015
s 36A
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 70 and 228, 1992; No 146, 1995; Nos 87 and 157, 1997; No 89, 2007; No 149, 2008; No 81, 2009; No 5, 2015
s 36B
ad No 72, 1991
am No 78, 1994; No 94, 2004
s 36C
ad No 72, 1991
am No 175, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 1, 1996; No 33, 2000; No 17, 2018; No 26, 2018
s 36CA
ad No 157, 2000
Subdivision B
s 36D
ad No 72, 1991
s 36E
ad No 72, 1991
s 36F
ad No 72, 1991
am No 67, 1998; No 63, 2004
s 36G
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 63, 2004
s 36H
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 74 and 175, 1991; No 157, 1997; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018
s 36J
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 78, 1994
am No 63, 2004
s 36JA	 renum s 36JE
ad No 98, 1994 No 35, 1995
s 36JA
ad No 78, 1994
rep No 63, 2004
s 36JB–36JD
ad No 78, 1994
s 36JE (prev s 36JA)
am No 99, 2010
Subdivision C
s 36K
ad No 72, 1991
Subdivision D
s 36L
ad No 72, 1991
am No 164, 1994; No 7, 1997; No 73, 2002; No 89, 2007; No 5, 2015
s 36M
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 7, 1997
Note to s 36M
ad No 132, 1998
Subdivision E
s 36N
ad No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991; No 98, 1994
rs No 87, 1997
am No 132, 1998; No 42, 2022
Division 4
Subdivision A
s 37
am Nos 78 and 130, 1987; No 13, 1988; No 164, 1989; No 2, 1991
rs No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 164, 1994; No 128, 1995; No 157, 1997; No 171, 1999
s 37AA
ad No 171, 1999
am No 81, 2008
s 37AAA
ad No 171, 1999
am No 174, 2015; No 17, 2025
s 37A
ad No 13, 1988
rs No 72, 1991
am Nos 70 and 228, 1992; No 164, 1994; No 146, 1995; Nos 87 and 157, 1997; No 89, 2007; No 149, 2008; No 81, 2009; No 5, 2015
s 37B
ad No 135, 1988
rs No 164, 1989; No 72, 1991
am No 78, 1994; No 94, 2004
s 37C
ad No 135, 1988
am No 2, 1991
rs No 72, 1991
am No 175, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 1, 1996; No 33, 2010; No 17, 2018; No 26, 2018
s 37CA
ad No 157, 2000
Subdivision B
s 37D
ad No 135, 1988
am No 2, 1991
rs No 72, 1991
s 37E
ad No 135, 1988
am No 2, 1991
rs No 72, 1991
am No 171, 1999; No 17, 2018
s 37F
ad No 135, 1988
rs No 72, 1991
am No 63, 2004
s 37G
ad No 135, 1988
am No 2, 1991
rs No 72, 1991
rep No 63, 2004
s 37H
ad No 135, 1988
am No 2, 1991
rs No 72, 1991
am Nos 74 and 175, 1991; No 157, 1997; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018
s 37J
ad No 135, 1988
am No 2, 1991
rs No 72, 1991; No 78, 1994
am No 63, 2004
s 37JA	 renum s 37JE
ad No 98, 1994 No 35, 1995
s 37JA
ad No 78, 1994
rep No 63, 2004
s 37JB–37JD
ad No 78, 1994
s 37JE (prev s 37JA)
am No 99, 2010
Subdivision C
s 37K
ad No 72, 1991
Subdivision D
s 37L
ad No 72, 1991
am No 164, 1994; No 7, 1997; No 73, 2002; No 89, 2007; No 5, 2015
s 37M
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 7, 1997
am No 132, 1998
Subdivision E
s 37N
ad No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991; No 98, 1994; No 118, 1995
rs No 87, 1997
am No 132, 1998; No 42, 2022
Division 5
Division 5 heading
am No 74, 1991
Subdivision A
Subdivision A heading
am No 74, 1991
s 38
am No 88, 1987
rs No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991; No 175, 1991; No 98, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 128, 1995 (as am by No 157, 1997); No 67, 1998; No 52, 2004; No 94, 2004; No 63, 2008; No 143, 2008; No 144, 2008; No 59, 2015; No 75, 2019; No 17, 2025; No 31, 2026
s 38AA
ad No 26, 2003
am No 197, 2012
s 38A
ad No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991; Nos 70 and 228, 1992; No 164, 1994; No 146, 1995; Nos 87 and 157, 1997; No 89, 2007; No 149, 2008; No 81, 2009; No 5, 2015
s 38B
ad No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991; No 78, 1994; No 26, 2003; No 94, 2004
s 38C
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 74 and 175, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 1, 1996: No 33, 2010; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018; No 26, 2018
s 38CA
ad No 157, 2000
Subdivision B
Subdivision B heading
am No 74, 1991
s 38D, 38E
ad No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991
s 38F
ad No 72, 1991
am No 67, 1998; No 63, 2004
s 38G
ad No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991
rep No 63, 2004
s 38H
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 74 and 175, 1991; Nos 157 and 197, 1997; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018
s 38J
ad No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991
rs No 78, 1994
am No 63, 2004
s 38JA	 renum s 38JE
ad No 98, 1994 No 35, 1995
s 38JA
ad No 78, 1994
rep No 63, 2004
s 38JB–38JD
ad No 78, 1994
s 38JE (prev s 38JA)
am No 99, 2010
Subdivision C
s 38K
ad No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991
Subdivision D
s 38L
ad No 72, 1991
am No 164, 1994; No 7, 1997; No 73, 2002; No 89, 2007; No 5, 2015
s 38M
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 7, 1997
am No 132, 1998
Subdivision E
Subdivision E heading
am No 74, 1991
s 38N
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 73 and 74, 1991; No 98, 1994
rs No 87, 1997
am No 132, 1998; No 42, 2022
Part IIIA
Part IIIA
ad No 98, 1994
Division 1
s 45A
ad No 98, 1994
am No 148, 1994; Nos 118 and 128, 1995; No 171, 1999
rs No 48, 2008
s 45AA
ad No 171, 1999
rep No 48, 2008
s 45B
ad No 98, 1994
am No 164, 1994; No 73, 2002; No 52, 2004; No 89, 2007; No 149, 2008; No 17, 2018
s 45C
ad No 98, 1994
am No 72, 2002
s 45D
ad No 98, 1994
am No 164, 1994; No 157, 1997; No 52, 2004; No 17, 2018
s 45DA
ad No 157, 2000
s 45E, 45F
ad No 98, 1994
s 45G, 45H
ad No 98, 1994
am No 157, 1997
Division 2
s 45I
ad No 98, 1994
rs No 118, 1995
s 45J
ad No 98, 1994
s 45K
ad No 98, 1994
am No 67, 1998; No 63, 2004
s 45L
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 63, 2004
s 45M
ad No 98, 1994
am No 118, 1995; No 17, 2018
s 45N
ad No 98, 1994
am Nos 52 and 94, 2004; No 48, 2008; No 99, 2013; No 17, 2018; No 26, 2018
s 45NA
ad No 118, 1995
am No 63, 2004
s 45NB
ad No 118, 1995
rep No 63, 2004
s 45NC–45NE
ad No 118, 1995
s 45NF
ad No 118, 1995
am No 99, 2010
Division 3
s 45P
ad No 98, 1994
Division 4
s 45Q
ad No 98, 1994
am No 7, 1997; No 73, 2002; No 89, 2007; No 48, 2008
s 45QA
ad No 48, 2008
s 45R
ad No 98, 1994
rs No 7, 1997
am No 132, 1998; No 72, 2002; No 52, 2004; No 99, 2013; No 17, 2018
Division 5
s 45S
ad No 98, 1994
am No 7, 1997
rs No 87, 1997
am No 132, 1998; No 73, 2002; No 94, 2004
Part IIIAA
Part IIIAA
ad No 17, 2018
s 45SA
ad No 17, 2018
s 45SB
ad No 17, 2018
am No 17, 2025
Part IIIAB
Part IIIAB
ad No 67, 1998
Division 1
s 45T
ad No 67, 1998
am No 26, 2003; No 14, 2014
s 45TA
ad No 67, 1998
am No 54, 2002; No 183, 2007; No 48, 2008
s 45TB
ad No 67, 1998
am No 52, 2004; No 48, 2008; No 99, 2013
Division 2
s 45TC
ad No 67, 1998
am No 100, 2004; No 183, 2007; No 142, 2021
Division 3
Subdivision A
s 45TD
ad No 67, 1998
am No 14, 2014
s 45TE
ad No 67, 1998
rs No 63, 2004
s 45TF
ad No 67, 1998
s 45TG
ad No 67, 1998
rep No 63, 2004
s 45TH
ad No 67, 1998
am No 14, 2014
s 45TI
ad No 67, 1998
am No 81, 2009
s 45TJ–45TL
ad No 67, 1998
Subdivision B
s 45TM
ad No 67, 1998
s 45TN
ad No 67, 1998
am No 54, 2002
s 45TO
ad No 67, 1998
am No 183, 2007; No 126, 2015
s 45TP, 45TQ
ad No 67, 1998
Division 4
s 45TR
ad No 67, 1998
Division 5
Subdivision A
s 45TS–45TU
ad No 67, 1998
Subdivision B
s 45TV–45TZ
ad No 67, 1998
s 45U
ad No 67, 1998
Subdivision C
s 45UA
ad No 67, 1998
am No 179, 1999
Division 6
s 45UB–45UE
ad No 67, 1998
s 45UF
ad No 67, 1998
am No 141, 2000; No 81, 2009; No 17, 2020
s 45UG
ad No 67, 1998
am No 26, 2003; No 144, 2008
s 45UH
ad No 67, 1998
am No 141, 2000; No 26, 2003; No 81, 2009
s 45UI
ad No 67, 1998
am No 141, 2000; No 26, 2003; No 81, 2009
s 45UIA
ad No 26, 2003
am No 81, 2009
s 45UIB, 45UIC
ad No 183, 2007
Division 7
s 45UJ
ad No 67, 1998
s 45UK
ad No 67, 1998
am No 63, 2004; No 183, 2007
s 45UL
ad No 67, 1998
am No 183, 2007
s 45UM
ad No 67, 1998
am No 54, 2002; No 63, 2004
Division 8
s 45UN–45UP
ad No 67, 1998
Division 9
Division 9 heading
am No 42, 2022
s 45UQ
ad No 67, 1998
s 45UR
ad No 67, 1998
am No 183, 2007
Division 10
s 45US
ad No 67, 1998
Division 11
s 45UT
ad No 67, 1998
am No 54, 2002
s 45UTA
ad No 54, 2002
s 45UU
ad No 67, 1998
Division 11A
Division 11A
ad No 183, 2007
s 45UUA, 45UUB
ad No 183, 2007
s 45UUC
ad No 183, 2007
am No 105, 2010; No 109, 2012; No 103, 2013; No 4, 2023
s 45UUD–45UUL
ad No 183, 2007
Division 12
Division 12
ad No 26, 2003
s 45UV–45UY
ad No 26, 2003
Part IIIB
Part IIIB heading
ad No 98, 1994
rs No 17, 2018
Division 1
Division 1
ad No 1, 1996
s 46
ad No 1, 1996
am No 93, 1998; No 29, 2007; No 81, 2009; No 14, 2014
s 46A
ad No 1, 1996
am No 132, 1999
Division 1A
Division 1A
ad No 81, 2009
s 46AA
ad No 81, 2009
am No 34, 2011; No 50, 2011; No 5, 2019; No 17, 2020
s 46AB
ad No 81, 2009
am No 34, 2011; No 109, 2012; No 17, 2020; No 4, 2023
s 46ABA
ad No 5, 2019
s 46AC
ad No 50, 2011
am No 5, 2019; No 17, 2020; No 106, 2023
s 46ACA
ad No 55, 2022
rep No 106, 2023
s 46AD
ad No 50, 2011
am No 5, 2019; No 17, 2020
Division 2
Division 2
ad No 1, 1996
s 46B
ad No 1, 1996
am No 84, 1998
rs No 109, 2004
am No 47, 2016
s 46C
ad No 1, 1996
am No 121, 1997; No 84, 1998; No 77, 2001; No 94, 2004; No 109, 2004; No 101, 2006; No 15, 2007; No 47, 2016
Division 3
Division 3
ad No 1, 1996
am No 14, 2014
s 46D
ad No 1, 1996
am No 7, 1997; No 84, 1998; No 109, 2004; No 47, 2016; No 62, 2022
s 46E
ad No 1, 1996
am No 7, 1997; No 84, 1998; No 109, 2004; No 47, 2016; No 62, 2022
s 46G
ad No 1, 1996
am No 7, 1997
rep No 73, 2002
s 46H
ad No 1, 1996
s 46J
ad No 1, 1996
s 46K
ad No 1, 1996
am No 84, 1998; No 11, 2002; No 109, 2004; No 94, 2004; No 47, 2016
s 46L
ad No 1, 1996
am No 7, 1997; No 11, 2002
s 46M
ad No 1, 1996
Division 4
Division 4
ad No 1, 1996
am No 93, 1998; No 14, 2014
Subdivision A
ad No 1, 1996
rep No 121, 2002
s 46Q
ad No 1, 1996
am No 102, 2001
rep No 121, 2002
s 46R
ad No 1, 1996
am No 93, 1998; No 102, 2001
rep No 121, 2002
s 46S
ad No 1, 1996
rep No 121, 2002
Subdivision B
Subdivision B heading
rs No 121, 2002
Subdivision B
ad No 93, 1998
s 46SA
ad No 121, 2002
am No 14, 2014
s 46T
ad No 72, 1991
am No 78, 1994
rs No 93, 1998
am No 121, 2002; No 116, 2004; No 36, 2006; No 30, 2024
s 46U
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 93, 1998
am No 121, 2002; No 30, 2024
s 46V
ad No 93, 1998
am No 121, 2002
s 46VAA
ad No 30, 2024
s 46VA
ad No 36, 2006
s 46W
ad No 93, 1998
am No 29, 2007
s 46X
ad No 93, 1998
am No 5, 2019
s 46Y
ad No 93, 1998
am No 5, 2019
s 46YA
ad No 29, 2007
am No 82, 2007; No 14, 2014
s 46YB
ad No 5, 2019
Subdivision C
Subdivision C
ad No 121, 2002
s 46Z
ad No 121, 2002
am No 14, 2014
s 46ZA
ad No 121, 2002
rs No 29, 2007
am No 30, 2024
s 46ZB
ad No 121, 2002
rs No 29, 2007
s 46ZBA
ad No 5, 2019
s 46ZC
ad No 121, 2002
rs No 29, 2007
am No 5, 2019; No 30, 2024
Division 6
Division 9 heading renum Division 6
No 98, 1994
Division 6 heading
am No 98, 1994
s 47
am No 106, 1986 (as am by Nos 78 and 130, 1987); No 78, 1987; No 130, 1987 (as am by No 133, 1988); Nos 13 and 134, 1988; Nos 83 and 164, 1989; No 2, 1991
rs No 72, 1991
am No 98, 1994; No 87, 1997
s 47A–47D
ad No 72, 1991
s 47E
ad No 72, 1991
ed C130
Division 7
Division 10 heading renum Division 7
No 98, 1994
Division 7 heading
am No 98, 1994
s 48
am No 78, 1987; No 13, 1988; No 164, 1989
rs No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 98, 1994; No 73, 2002; No 94, 2004; No 81, 2008; No 17, 2018
s 48A
ad No 72, 1991
s 48B
ad No 72, 1991
am No 118, 1995; No 5, 2015
s 48C
ad No 72, 1991
am No 94, 2004; No 5, 2015
s 48D
ad No 72, 1991
am No 78, 1994; No 54, 2002
rep No 94, 2004
s 48E
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 2002; No 17, 2018
Division 8
ad No 84, 1998
rep No 47, 2016
s 49
ad No 84, 1998
rep No 47, 2016
s 49AA
ad No 151, 2001
rep No 47, 2016
s 49AB
ad No 151, 2001
rep No 47, 2016
s 49A
ad No 84, 1998
am No 118, 2000; No 151, 2001
rep No 47, 2016
s 49B
ad No 84, 1998
am No 156, 2006
rep No 47, 2016
s 49C
ad No 84, 1998
am No 151, 2001; No 89, 2007
rep No 47, 2016
s 49D
ad No 84, 1998
am No 118, 2000; No 151, 2001
rep No 47, 2016
s 49E
ad No 84, 1998
rep No 47, 2016
s 49F
ad No 84, 1998
am No 89, 2007
rep No 47, 2016
s 49G
ad No 84, 1998
rs No 63, 2004
rep No 47, 2016
s 49H
ad No 84, 1998
am No 118, 2000; No 151, 2001
rep No 47, 2016
s 49J
ad No 84, 1998
am No 141, 2000; Nos 77 and 151, 2001; No 101, 2006; No 13, 2014
rep No 47, 2016
Subdivision 6
ad No 151, 2001
rep No 47, 2016
s 49K
ad No 151, 2001
rep No 47, 2016
Division 8A
ad No 109, 2004
rep No 47, 2016
s 49L
ad No 109, 2004
rep No 47, 2016
s 49M
ad No 109, 2004
am No 81, 2008
rep No 47, 2016
s 49N
ad No 109, 2004
rep No 47, 2016
s 49P
ad No 109, 2004
am No 31, 2014
rep No 47, 2016
s 49Q
ad No 109, 2004
rep No 47, 2016
s 49R
ad No 109, 2004
am No 156, 2006
rep No 47, 2016
s 49S
ad No 109, 2004
am No 89, 2007
rep No 47, 2016
s 49T
ad No 109, 2004
rep No 47, 2016
s 49U
ad No 109, 2004
rep No 47, 2016
s 49V
ad No 109, 2004
rep No 47, 2016
s 49W
ad No 109, 2004
rep No 47, 2016
s 49X
ad No 109, 2004
rep No 47, 2016
s 49Y
ad No 109, 2004
am No 15, 2007; No 13, 2014
rep No 47, 2016
Division 9
Division 12 heading renum Division 9
No 98, 1994
s 50
am No 106, 1986; Nos 78 and 130, 1987; No 135, 1988; No 164, 1989; No 119, 1990; No 2, 1991
rs No 72, 1991
am No 98, 1994 ; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018; No 42, 2022
s 50A
ad No 135, 1988
am Nos 84 and 164, 1989; No 119, 1990
rs No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991; No 98, 1994; No 157, 1997; No 17, 2018; No 42, 2022
s 50B
ad No 119, 1990
am No 2, 1991
rs No 72, 1991
am No 98, 1994 (as am by No 43, 1996); No 17, 2018; No 42, 2022
Division 13 heading renum Division 10
No 98, 1994
Division 10
rs No 87, 1997
rep No 5, 2014
s 51
am No 106, 1986; Nos 78 and 130, 1987; No 164, 1989
rs No 72, 1991
am No 143, 2000; No 115, 2008
rep No 5, 2014
s 51A
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 5, 2014
Division 11
Division 14 heading renum Division 11
No 98, 1994
Subdivision A
s 52
am No 106, 1986; Nos 78 and 130, 1987; No 164, 1989; No 119, 1990
rs No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 74, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 228, 1992; No 118, 1995; No 146, 1995; No 1, 1996 (as am by No 157, 1997); No 7, 1997; No 157, 1997; No 93, 1998; No 132, 1999; No 54, 2002; No 52, 2004; No 94, 2004; No 116, 2004; No 29, 2005; No 156, 2006; No 9, 2007; No 82, 2007; No 183, 2007; No 45, 2008; No 48, 2008; No 81, 2008; No 44, 2013; No 76, 2013; No 5, 2015; No 70, 2015; No 128, 2017; No 5, 2019; No 62, 2022; No 30, 2024
s 52AA
ad No 94, 2004
am No 99, 2010; No 5, 2019
s 52A
ad No 119, 1990
rs No 72, 1991
am No 146, 1995; No 157, 1997
rs No 93, 1998
am No 121, 2002; No 5, 2019
s 52B
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 93, 1998
am No 121, 2002; No 81, 2008; No 128, 2017; No 5, 2019
s 52BAA
ad No 5, 2019
s 52BAB
ad No 5, 2019
s 52BA
ad No 121, 2002
am No 29, 2007
s 52BB
ad No 116, 2004
s 52BC
ad No 82, 2007
s 52C
ad No 72, 1991
am No 70, 1992; Nos 11 and 54, 2002; No 94, 2004; No 29, 2007; No 5, 2015; No 5, 2019; No 73, 2025
s 52CA
ad No 70, 1992
am No 5, 2015
s 52CB
ad No 5, 2019
s 52D
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 73, 2002
Subdivision B
Subdivision B heading
rs No 54, 2002
s 52E
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; Nos 70 and 228, 1992; No 98, 1994; No 84, 1998; No 73, 2002; No 109, 2004; No 82, 2006; No 47, 2016; No 17, 2018
s 52F
ad No 72, 1991
am No 82, 2006
s 52FAAA
ad No 89, 2007
Subdivision BA
Subdivision BA
ad No 54, 2002
s 52FAA
ad No 54, 2002
s 52FA
ad No 78, 1994
am No 157, 1997; No 94, 2004
s 52G
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 54, 2002; No 94, 2004
s 52GA
ad No 78, 1994
am No 157, 1997; No 94, 2004
s 52H
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992; Nos 78 and 98, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 54, 2002; No 94, 2004
s 52J
ad No 72, 1991
am No 98, 1994
Subdivision BB
Subdivision BB
ad No 54, 2002
s 52JA–52JD
ad No 54, 2002
s 52JE
ad No 89, 2007
am No 17, 2018
Subdivision C
Subdivision C heading
am No 73, 1991
Division 11	 (prev Division 14)
rs No 70, 1992
s 52KA
ad No 73, 1991
s 52L
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 70, 1992
s 52M
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 146, 1995; No 114, 1997; No 5, 2015
s 52N
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 164, 1994
s 52P
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991
s 52Q
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 146, 1995; No 157, 1997; No 54, 2002
s 52R
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 146, 1995; No 157, 1997
s 52S
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 118, 1995; No 146, 1995 (as am by No 157, 1997); No 157, 1997; No 5, 2015; No 110, 2015
s 52T
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 118, 1995; No 146, 1995 (as am by No 157, 1997); No 157, 1997; No 5, 2015; No 110, 2015
s 52U
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 70, 1992; Nos 118 and 146, 1995; No 43, 1996; No 157, 1997; No 54, 2002; No 5, 2015; No 110, 2015
s 52V, 52W
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 118, 1995
s 52X
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 70, 1992
Subdivision D
s 52Y
ad No 72, 1991
am No 98, 1994; No 54, 2002; No 63, 2004; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018
s 52Z
ad No 72, 1991
am No 70, 1992; No 27, 1993; No 98, 1994; No 87, 1997; No 132, 1998; No 54, 2002; No 52, 2004; No 9, 2007; No 89, 2007; No 120, 2010; No 95, 2011; No 99, 2013; No 5, 2015; No 110, 2015; No 17, 2018; No 142, 2021; No 17, 2025
Subdivision E
Subdivision E heading
am No 73, 2025
s 52ZAAA
ad No 1, 1996
am No 87, 1997; No 5, 2019; No 28, 2022; No 73, 2025
s 52ZA
ad No 72, 1991
am No 98, 1994; No 148, 1994 (as am by No 43, 1996); No 164, 1994; No 1, 1996; No 132, 2000; No 74, 2002; No 48, 2008; No 5, 2019; No 28, 2022; No 73, 2025
s 52ZB
ad No 72, 1991
am No 228, 1992; Nos 98 and 164, 1994; No 1, 1996; No 132, 1998; No 5, 2019; No 28, 2022; No 73, 2025
s 52ZBA
ad No 28, 2022
am No 73, 2025
s 52ZC
ad No 72, 1991
am No 1, 1996; No 81, 2008; No 5, 2019; No 28, 2022; No 73, 2025
s 52ZCA
ad No 1, 1996
am No 132, 2000; No 5, 2019; No 73, 2025
s 52ZD
ad No 72, 1991
am No 1, 1996; No 132, 2000; No 63, 2004; No 5, 2019; No 28, 2022; No 73, 2025
s 52ZE
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 1, 1996
am No 132, 2000; No 63, 2004; No 5, 2019; No 28, 2022; No 73, 2025
s 52ZEAA
ad No 28, 2022
am No 73, 2025
s 52ZEA
ad No 5, 2019
s 52ZF
ad No 72, 1991
am No 1, 1996; No 132, 2000; No 5, 2019; No 73, 2025
s 52ZG
ad No 72, 1991
am No 148, 1994; No 1, 1996; No 132, 1998; No 5, 2019
s 52ZH
ad No 72, 1991
am No 1, 1996; No 5, 2019
s 52ZJ
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 1, 1996
am No 132, 1998; No 73, 2025
s 52ZJA
ad No 5, 2019
am No 73, 2025
s 52ZJB
ad No 73, 2025
s 52ZK
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 1, 1996
am No 132, 1998; No 63, 2004; No 5, 2019; No 73, 2025
s 52ZKA
ad No 1, 1996
am No 5, 2019; No 73, 2025
s 52ZL
ad No 72, 1991
am No 1, 1996
s 52ZM
ad No 72, 1991
am No 1, 1996; No 5, 2019
s 52ZMAA
ad No 28, 2022
am No 73, 2025
Subdivision F
Subdivision F
ad No 11, 2002
s 52ZMA
ad No 11, 2002
am No 26, 2003; No 116, 2004; No 17, 2018
Division 11A
Division 11A
ad No 132, 2000
Subdivision A
s 52ZN
ad No 132, 2000
s 52ZO
ad No 132, 2000
am No 55, 2001; No 144, 2008
s 52ZP
ad No 132, 2000
am No 144, 2008
s 52ZQ
ad No 132, 2000
am No 81, 2008
s 52ZR–52ZZ
ad No 132, 2000
Subdivision B
s 52ZZA
ad No 132, 2000
am No 55, 2001; No 101, 2007; No 81, 2008
Subdivision C
s 52ZZB
ad No 132, 2000
am No 15, 2007; Nos 45 and 81, 2008; No 70, 2015
Subdivision D
s 52ZZC–52ZZG
ad No 132, 2000
Subdivision E
s 52ZZH
ad No 132, 2000
am No 38, 2010
s 52ZZI
ad No 132, 2000
Subdivision F
s 52ZZJ
ad No 132, 2000
am No 82, 2006
Subdivision G
s 52ZZK
ad No 132, 2000
am No 82, 2006
s 52ZZL
ad No 132, 2000
s 52ZZM
ad No 132, 2000
am No 135, 2018
s 52ZZN
ad No 132, 2000
s 52ZZO
ad No 132, 2000
am No 77, 2001; No 101, 2006; No 81, 2008
s 52ZZP, 52ZZQ
ad No 132, 2000
Subdivision H
s 52ZZR
ad No 132, 2000
am No 82, 2006
s 52ZZS–52ZZU
ad No 132, 2000
s 52ZZV
ad No 132, 2000
am No 156, 2006
Subdivision I
s 52ZZW
ad No 132, 2000
am No 54, 2002
s 52ZZX
ad No 132, 2000
am No 54, 2002; No 17, 2018
s 52ZZY
ad No 132, 2000
am No 54, 2002
s 52ZZZ
ad No 132, 2000
am No 54, 2002
s 52ZZZA
ad No 132, 2000
am No 54, 2002
Subdivision J
s 52ZZZB
ad No 132, 2000
s 52ZZZC
ad No 132, 2000
am No 17, 2018
s 52ZZZD
ad No 132, 2000
s 52ZZZE
ad No 132, 2000
Subdivision K
s 52ZZZF
ad No 132, 2000
am No 47, 2016; No 41, 2023
s 52ZZZG
ad No 132, 2000
am No 54, 2002; No 41, 2023
s 52ZZZH
ad No 132, 2000
s 52ZZZI
ad No 132, 2000
am No 156, 2006
s 52ZZZJ
ad No 132, 2000
s 52ZZZK
ad No 132, 2000
s 52ZZZL
ad No 132, 2000
s 52ZZZM
ad No 132, 2000
am No 135, 2018
s 52ZZZN
ad No 132, 2000
s 52ZZZO
ad No 132, 2000
am No 77, 2001; No 101, 2006; No 81, 2008
Subdivision L
s 52ZZZP
ad No 132, 2000
am No 17, 2018
Subdivision M
s 52ZZZQ
ad No 132, 2000
am No 81, 2008
Subdivision N
s 52ZZZR
ad No 132, 2000
s 52ZZZS
ad No 132, 2000
s 52ZZZT
ad No 132, 2000
am No 17, 2018
s 52ZZZU
ad No 132, 2000
s 52ZZZV
ad No 132, 2000
Division 11B
Division 11B
ad No 82, 2006
Subdivision A
s 52ZZZW
ad No 82, 2006
am No 34, 2011
s 52ZZZWA
ad No 82, 2006
am No 48, 2008; No 45, 2009; No 34, 2011
s 52ZZZWB
ad No 82, 2006
am No 34, 2011
s 52ZZZWC, 52ZZZWD
ad No 82, 2006
s 52ZZZWE
ad No 82, 2006
am No 144, 2008
s 52ZZZWEA
ad No 34, 2011
s 52ZZZWF–52ZZZWH
ad No 82, 2006
Subdivision B
s 52ZZZWI, 52ZZZWJ
ad No 82, 2006
Subdivision C
s 52ZZZWK
ad No 82, 2006
Subdivision D
s 52ZZZWL
ad No 82, 2006
am No 48, 2008; No 17, 2018
s 52ZZZWM
ad No 82, 2006
s 52ZZZWN
ad No 82, 2006
am No 48, 2008; No 17, 2018
s 52ZZZWO–52ZZZWQ
ad No 82, 2008
Division 12
Division 15	 renum Division 12
am No 228, 1992 No 98, 1994
Division 12 heading
am No 98, 1994
Subdivision A
s 53
am No 106, 1986
rs No 72, 1991
am Nos 70 and 228, 1992; No 5, 2015
Subdivision B
s 53A
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 228, 1992
am No 98, 1994; No 164, 1994; No 171, 1999; No 46, 2017; No 55, 2022
s 53B
ad No 171, 1999
am No 81, 2008
Subdivision C
s 53D
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 73 and 74, 1991; Nos 70 and 228, 1992; No 157, 1997; No 73, 2002; No 83, 2010; No 5, 2015; No 4, 2016; No 17, 2018
s 53E
ad No 228, 1992
rs No 157, 1997
am Nos 45 and 132, 1998; No 89, 2007; No 81, 2009
Division 12A
Division 12A
ad No 146, 1995
Subdivision A
s 53H
ad No 146, 1995
am No 146, 1995; No 132, 1998
Subdivision B
Subdivision B heading
rs No 157, 1997
s 53J
ad No 146, 1995
am No 100, 2004; No 142, 2021
s 53K
ad No 146, 1995
rs No 132, 1998
am No 115, 2018
s 53L
ad No 146, 1995
am No 132, 1998; No 115, 2018
s 53M
ad No 146, 1995
am No 87, 1997; No 132, 1998; No 141, 2000; No 52, 2004; No 100, 2004; No 81, 2009; No 142, 2021
s 53N
ad No 146, 1995
am No 132, 1998; No 115, 2018
s 53NAA
ad No 115, 2018
s 53NA
ad No 141, 2000
am No 100, 2004; No 142, 2021
Subdivision C
s 53P
ad No 146, 1995
s 53Q
ad No 146, 1995
am No 132, 1998; No 141, 2000
Subdivision D
s 53R
ad No 146, 1995
am No 87, 1997
s 53S
ad No 146, 1995
am No 132, 1998
s 53T
ad No 146, 1995
Division 13
Division 16 heading renum Division 13
No 98, 1994
s 54
am No 106, 1986; No 130, 1987
rs No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 98, 1994; No 132, 1998; No 137, 2000; No 16, 2001; No 63, 2004; No 61, 2016; No 17, 2018; No 38, 2024
s 54A
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 98, 1994; No 137, 2000; No 16, 2001; No 63, 2004; No 61, 2016; No 17, 2018; No 38, 2024
s 54AA
ad No 35, 1995
am No 137, 2000; No 16, 2001; No 63, 2004; No 17, 2018; No 38, 2024
s 54B
ad No 72, 1991
s 54BA
ad No 98, 1994
am No 118, 1995; No 99, 2010; No 17, 2018
s 54C
ad No 72, 1991
ed C130
Division 14
Division 17 heading renum Division 14
No 98, 1994
Subdivision A heading
rep No 99, 2010
s 55
am No 106, 1986
rs No 78, 1987
am No 130, 1987; No 134, 1988; No 135, 1988 (as am by No 164, 1989); No 164, 1989; No 2, 1991
rs No 72, 1991
am No 228, 1992; No 98, 1994; No 132, 1998; No 73, 2002; No 89, 2007; No 17, 2018
s 55A
ad No 72, 1991
am No 228, 1992; No 98, 1994; No 89, 2007; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018
Subdivision B
rep No 99, 2010
s 55B
ad No 72, 1991
am No 98, 1994; No 87, 1997
rep No 99, 2010
s 55D
ad No 72, 1991
am No 87, 1997
rep No 99, 2010
s 55E
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 99, 2010
Division 15
Division 18 heading renum Division 15
No 98, 1994
s 56
ad No 72, 1991
am No 228, 1992; No 98, 1994; No 132, 1998; No 73, 2002; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018; No 55, 2022
s 56A
ad No 72, 1991
am No 228, 1992; No 98, 1994; No 132, 1998; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018; No 55, 2022
s 56B
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 98 and 164, 1994; No 132, 1998; No 17, 2018
s 56C
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 78, 98 and 164, 1994; No 7, 1997; No 94, 2004 (as am by No 9, 2006); No 17, 2018
s 56D
ad No 72, 1991
am No 98, 1994; No 7, 1997; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018
s 56DA
ad No 7, 1997
am No 17, 2018
s 56E
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 70 and 228, 1992; No 98, 1994; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018; No 55, 2022
s 56EA
ad No 70, 1992
am No 228, 1992; No 98, 1994; No 35, 1995; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018; No 55, 2022
s 56EB
ad No 98, 1994
am No 118, 1995; No 99, 2010; No 17, 2018
s 56EB (second occurring)	 renum s 56EC
ad No 164, 1994 No 118, 1995
s 56EC
am No 73, 2002; No 94, 2004; No 17, 2018
s 56ED
ad No 55, 2022
s 56EE
ad No 55, 2022
s 56F
ad No 72, 1991
am No 70, 1992; No 98, 1994; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018; No 55, 2022
s 56G
ad No 72, 1991
am No 228, 1992; Nos 78 and 98, 1994; No 87, 1997; No 132, 1998
s 56GA
ad No 78, 1994
rs No 87, 1997
am No 132, 1998
s 56H
ad No 72, 1991
am No 70, 1992; No 98, 1994; No 164, 1994 (as am by No 43, 1996); Nos 35 and 146, 1995; Nos 87 and 157, 1997; No 73, 2002; No 61, 2005; No 17, 2018
s 56J
ad No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991; No 78, 1994; No 98, 1994 (as am by No 43, 1996); No 157, 1997 (as am by No 73, 2002); No 73, 2002; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018
s 56K
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 73, 1991
am No 74, 1991; No 78, 1994; No 98, 1994 (as am by No 43, 1996); No 157, 1997; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018
s 56L
ad No 72, 1991
am No 98, 1994; No 17, 2018
s 56M
ad No 7, 1997
am No 17, 2018; No 55, 2022
s 56N
ad No 7, 1997
am No 73, 2002; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018
Division 16
Division 19 heading renum Division 16
No 98, 1994
s 57
am Nos 78 and 130, 1987; No 2, 1991
rs No 72, 1991
am No 98, 1994; No 146, 1995; Nos 7 and 157, 1997; No 67, 1998; No 183, 2007; No 17, 2018; No 55, 2022
s 57A
ad No 164, 1989
rs No 72, 1991
am No 146, 1995; No 157, 1997; No 63, 2004
s 57B
ad No 164, 1989
rs No 72, 1991
am No 98, 1994; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018
s 57C
ad No 164, 1989
rs No 72, 1991
am No 98, 1994; No 17, 2018
s 57D
ad No 164, 1989
rs No 72, 1991
s 57E
ad No 164, 1989
rs No 72, 1991
am No 38, 2024
s 57F
ad No 72, 1991
s 57G
ad No 72, 1991
am No 63, 2004; No 5, 2015
s 57H
ad No 72, 1991
am No 98, 1994; No 17, 2018
Division 17
Division 20 heading renum Division 17
No 98, 1994
Division 17 heading
rs No 17, 2018
Subdivision A
Subdivision A heading
rs No 17, 2018
s 58
am Nos 78 and 88, 1987; No 13, 1988; No 164, 1989
rs No 72, 1991; No 98, 1994; No 183, 2007
am No 17, 2018; No 28, 2022; No 73, 2025
s 58A
ad No 72, 1991
am No 228, 1992; No 78, 1994; No 98, 1994
rs No 132, 1998
am No 11, 2002; No 81, 2009; No 135, 2010; No 141, 2011; No 51, 2012; No 98, 2012; No 122, 2014; No 17, 2018; No 58, 2026
s 58C
ad No 72, 1991
am No 70, 1992; No 98, 1994; No 44, 1999; No 80, 2009; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2025
s 58D
ad No 72, 1991
am No 98, 1994; No 63, 2004; No 17, 2018
s 58E
ad No 72, 1991
am No 98, 1994
s 58F
ad No 72, 1991
am No 70, 1992; No 98, 1994; No 44, 1999; No 80, 2009
s 58G
ad No 72, 1991
am No 228, 1992; Nos 68, 98 and 164, 1994; No 146, 1995
rep No 94, 2004
s 58H
ad No 72, 1991
am No 98, 1994
rep No 94, 2004
s 58J
ad No 72, 1991
am No 98, 1994; No 67, 1998; No 44, 2000; Nos 101 and 146, 2006; No 183, 2007
s 58JA
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 94, 2004
Subdivision B
Subdivision B heading	 (prev Division 20)
am No 98, 1994 rs No 17, 2018
s 58K
ad No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 98, 1994; No 164, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 43, 1996; No 157, 1997; No 94, 2000; No 81, 2009; No 17, 2018; No 58, 2026
s 58L
ad No 72, 1991
am No 98, 1994; No 17, 2018
s 58M
ad No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991; No 98, 1994 (as am by No 164, 1994)
s 58N
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 74 and 175, 1991; No 98, 1994; No 33, 2010
Division 18
Division 21 heading renum Division 18
No 98, 1994
Division 18	 (prev Division 21)
ad No 73, 1991
Subdivision A
s 59
ad No 73, 1991
am No 81, 2009
s 59A
ad No 73, 1991
am No 74, 1991; No 208, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 228, 1992; No 98, 1994 (as am by No 118, 1995); No 164, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 146, 1995; No 1, 1996; No 7, 1997; No 87, 1997; No 114, 1997; No 157, 1997; No 68, 1999; No 132, 2000; No 72, 2002; No 82, 2006; No 183, 2007; No 81, 2009; No 141, 2011; No 122, 2014; No 91, 2015; No 17, 2018; No 142, 2021; No 73, 2025
Subdivision B
s 59B
ad No 73, 1991
am Nos 74 and 208, 1991; Nos 70 and 228, 1992; Nos 118 and 146, 1995; No 1, 1996; Nos 7, 87, 114 and 157, 1997; No 68, 1999; No 132, 2000; No 73, 2002; No 82, 2006; No 183, 2007; No 81, 2009; No 141, 2011; No 122, 2014; No 73, 2025
s 59C
ad No 73, 1991
am No 1, 1996; Nos 157 and 175, 1997; No 68, 1999 (as am by No 93, 2000); No 73, 2002; No 82, 2006; No 89, 2007; No 81, 2009; No 141, 2011; No 122, 2014; No 5, 2015; No 110, 2015
s 59D
ad No 73, 1991
am No 141, 2011; No 5, 2015
s 59E
ad No 73, 1991
am No 89, 2007; No 81, 2009; No 5, 2015
s 59EAA
ad No 81, 2009
s 59EAB
ad No 81, 2009
am No 141, 2011; No 4, 2016
s 59EAC
ad No 81, 2009
s 59EA
ad No 175, 1997
am No 87, 1997; No 81, 2009
Subdivision C
s 59G
ad No 81, 2009
s 59GA
ad No 74, 1991
s 59GB
ad No 98, 1994
s 59H
ad No 73, 1991
am No 74, 1991
rs No 110, 2015
s 59J
ad No 73, 1991
am No 74, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 118, 1995
rs No 110, 2015
s 59L
ad No 228, 1992
am No 87, 1997; No 68, 1999
rep No 81, 2009
s 59LA
ad No 72, 2002
am No 81, 2008; No 81, 2009
s 59LB
ad No 17, 2018
Part IIIC
Part IIIC
ad No 164, 1994
Division 1
s 59M
ad No 164, 1994
am No 164, 1994; Nos 87 and 157, 1997; No 94, 2004; No 89, 2007; No 48, 2008; No 81, 2009; No 17, 2018
s 59N
ad No 164, 1994
am No 11, 2002; No 94, 2004
s 59O
ad No 164, 1994
Division 2
s 59P
ad No 164, 1994
am No 87, 1997
Division 3
s 59Q
ad No 164, 1994
am Nos 7 and 87, 1997; No 68, 1999; No 141, 2000; Nos 11 and 73, 2002; No 26, 2003; No 89, 2007; No 81, 2009; No 141, 2011; No 122, 2014; No 17, 2018
s 59QA
ad No 26, 2003
s 59R
ad No 164, 1994
am Nos 7 and 87, 1997; No 11, 2002
s 59S
ad No 164, 1994
am No 11, 2002
s 59T
ad No 164, 1994
am No 87, 1997
rs No 11, 2002
s 59TA
ad No 11, 2002
s 59U
ad No 164, 1994
am No 104, 1995; No 87, 1997; No 73, 2002; No 81, 2009
s 59V
ad No 164, 1994
am No 87, 1997; No 11, 2002
s 59W
ad No 164, 1994
am Nos 87 and 157, 1997; No 11, 2002; No 94, 2004
s 59X
ad No 164, 1994
rs No 11, 2002
am No 94, 2004
Division 4
s 59Y
ad No 164, 1994
am No 11, 2002
s 59Z
ad No 164, 1994
am No 63, 2004
s 59ZA
ad No 164, 1994
am No 87, 1997; Nos 11 and 74, 2002
s 59ZB, 59ZC
ad No 164, 1994
s 59ZD
ad No 164, 1994
am No 16, 2001; No 73, 2002
Division 5
s 59ZE
ad No 164, 1994
am No 11, 2002
s 59ZF
ad No 164, 1994
am No 63, 2004
s 59ZG
ad No 164, 1994
am No 87, 1997; Nos 11 and 74, 2002
s 59ZH, 59ZI
ad No 164, 1994
s 59ZJ
ad No 164, 1994
am No 16, 2001
Division 6
s 59ZK
ad No 164, 1997
s 59ZL
ad No 164, 1997
am No 89, 2007
s 59ZM
ad No 164, 1997
am No 59, 2015
Part IIID
Part IIID
ad No 81, 2009
s 60
ad No 81, 2009
am No 98, 2012; No 58, 2026
s 60A
ad No 81, 2009
s 60B
ad No 81, 2009
s 60C
ad No 81, 2009
am No 70, 2013
Part IIIE
Part IIIE
ad No 141, 2011
Division 1
rep No 128, 2017
s 61A
ad No 141, 2011
am No 98, 2012
rep No 128, 2017
s 61B
ad No 141, 2011
rep No 128, 2017
ss 61C–61E
ad No 141, 2011
rep No 128, 2017
s 61F
ad No 141, 2011
rep No 128, 2017
s 61G
ad No 141, 2011
rep No 128, 2017
s 61H
ad No 141, 2011
rep No 128, 2017
Division 2
Division 2 heading
rs No 122, 2014
Division 2
ad No 141, 2011
Subdivision A
Subdivision A heading
rs No 122, 2014
s 62A
ad No 141, 2011
am No 98, 2012; No 122, 2014; No 142, 2021
s 62B
ad No 141, 2011
am No 98, 2012; No 122, 2014
s 62C
ad No 141, 2011
s 62D
ad No 141, 2011
am No 70, 2013; No 122, 2014
Subdivision B
Subdivision B heading
rs No 122, 2014
s 62E
ad No 141, 2011
am No 70, 2013; No 122, 2014 (Sch 1 item 229 md); No 91, 2015
Division 3
Division 3
ad No 141, 2011
Subdivision A
s 63A
ad No 141, 2011
Subdivision B
s 63B
ad No 141, 2011
am No 17, 2018
s 63C
ad No 141, 2011
s 63D
ad No 141, 2011
am No 110, 2015; No 17, 2018
s 63E
ad No 141, 2011
s 63F
ad No 141, 2011
s 63G
ad No 141, 2011
s 63H
ad No 141, 2011
Subdivision C
s 63J–63N
ad No 141, 2011
s 63P
ad No 141, 2011
Subdivision D
s 63Q
ad No 141, 2011
Subdivision E
s 63R–63T
ad No 141, 2011
Division 4
Division 4
ad No 141, 2011
s 64A
ad No 141, 2011
am No 141, 2011; No 122, 2014
s 64B
ad No 141, 2011
s 64C
ad No 141, 2011
am No 141, 2011; No 122, 2014
s 64D
ad No 141, 2011
am No 141, 2011; No 122, 2014
s 64E
ad No 141, 2011
s 64F
ad No 141, 2011
am No 38, 2024
s 64G
ad No 141, 2011
s 64H
ad No 141, 2011
Division 5
s 65A
ad No 141, 2011
Part IIIF
Part IIIF
ad No 46, 2017
s 66
ad No 46, 2017
s 67
ad No 46, 2017
s 67A
ad No 46, 2017
s 67B
ad No 46, 2017
s 67C
ad No 46, 2017
s 67D
ad No 46, 2017
Part IIIG
Part IIIG
ad No 28, 2019
s 67E
ad No 28, 2019
s 67F
ad No 28, 2019
s 67G
ad No 28, 2019
s 67H
ad No 28, 2019
s 67J
ad No 28, 2019
s 67K
ad No 28, 2019
Part IIIH
Part IIIH
ad No 22, 2020
Division 1
s 67L
ad No 22, 2020
s 67M
ad No 22, 2020
s 67N
ad No 22, 2020
s 67P
ad No 22, 2020
Division 2
s 67Q
ad No 22, 2020
s 67R
ad No 22, 2020
s 67S
ad No 22, 2020
s 67T
ad No 22, 2020
Division 3
s 67U
ad No 22, 2020
s 67V
ad No 22, 2020
s 67W
ad No 22, 2020
rep No 17, 2025
s 67X
ad No 22, 2020
s 67Y
ad No 22, 2020
s 67Z
ad No 22, 2020
s 67ZA
ad No 22, 2020
s 67ZB
ad No 22, 2020
Part IIIJ
Part IIIJ
ad No 97, 2020
Division 1
s 67ZC
ad No 97, 2020
s 67ZD
ad No 97, 2020
s 67ZE
ad No 97, 2020
s 67ZF
ad No 97, 2020
Division 2
s 67ZG
ad No 97, 2020
s 67ZH
ad No 97, 2020
s 67ZI
ad No 97, 2020
s 67ZJ
ad No 97, 2020
Division 3
s 67ZK
ad No 97, 2020
s 67ZL
ad No 97, 2020
s 67ZM
ad No 97, 2020
s 67ZN
ad No 97, 2020
s 67ZO
ad No 97, 2020
Part IIIK
Part IIIK
ad No 14, 2022
Division 1
s 67ZP
ad No 14, 2022
s 67ZQ
ad No 14, 2022
s 67ZR
ad No 14, 2022
s 67ZS
ad No 14, 2022
Division 2
s 67ZT
ad No 14, 2022
s 67ZU
ad No 14, 2022
s 67ZV
ad No 14, 2022
rep No 17, 2025
s 67ZW
ad No 14, 2022
s 67ZX
ad No 14, 2022
s 67ZY
ad No 14, 2022
s 67ZZ
ad No 14, 2022
s 67ZZA
ad No 14, 2022
Part IV
Part IV heading
rs No 142, 2021
Division 1
s 68
am No 2, 1991; No 54, 1994; No 157, 1997; No 171, 1999; No 73, 2002; No 83, 2010; No 169, 2011
ed C130
s 69
am No 2, 1991; No 54, 1994
s 69A
ad No 54, 1994
s 69B
ad No 83, 2010
am No 169, 2011
Division 2
Division 2 heading
rs No 142, 2021
s 70
am No 106, 1986; No 78, 1987; No 2, 1991; No 74, 1991; No 54, 1994; No 78, 1994; No 55, 1996; No 157, 1997; No 45, 1998; No 102, 2001; No 52, 2004; No 100, 2004; No 48, 2008; No 83, 2010; No 128, 2017; No 142, 2021; No 38, 2024; No 17, 2025
s 70A
ad No 100, 2004
am No 120, 2010; No 99, 2013
s 71
am No 102, 2001
s 72
am No 98, 1994
Division 4
s 73A
ad No 141, 2000
s 74
am No 73, 1991; No 74, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 157, 1997; No 73, 2002; No 95, 2011; No 108, 2017
s 75
am No 95, 2011
s 76
am No 75, 1988; No 157, 1997; No 95, 2011; No 108, 2017
s 77, 78
am No 95, 2011
s 79
am No 78, 1987; No 52, 2004; No 95, 2011
Part IVA
Part IVA
ad No 157, 1997
Division 1
s 79A
ad No 157, 1997
Division 2
s 79B
ad No 157, 1997
am No 81, 2009
Division 3
s 79C, 79D
ad No 157, 1997
s 79E
ad No 157, 1997
am No 63, 2004
s 79F
ad No 157, 1997
rep No 63, 2004
s 79G
ad No 157, 1997
s 79H
ad No 157, 1997
am No 63, 2004
Division 4
s 79I
ad No 157, 1997
am No 89, 2007
s 79J
ad No 157, 1997
Division 5
Division 5
rs No 81, 2009
s 79K
ad No 157, 1997
am No 11, 2002
rs No 81, 2009
Division 6
s 79L
ad No 157, 1997
am No 132, 1998
s 79M
ad No 157, 1997
s 79N
ad No 157, 1997
s 79O
ad No 157, 1997
am No 132, 1998
s 79P
ad No 157, 1997
am No 132, 1998; No 11, 2002
s 79Q
ad No 157, 1997
am No 132, 1998
s 79R
ad No 157, 1997
rs No 11, 2002
s 79S
ad No 157, 1997
Division 7
s 79T
ad No 157, 1997
am No 63, 2004
s 79U
ad No 157, 1997
s 79V
ad No 157, 1997
s 79W
ad No 157, 1997
am No 38, 2024
s 79X
ad No 157, 1997
s 79Y
ad No 157, 1997
am No 63, 2004
Part V
s 80
am No 106, 1986; No 73, 1991; No 73, 2002 (as am by No 9, 2006); No 83, 2010
s 81
am No 106, 1986; No 73, 1991
s 84
am No 93, 1989; No 51, 1992; No 141, 2000; No 99, 2013; No 128, 2017; No 45, 2025
s 85
am No 78, 1987; No 130, 1987; No 134, 1988; No 2, 1991; No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 78, 1994; No 164, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 128, 1995; No 157, 1997; No 92, 1998; No 141, 2000; No 12, 2002; No 73, 2002; No 52, 2004; No 63, 2004; No 83, 2010; No 99, 2013; No 74, 2014; No 110, 2015; No 102, 2016; No 108, 2017; No 17, 2018; No 70, 2018; No 17, 2025
s 85A
ad No 52, 2004
am No 122, 2019
s 85B
ad No 52, 2004
am No 122, 2019
rep No 17, 2025
s 86
am No 106, 1986; No 2, 1991 (as am by No 118, 1995); No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 78, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 141, 2000; No 102, 2001; No 52, 2004; No 5, 2014
s 87, 88
rep No 141, 2000
s 88A
ad No 171, 1999
am No 157, 2000; No 52, 2004 (as rep by No 29, 2007); No 29, 2007; No 81, 2008; No 74, 2014
s 88B
ad No 70, 2018
s 89
am No 130, 1987; No 98, 1994; No 146, 1999; No 141, 2000
s 90
am No 78, 1987; No 171, 1999; No 141, 2000; No 73, 2002; No 99, 2013; No 128, 2017; No 70, 2018; No 45, 2025
s 90AA
ad No 17, 2018
s 90A
ad No 51, 1992
am No 73, 2002; No 81, 2008; No 126, 2015; No 128, 2017
s 90B
ad No 51, 1992
s 91
am No 106, 1986; No 52, 2004; No 128, 2017; No 17, 2025
s 92
rs No 157, 2000
am No 74, 2014
s 93
rs No 106, 1986
ed C138
s 93A
ad No 106, 1986
am No 32, 2007
s 93B
ad No 78, 1987
am No 157, 1997; No 16, 2001; No 4, 2016; No 61, 2016
s 93C
ad No 78, 1987
am No 134, 1988; No 4, 2016; No 61, 2016
s 93D
ad No 78, 1987
am No 16, 2001; No 73, 2002; No 89, 2007; No 180, 2012; No 4, 2016; No 61, 2016; No 106, 2020
s 93E
ad No 78, 1987
am No 16, 2001; No 88, 2007; No 180, 2012; No 4, 2016; No 61, 2016
s 93F, 93G
ad No 78, 1987
am No 16, 2001
s 93H
ad No 78, 1987
s 93J
ad No 78, 1987
am No 61, 2016
Part VA
Part VA
ad No 102, 2001
Division 1
s 93K
ad No 102, 2001
am No 128, 2017
Division 2
s 93L
ad No 102, 2001
am No 128, 2017
Division 3
Subdivision A
s 93M
ad No 102, 2001
am No 73, 2002
Subdivision B
s 93N
ad No 102, 2001
am No 128, 2017
Division 4
s 93P
ad No 102, 2001
s 93Q
ad No 102, 2001
s 93R
ad No 102, 2001
am No 63, 2004
s 93S
ad No 102, 2001
rep No 63, 2004
s 93T
ad No 102, 2001
s 93U
ad No 102, 2001
am No 63, 2004
Division 5
s 93V
ad No 102, 2001
Division 6
s 93W–93Y
ad No 102, 2001
Division 7
s 93Z
ad No 102, 2001
s 93ZA
ad No 102, 2001
am No 63, 2004
s 93ZB
ad No 102, 2001
s 93ZC
ad No 102, 2001
s 93ZD
ad No 102, 2001
s 93ZE
ad No 102, 2001
am No 38, 2024
s 93ZF
ad No 102, 2001
s 93ZG
ad No 102, 2001
Part VI
Division 1
s 96
am No 95, 2011; No 17, 2025
Division 2
s 97
am No 106, 1986; No 130, 1987; No 134, 1988; No 164, 1989; No 2, 1991
s 98
am No 106, 1986; Nos 78 and 130, 1987; No 134, 1988; No 164, 1989; Nos 2 and 73, 1991; Nos 70 and 228, 1992; No 68, 1994; No 157, 1997; No 157, 2000; No 5, 2014
s 98A
ad No 164, 1989
am No 73, 1991; No 44, 1999; No 132, 2004; No 48, 2008; No 174, 2015; No 142, 2021
s 98AA
ad No 48, 2008
am No 142, 2021
s 98B
ad No 164, 1994
am No 68, 1999; No 52, 2004; No 100, 2004; No 66, 2007
rep No 17, 2025
s 99
am No 106, 1986; No 164, 1989; No 2, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 164, 1994; No 7, 1997; No 68, 1999; No 141, 2000; No 73, 2002; No 52, 2004; No 100, 2004; No 66, 2007
rep No 17, 2025
s 100
am No 106, 1986; No 164, 1989; No 118, 1995; No 68, 1999; No 102, 2001; No 52, 2004; No 100, 2004; No 66, 2007; No 81, 2008
rep No 17, 2025
s 102
am Nos 78 and 130, 1987; No 78, 1994; No 68, 1999; No 94, 2004; No 120, 2010
rep No 17, 2025
s 103
am No 78, 1987; No 7, 1997; No 68, 1999; No 94, 2004; No 120, 2010
rep No 17, 2025
s 104
am No 106, 1986; No 130, 1987; No 134, 1988; No 164, 1989; No 2, 1991; No 74, 2023
s 105
am No 128, 2017
s 106
am No 52, 2004; No 5, 2014; No 14, 2025; No 17, 2025
s 107
am No 78, 1994; No 52, 2004
rep No 95, 2011
s 108
am No 78, 1987; No 78, 1994; No 52, 2004
s 110
am No 99, 2013; No 5, 2014; No 108, 2017
rep No 17, 2025
Division 3
s 111
am No 78, 1987; No 164, 1989; No 63, 2004; No 48, 2008; No 95, 2011; No 17, 2025
s 112
am No 141, 2000; No 89, 2007; No 48, 2008; No 95, 2011; No 99, 2013; No 17, 2025
s 113
am No 78, 1987; No 164, 1989; No 73, 1991; No 74, 1991; No 164, 1994; No 73, 2002; No 100, 2004
rep No 17, 2025
s 114
am No 157, 2000 (as am by No 63, 2002)
s 115
am No 78, 1987; No 164, 1989; No 73, 1991; No 164, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 73, 2002; No 63, 2004; No 48, 2008; No 95, 2011; No 17, 2025
Part VIA
Part VIA
ad No 157, 1997
Division 1
s 115A
ad No 157, 1997
am No 132, 1998; No 157, 2000; No 174, 2015; No 128, 2017; No 17, 2025
s 115B
ad No 157, 1997
am No 52, 2004; No 81, 2008; No 174, 2015; No 128, 2017; No 38, 2024
rep No 17, 2025
Division 2
s 115C
ad No 157, 1997
am No 132, 1998; No 17, 2025
s 115D
ad No 157, 1997
am No 157, 2000; No 73, 2002
rs No 52, 2004
am No 174, 2015; No 17, 2025
s 115E
ad No 157, 1997
am Nos 52 and 63, 2004
s 115F
ad No 157, 1997
am No 157, 2000; No 52, 2004
s 115G
ad No 157, 1997
am No 132, 1998; No 81, 2008; No 81, 2009; No 50, 2011; No 174, 2015; No 17, 2025
Division 3
s 115H
ad No 157, 1997
am No 17, 2025
s 115J
ad No 157, 1997
s 115K
ad No 157, 1997
s 115L
ad No 157, 1997
am No 17, 2025
ed C199
Part VIB
ad No 95, 2011
rep No 17, 2025
s 115M
ad No 95, 2011
rep No 17, 2025
s 115N
ad No 95, 2011
rep No 17, 2025
s 115P
ad No 95, 2011
rep No 17, 2025
s 115Q
ad No 95, 2011
rep No 17, 2025
s 115R
ad No 95, 2011
am No 38, 2024
rep No 17, 2025
Part VIC
Part VIC
ad No 40, 2022
s 115S
ad No 40, 2022
am No 42, 2023; No 17, 2025
Part VII
rep No 17, 2025
s 116
am No 78, 1987; No 2, 1991 (as am by No 43, 1996); No 228, 1992; No 171, 1999; No 157, 2000; No 128, 2017; No 70, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
s 116A
ad No 157, 2000
am No 52, 2004; No 81, 2008
rep No 17, 2025
s 116B
ad No 157, 2000
am No 63, 2004; No 70, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
s 116C
ad No 157, 2000
am No 70, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
s 116CA
ad No 70, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
s 116CB
ad No 70, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
s 116CC
ad No 70, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
s 116D
ad No 157, 2000
am No 63, 2004; No 70, 2018; No 38, 2024
rep No 17, 2025
s 117
am No 141, 2000; No 128, 2017; No 70, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
s 118
am No 141, 2000; No 81, 2008; No 128, 2017; No 17, 2018; No 70, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
Part VIIAA
Part VIIAA
ad No 164, 1994
s 118AA
ad No 164, 1994
am No 164, 1994; No 157, 1997; No 45, 1998; No 73, 2002; No 17, 2018
s 118AAB
ad No 164, 1994
am No 63, 2004
s 118AAC
ad No 164, 1994
am No 68, 1999
s 118AAD
ad No 164, 1999
Part VIIA
Part VIIA
ad No 208, 1991
rs No 81, 2009
Division 1
s 118A
ad No 84, 1990
am Nos 2, 73 and 74, 1991
rs No 208, 1991
am No 228, 1992; Nos 98 and 164, 1994; No 87, 1997; No 94, 2000; No 63, 2004
rs No 81, 2009
am No 128, 2017; No 17, 2018
s 118B
ad No 84, 1990
rs No 208, 1991
am No 228, 1992; No 87, 1997
rs No 81, 2009
am No 91, 2015; No 17, 2018
Division 2
Division 2
ad No 148, 1994
rs No 81, 2009
s 118C
ad No 84, 1990
rs No 208, 1991
am No 228, 1992
rs No 228, 1992; No 81, 2009
s 118D
ad No 84, 1990
am Nos 2, 73 and 74, 1991
rs No 208, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 81, 2008; No 81, 2009
s 118E
ad No 84, 1990
rs No 208, 1991
am No 157, 1997
rep No 81, 2009
s 118F
ad No 148, 1994
rep No 81, 2009
ss 118G, 118H
ad No 148, 1994
rep No 81, 2009
s 118I
ad No 148, 1994
rs No 63, 2004
rep No 81, 2009
s 118J
ad No 148, 1994
rep No 63, 2004
s 118K
ad No 148, 1994
am No 50, 2004
rep No 81, 2009
s 118L
ad No 148, 1994
am No 43, 1996; No 87, 1997
rep No 81, 2009
s 118M
ad No 148, 1994
rep No 81, 2009
Part VIIAB
ad No 100, 2004
rep No 142, 2021
s 118N
ad No 100, 2004
am No 183, 2007
rep No 142, 2021
s 118NA
ad No 100, 2004
am No 183, 2007; No 95, 2011
rep No 142, 2021
s 118NB
ad No 100, 2004
rep No 142, 2021
s 118NC
ad No 100, 2004
am No 89, 2007
rep No 142, 2021
s 118ND
ad No 100, 2004
am No 89, 2007; No 26, 2018; No 107, 2020
rep No 142, 2021
s 118NE
ad No 100, 2004
am No 26, 2018
rep No 142, 2021
s 118NF
ad No 100, 2004
rep No 142, 2021
s 118NG
ad No 100, 2004
rep No 142, 2021
s 118NH
ad No 100, 2004
am No 89, 2007; No 183, 2007; No 8, 2010
rep No 142, 2021
s 118NI
ad No 100, 2004
am No 183, 2007
rep No 142, 2021
s 118NIA
ad No 183, 2007
rep No 142, 2021
Subdivision C
ad No 183, 2007
rep No 142, 2021
s 118NIB
ad No 183, 2007
rep No 142, 2021
s 118NIC
ad No 183, 2007
rep No 142, 2021
s 118NID
ad No 183, 2007
rep No 142, 2021
s 118NIE
ad No 183, 2007
rep No 142, 2021
s 118NJ
ad No 100, 2004
rep No 142, 2021
Part VIIAC
ad No 132, 2004
rep No 81, 2009
s 118O
ad No 132, 2004
am No 5, 2008
rep No 81, 2009
s 118OA–118OD
ad No 132, 2004
am No 5, 2008
rep No 81, 2009
Part VIIAD
Part VIIAD heading
rs No 91, 2015
Part VIIAD
ad No 132, 2004
rs No 81, 2009
Division 1
s 118P
ad No 132, 2004
am No 5, 2008
rs No 81, 2009
am No 98, 2012; No 74, 2014; No 91, 2015; No 55, 2016; No 108, 2020
s 118PA
ad No 132, 2004
am No 85, 2005; No 5, 2008; No 19, 2008; No 48, 2008
rs No 81, 2009
am No 91, 2015
Division 2
Division 2 heading
rs No 91, 2015
s 118PB
ad No 132, 2004
am No 5, 2008; No 80, 2009
rs No 81, 2009; No 141, 2011
am No 98, 2012; No 74 and 122, 2014; No 91, 2015
Division 3
Division 3
rs No 91, 2015
s 118PC
ad No 132, 2004
am No 5, 2008
rs No 81, 2009
am No 141, 2011; No 70, 2013
rs No 91, 2015
s 118PD
ad No 132, 2004
am No 5, 2008
rep No 81, 2009
Part VIIB
ad No 70, 1992
rep No 81, 2009
s 118Q
ad No 70, 1992
am No 157, 1997; No 94, 2000; No 42, 2001; No 74, 2002
rep No 81, 2009
s 118R
ad No 70, 1992
am No 98, 1994; No 52, 2004; No 5, 2008
rep No 81, 2009
s 118S
ad No 70, 1992
am No 98, 1994; No 42, 2001; No 52, 2004; No 5, 2008
rep No 81, 2009
s 118SA, 118SB
ad No 5, 2008
rep No 81, 2009
s 118T, 118U
ad No 70, 1992
rep No 81, 2009
Part VIIC
Part VIIC
ad No 78, 1994
Division 1
Subdivision A
s 118V
ad No 78, 1994
am No 148, 1994; No 128, 1995; No 116, 1998; No 73, 2002; No 74, 2002; No 19, 2008; No 48, 2008; No 63, 2008; No 98, 2012; No 74, 2014; No 110, 2015; No 17, 2018
Subdivision B
s 118W
ad No 78, 1994
am No 82, 1997
s 118X
ad No 78, 1994
Subdivision C
Subdivision C
ad No 110, 2015
s 118XA
ad No 110, 2015
am No 73, 2025
s 118XB
ad No 110, 2015
Division 2
s 118Y
ad No 78, 1994
am No 110, 2015; No 73, 2025
s 118Z
ad No 78, 1994
s 118ZA
ad No 78, 1994
am No 63, 2004
s 118ZB
ad No 78, 1994
rep No 63, 2004
s 118ZC
ad No 78, 1994
s 118ZD
ad No 78, 1994
am No 63, 2004
Division 3
s 118ZE
ad No 78, 1994
Division 4
s 118ZF
ad No 78, 1994
am No 89, 2007
s 118ZG
ad No 78, 1994
am No 63, 2008
s 118ZH
ad No 78, 1994
Division 5
s 118ZI, 118ZJ
ad No 78, 1994
am No 16, 2001; No 63, 2004
s 118ZJA
ad No 116, 1998
Division 6
s 118ZK
ad No 78, 1994
am No 63, 2008
s 118ZL–118ZQ
ad No 78, 1994
s 118ZR
ad No 78, 1994
am No 63, 2008
Division 7
s 118ZS
ad No 78, 1994
s 118ZT
ad No 78, 1994
am No 63, 2004
s 118ZU
ad No 78, 1994
s 118ZV
ad No 78, 1994
s 118ZW
ad No 78, 1994
s 118ZX
ad No 78, 1994
am No 38, 2024
s 118ZY
ad No 78, 1994
s 118ZZ
ad No 78, 1994
am No 63, 2004
Division 8
s 118ZAA
ad No 78, 1994
rs No 116, 1998
renum s 118ZZA
No 73, 2002
s 118ZZA
am No 73, 2002
118ZAA-1
ad No 78, 1994
renum 118ZZA-1
No 73, 2002
118ZZA-1
am No 122, 2014
118ZAA-2
ad No 78, 1994
rs No 116, 1998
renum 118ZZA-2
No 73, 2002
118ZAA-3
ad No 78, 1994
rs No 116, 1998
renum 118ZZA-3
No 73, 2002
118ZZA-3
am No 27, 2009; No 60, 2009; No 132, 2017
118ZAA-4
ad No 78, 1994
rs No 116, 1998
renum 118ZZA-4
No 73, 2002
118ZAA-5
ad No 116, 1998
renum 118ZZA-5
No 73, 2002
118ZZA-5
am No 81, 2008; No 5, 2011
118ZAA-6
ad No 116, 1998
renum 118ZZA-6
No 73, 2002
118ZAA-7
ad No 116, 1998
renum 118ZZA-7
No 73, 2002
118ZZA-7
rs No 27, 2009
118ZAA-8
ad No 116, 1998
renum 118ZZA-8
No 73, 2002
118ZAA-9
ad No 116, 1998
renum 118ZZA-9
No 73, 2002
118ZAA-10
ad No 116, 1998
renum 118ZZA-10
No 73, 2002
118ZZA-10A
ad No 122, 2014
118ZZA-10B
ad No 122, 2014
118ZAA-11
ad No 116, 1998
am No 68, 1999; No 42, 2001
renum 118ZZA-11
No 73, 2002
118ZZA-11
am No 98, 2014; No 122, 2014; No 43, 2022
118ZZA-12
ad No 122, 2014
Part VIID
ad No 41, 2006
rep No 128, 2017
s 118ZZB–118ZZF
ad No 41, 2006
rep No 128, 2017
Part VIIE
ad No 66, 2007
rep No 128, 2017
s 118ZZG–118ZZK
ad No 66, 2007
rep No 128, 2017
Part VIIF
ad No 19, 2008
rep No 128, 2017
s 118ZZL–118ZZP
ad No 19, 2008
rep No 128, 2017
Part VIIG
ad No 131, 2008
rep No 128, 2017
s 118ZZQ–118ZZU
ad No 131, 2008
rep No 128, 2017
Part VIIH
ad No 50, 2012
rep No 128, 2017
s 118ZZVA–118ZZVC
ad No 50, 2012
rep No 128, 2017
s 118ZZVD, 118ZZVE
ad No 50, 2012
rep No 128, 2017
s 118ZZVF–118ZZVI
ad No 50, 2012
rep No 128, 2017
Part VIII
s 119
am Nos 78 and 130, 1987; No 73, 1991; No 164, 1994 (as am by No 43, 1996); No 157, 1997; No 67, 1998; No 183, 2007; No 48, 2008; No 95, 2011; No 17, 2018; No 17, 2025
s 120
am No 98, 1994; No 52, 2004; No 83, 2010
s 120A
ad No 98, 1994
am No 83, 2010; No 17, 2025
s 120B
ad No 98, 1994
am No 83, 2010; No 17, 2025
s 120C
ad No 17, 2025
s 121
am No 164, 1989; No 2, 1991; No 73, 1991; No 132, 1998
rs No 157, 2000
am No 100, 2004; No 132, 2004; No 81, 2009; No 135, 2010; No 95, 2011; No 141, 2011; No 122, 2014; No 142, 2021; No 17, 2025
s 122
am No 130, 1987; No 70, 1992; No 44, 1999; No 63, 2004; No 80, 2009; No 5, 2015; No 17, 2018
s 122A
ad No 164, 1989
am No 70, 1992; No 44, 1999; Nos 100 and 132, 2004; Nos 80 and 81, 2009; No 99, 2013; No 91, 2015
s 122AA
ad No 99, 2013
am No 17, 2025
s 122B
ad No 94, 2004
am No 81, 2008
s 122C
ad No 100, 2004
rs No 80, 2009
s 122D
ad No 100, 2004
am No 100, 2004; No 183, 2007
rep No 142, 2021
s 122E
ad No 100, 2004
rep No 100, 2004
ad No 146, 2006
rep No 142, 2021
s 123
rs No 130, 1987
am Nos 73 and 74, 1991; No 146, 1995; No 144, 2008
s 123A
ad No 130, 1987
am No 146, 1995
s 123B
ad No 130, 1987
am No 146, 1995
s 123C
ad No 130, 1987
am No 146, 1995
s 123D
ad No 130, 1987
am No 73, 1991; No 146, 1995
s 123E
ad No 130, 1987
am No 146, 1995
s 124
am No 78, 1987; No 73, 1991
s 125
am No 78, 1987; No 164, 1989; No 73, 1991; No 130, 2007; No 149, 2008
s 126
am No 73, 1991; No 164, 1994; No 43, 1996; No 17, 2018; No 17, 2025
s 126A
ad No 93, 1989
am No 73, 1991; No 164, 1994
s 127
am No 78, 1987; No 2, 1991; No 137, 2000; No 16, 2001; No 63, 2004; No 141, 2011; No 28, 2017; No 38, 2024
s 128
am No 88, 1987; No 157, 1997; No 16, 2001; No 63, 2004; No 59, 2015
ed C130
am No 61, 2016
s 128A
ad No 119, 1990
am Nos 2, 73 and 74, 1991; No 70, 1992; Nos 78 and 164, 1994; Nos 35 and 118, 1995; No 39, 1997; No 179, 1999; No 73, 2002; No 132, 2004; Nos 63 and 81, 2008; No 81, 2009; No 95, 2011; No 17, 2018; No 17, 2025
s 129A
ad No 120, 2010
am No 17, 2025
s 130
am No 88, 1987; No 28, 2017; No 34, 2022
s 131
am No 34, 2022; No 103, 2023; No 17, 2025; No 45, 2025
s 132
am No 78, 1987; No 73, 1991; No 164, 1994; No 73, 2002; No 63, 2004; No 81, 2008; No 120, 2010; No 17, 2018; No 40, 2022; No 38, 2024; No 17, 2025
s 132A
ad No 134, 1988
rep No 17, 2025
Part IX
Part IX heading
rs No 17, 2025
Division 1 heading
rep No 17, 2025
s 133
am No 164, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 74, 2014; No 17, 2025
s 133A
ad No 74, 2014
rs No 128, 2017
rep No 17, 2025
Division 2
rep No 17, 2025
s 134
rs No 17, 2025
am No 14, 2025; No 17, 2025
Division 3
Division 3 heading
rep No 17, 2025
s 135
am No 78, 1987; No 130, 1987; No 93, 1989; No 228, 1992; No 17, 2025
s 135A
ad No 40, 2022
rep No 17, 2025
s 136
am No 63, 2004; No 40, 2022; No 17, 2025
s 137
am No 40, 2022
rs No 17, 2025
s 137A
ad No 128, 2017
am No 40, 2022
rep No 17, 2025
s 138
am No 130, 1987
rep No 17, 2025
s 138A
ad No 74, 2014
rep No 17, 2025
s 139
am No 134, 1988; No 74, 2014
rep No 17, 2025
s 140
am No 78, 1987; No 2, 1991
rs No 74, 2014
am No 38, 2024
rep No 17, 2025
s 140A
ad No 141, 2000
am No 74, 2014
rep No 17, 2025
Division 4
rep No 17, 2025
s 141
am No 141, 2000; No 74, 2014
rep No 17, 2025
s 141A
ad No 74, 2014
rep No 17, 2025
s 142
rs No 74, 2014
am No 128, 2017
rep No 17, 2025
s 143
rep No 17, 2025
s 144
rep No 17, 2025
s 145
rep No 74, 2014
Division 4A
ad No 74, 2014
rep No 17, 2025
s 145A
ad No 74, 2014
rep No 17, 2025
s 145B
ad No 74, 2014
rep No 17, 2025
s 145C
ad No 74, 2014
am No 128, 2017
rep No 17, 2025
s 145D
ad No 74, 2014
rep No 17, 2025
s 145E
ad No 74, 2014
rep No 17, 2025
s 145F
ad No 74, 2014
rep No 17, 2025
s 145G
ad No 74, 2014
rep No 17, 2025
Division 5
Division 5 heading
rep No 17, 2025
s 146
rep No 17, 2025
s 147
am No 70, 1992; No 74, 2014
rep No 17, 2025
s 148
am No 78, 1987; No 2, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 63, 2004; No 74, 2014; No 128, 2017
rep No 17, 2025
s 149
rep No 17, 2025
s 150
rep No 17, 2025
s 151
rep No 17, 2025
s 152
rep No 17, 2025
s 153
rep No 17, 2025
s 154
am No 38, 2024
s 155
rs No 74, 2014
rep No 17, 2025
s 155AA–155AC
ad No 70, 1992
rep No 74, 2014
s 155A
ad No 2, 1991
am No 70, 1992; No 74, 2014; No 38, 2024
rep No 17, 2025
Division 6 heading
rep No 17, 2025
s 156
rs No 78, 1987
am No 17, 2025
s 157
rs No 78, 1987
am No 74, 2014; No 17, 2025
Division 7
rep No 17, 2025
s 158
am No 164, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
s 159
am No 70, 1992; No 159, 2001
rep No 17, 2025
s 160
am No 43, 1996; No 73, 2002
rep No 17, 2025
s 161
am No 73, 2002
rep No 17, 2025
s 162
rs No 122, 1991
am No 146, 1999
rep No 17, 2025
s 163
rep No 17, 2025
s 164
am No 122, 1991; No 94, 1992; No 26, 2008; No 58, 2011
rep No 17, 2025
s 165
rep No 17, 2025
Division 8
rep No 17, 2025
s 166
am No 70, 1992; No 141, 2000; No 74, 2014
rep No 17, 2025
s 167
am No 74, 2014
rep No 17, 2025
s 168
am No 16, 2001; No 61, 2016
rep No 17, 2025
s 169
am No 16, 2001; No 61, 2016
rep No 17, 2025
s 170
rs No 74, 2014
rep No 17, 2025
s 170A
ad No 164, 1994
am No 118, 1995; No 141, 2000; No 63, 2004
rep No 17, 2025
s 170B
ad No 164, 1994
am No 63, 2004; No 120, 2010
rep No 17, 2025
s 170C
ad No 164, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
s 171
rep No 17, 2025
s 172
am No 146, 1999; No 74, 2014
rep No 17, 2025
s 173
rep No 17, 2025
Part X
Part X heading
am No 38, 2024
s 174
am No 73, 1991; No 38, 2024; No 14, 2025; No 17, 2025
s 175
am No 78, 1987; No 130, 1987; No 2, 1991; No 73, 1991; No 78, 1994; No 157, 1997; No 157, 2000; No 102, 2001; No 48, 2008; No 141, 2011; No 74, 2014; No 5, 2015; No 70, 2018; No 40, 2022; No 38, 2024; No 17, 2025
s 176
am No 78, 1987; No 130, 1987; No 73, 1991; No 78, 1994; No 164, 1994; No 141, 2011; No 74, 2014; No 38, 2024; No 14, 2025; No 17, 2025
s 177
am No 78, 1987; No 73, 1991; No 78, 1994; No 164, 1994; No 141, 2011; No 38, 2024; No 14, 2025; No 17, 2025
s 178
am No 164, 1994; No 38, 2024; No 17, 2025
Part XI
rep No 17, 2025
Division 1
rep No 17, 2025
s 179
rep No 17, 2025
s 179A
ad No 62, 2014
rep No 17, 2025
s 180
rep No 17, 2025
s 180A
ad No 98, 1994
am No 81, 2008; No 83, 2010
rep No 17, 2025
s 181
am No 130, 1987
rep No 17, 2025
Division 2
rep No 17, 2025
s 182
am No 159, 2001; No 108, 2020
rep No 17, 2025
s 183
rep No 17, 2025
s 184
am No 146, 1999; No 5, 2011
rep No 17, 2025
s 185
am No 43, 1996
rep No 17, 2025
s 186
rs No 122, 1991
am No 146, 1999
rep No 17, 2025
s 187
rep No 17, 2025
s 188
am No 94, 1992; No 26, 2008; No 58, 2011; No 62, 2014
rep No 17, 2025
s 189
am No 78, 1987; No 73, 1991; No 164, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
s 190
rep No 62, 2014
s 191
rep No 17, 2025
s 192
rep No 17, 2025
s 193
am No 146, 1999; No 5, 2011
rep No 17, 2025
s 194
rep No 17, 2025
s 195
am No 108, 2020
rep No 17, 2025
Division 3
rep No 17, 2025
s 196
am No 146, 1999
rep No 17, 2025
Part XIA
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
Division 1
rep No 17, 2025
s 196A
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
s 196AA
ad No 62, 2014
rep No 17, 2025
s 196B
ad No 98, 1994
am No 141, 2000; No 52, 2004; No 29, 2007; No 81, 2008; No 83, 2010; No 126, 2015; No 17, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
s 196C
ad No 98, 1994
am No 29, 2007
rep No 17, 2025
s 196CA
ad No 141, 2000
rep No 17, 2025
s 196CB
ad No 141, 2000
rep No 17, 2025
s 196D
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 81, 2008
s 196E
ad No 98, 1994
am No 141, 2000; Nos 52 and 63, 2004; No 29, 2007
rep No 17, 2025
s 196F
ad No 98, 1994
am No 52, 2004
rep No 17, 2025
s 196G
ad No 98, 1994
am No 29, 2007
rep No 17, 2025
s 196H
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
s 196I
ad No 98, 1994
am No 52, 2004
rep No 17, 2025
s 196J
ad No 98, 1994
am No 52, 2004; No 120, 2010
rep No 17, 2025
s 196K
ad No 98, 1994
am No 120, 2010; No 17, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
s 196KA
ad No 52, 2004
rep No 17, 2025
Division 2
rep No 17, 2025
s 196L
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
s 196M
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
s 196N
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
s 196O
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
s 196P
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
s 196Q
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
s 196R
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
s 196S
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
Division 3
rep No 17, 2025
s 196T
ad No 98, 1994
am No 146, 1999
rep No 17, 2025
s 196U
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
Division 4
ad No 41, 2023
rep No 17, 2025
s 196UA
ad No 41, 2023
rep No 17, 2025
Part XIB
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
Division 1
rep No 17, 2025
s 196V
ad No 98, 1994
am No 128, 2017; No 17, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
s 196VA
ad No 62, 2014
am No 17, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
s 196W
ad No 98, 1994
am No 140, 2003; No 52, 2004; No 29, 2007; No 120, 2010; No 126, 2015; No 17, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
s 196X
ad No 98, 1994
am No 52, 2004; No 17, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
s 196Y
ad No 98, 1994
am No 52, 2004; No 63, 2004; No 29, 2007; No 120, 2010; No 128, 2017
rep No 17, 2025
s 196Z
ad No 98, 1994
am No 63, 2004; No 29, 2007; No 128, 2017
rep No 17, 2025
s 196ZA
ad No 98, 1994
am No 52, 2004; No 17, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
s 196ZB
ad No 98, 1994
am No 29, 2007; No 120, 2010; No 128, 2017; No 17, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
s 196ZC
ad No 98, 1994
am No 17, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
s 196ZD
ad No 98, 1994
am No 52, 2004
rep No 17, 2025
Division 2
rep No 17, 2025
s 196ZE
ad No 98, 1994
am No 4, 2016; No 128, 2017; No 17, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
s 196ZF
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
s 196ZG
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
s 196ZH
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
s 196ZI
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
s 196ZJ
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 17, 2025
s 196ZK
ad No 98, 1994
am No 17, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
s 196ZL
ad No 98, 1994
am No 43, 1996
rep No 17, 2025
Division 3
rep No 17, 2025
s 196ZM
ad No 98, 1994
am No 146, 1999; No 17, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
Division 4
rep No 17, 2025
Division 4 heading
ad No 73, 2002
rep No 17, 2025
s 196ZN
ad No 164, 1994
am No 141, 2000; No 63, 2004; No 128, 2017
rep No 17, 2025
s 196ZO
ad No 164, 1994
am No 63, 2004; No 120, 2010; No 128, 2017
rep No 17, 2025
s 196ZP
ad No 164, 1994
am No 128, 2017
rep No 17, 2025
s 196ZQ
ad No 128, 2017
rep No 17, 2025
Division 5
ad No 128, 2017
rep No 17, 2025
s 196ZR
ad No 128, 2017
rep No 17, 2025
Part XII
s 197A
ad No 128, 1995
s 197
am No 17, 2025
s 198
am No 106, 1986; No 78, 1987; No 134, 1988; No 83, 1989; No 164, 1989; No 84, 1990; No 2, 1991; No 73, 1991; No 74, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 118, 1995; No 146, 1995; No 43, 1996; No 69, 1998; No 100, 2004; No 167, 2007; No 81, 2009; No 141, 2011; No 122, 2014; No 5, 2015; No 145, 2015, No 142, 2021
s 198A
ad No 83, 1989
am No 145, 2015
s 198D
ad No 2, 1991
am No 96, 2011; No 141, 2011; No 145, 2015; No 17, 2025
s 198E
ad No 132, 2004
am No 132, 2004; No 89, 2007; No 5, 2008
rep No 81, 2009
ad No 141, 2011
s 198F
ad No 70, 1992
am No 5, 2008
rs No 81, 2009
s 198FA
ad No 94, 2004
am No 145, 2015
rep No 17, 2025
s 198FAA
ad No 98, 2014
s 198FB
ad No 81, 2009
s 198G
ad No 68, 1999
s 198GA
ad No 68, 1999 (as am by No 93, 2000)
am No 103, 2013
s 198H
ad No 68, 1999
s 198J–198M
ad No 68, 1999
s 198MA
ad No 141, 2011
s 198MB
ad No 141, 2011
s 198N
ad No 80, 2009
s 199
am No 78, 1987; No 98, 1994 (as am by No 164, 1994); No 157, 1997; No 141, 2000; No 100, 2004; No 29, 2007; No 81, 2008; No 99. 2013; No 103, 2013; No 128, 2017; No 17, 2018; No 142, 2021; No 40, 2022; No 17, 2025
s 200
rep No 17, 2025
s 201
am No 134, 1988; No 73, 1991
rep No 17, 2025
s 202
am No 130, 1987; No 134, 1988; No 17, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
s 202A
ad No 134, 1988
am No 17, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
s 202B
ad No 134, 1988
am No 17, 2018
rep No 17, 2025
s 203
am No 81, 2008
rs No 128, 2017
am No 128, 2017; No 42, 2019; No 17, 2025
s 204
am No 78, 1987
rep No 141, 2000
ad No 99, 2010
am No 17, 2018
s 205
am No 78, 1987; No 88, 1987; No 130, 1987; No 35, 1988; No 134, 1988; No 164, 1989; No 2, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 68, 1994; No 78, 1994; No 146, 1995; No 157, 1997; No 45, 1998; No 47, 2001; No 30, 2003; No 99, 2010; No 105, 2010; No 109, 2012; No 99, 2013; No 5, 2014; No 4, 2023
s 205AAA
ad No 47, 2001
s 205AAB
ad No 47, 2001
s 205AAC
ad No 47, 2001
s 205AAD
ad No 47, 2001
s 205AAE
ad No 47, 2001
rs No 55, 2016
s 205AA
ad No 134, 1988
am No 228, 1992; No 17, 2018
s 205AB
ad No 47, 2001
s 205A
ad No 88, 1987
am No 16, 2001; No 4, 2016; No 61, 2016
s 205B
ad No 134, 1988
am No 228, 1992
s 206
am No 47, 2001
s 208
am No 16, 2001; No 94, 2004; No 61, 2016; No 17, 2018
s 210
ad No 35, 1995
s 210A
ad No 35, 1995
am No 67, 1998
ed C138
s 211
am No 164, 1989
ed C138
s 212
am No 78, 1987; No 146, 1999; No 17, 2025
s 213
am No 78, 1987; No 146, 1999; No 141, 2000 (as am by No 73, 2002); No 73, 2002; No 169, 2011; No 128, 2017
rep No 17, 2025
s 214
am No 146, 1999; No 141, 2000 (as am by No 73, 2002); No 73, 2002; No 28, 2017; No 128, 2017
s 214A
ad No 84, 1989
s 215
am No 17, 2025
rep No 17, 2025
s 216
am No 28, 2017; No 38, 2024
Schedule 1
Schedule 1
am No 106, 1986
Schedule 2
Schedule 2
am No 78, 1987 (as am by No 157, 1997); No 93, 1989; No 2, 1991; No 208, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 27, 1993; No 78, 1994; No 35, 1995; No 118, 1995; No 157, 1997; No 157, 2000; No 60, 2009; No 83, 2010; No 74, 2014
ed C142
Schedule 2A
Schedule 2A
ad No 164, 1994
am No 118, 1995
Schedule 3
Schedule 3
rs No 157, 1997
Schedule 4
am No 115, 2024
rep No 17, 2025
Schedule 5
Schedule 5
ad No 128, 1995
am No 146, 1995; No 1, 1996; No 7, 1997; No 87, 1997; No 157, 1997; No 45, 1998; No 93, 1998; No 132, 1998; No 132, 1999; No 157, 2000; No 11, 2002; No 54, 2002; No 73, 2002; No 26, 2003; No 100, 2005; No 156, 2006; No 82, 2007; No 81, 2009; No 50, 2011; No 141, 2011; No 98, 2012; No 76, 2013; No 122, 2014; No 47, 2016; No 26, 2018
ed C156
am No 45, 2025; No 58, 2026
Schedule 6
Schedule 6 heading
rs No 17, 2018
Schedule 6
ad No 87, 1997
am No 157, 1997; No 45, 1998; No 93, 1998; No 132, 1998; No 13, 1999; No 68, 1999 (as am by No 8, 2010); No 83, 1999; No 94, 2000; No 141, 2000; No 11, 2002; No 72, 2002; No 73, 2002; No 74, 2002; No 52, 2004; No 94, 2004; No 100, 2004; No 61, 2005; No 146, 2006; No 9, 2007; No 29, 2007; No 82, 2007; No 89, 2007; No 81, 2009; No 33, 2010; No 5, 2011; No 141, 2011; No 98, 2012; No 70, 2013; No 5, 2014; No 14, 2014; No 122, 2014; No 5, 2015; No 110, 2015; No 17, 2018; No 5, 2019
ed C155
am No 142, 2021; No 42, 2023; No 52, 2023; No 66, 2024; No 73, 2025; No 58, 2026
Endnote 5—Editorial changes
In preparing this compilation for registration, the following kinds of editorial change(s) were made under the Legislation Act 2003.
Subsection 115L(1)
Kind of editorial change
Give effect to the misdescribed amendment as intended
Details of editorial change
Schedule 1 item 195 of the Veterans’ Entitlements, Treatment and Support (Simplification and Harmonisation) Act 2025 instructs to omit “rehabilitation program under the Veterans’ Vocational Rehabilitation Scheme” and substitute “VEA rehabilitation program (within the meaning of section 115H)” in subsection 115L(1).
The text “rehabilitation program under the Veterans’ Vocational Rehabilitation Scheme” does not appear in subsection 115L(1). However, the text “rehabilitation program under a Veterans’ Vocational Rehabilitation Scheme” does appear.
This compilation was editorially changed to omit “rehabilitation program under a Veterans’ Vocational Rehabilitation Scheme” and substitute “VEA rehabilitation program (within the meaning of section 115H)” in subsection 115L(1) to give effect to the misdescribed amendment as intended.
Endnote 6—Repeal table
The amendment history of the repealed provisions of the Veterans’ Entitlements Act 1986 up to and including the Payment Processing Legislation Amendment (Social Security and Veterans’ Entitlements) Act 1998 (No 132, 1998) appears in the table below.
Provision affected
How affected
Note to s 5F(1)
rep No 87, 1997
s 5NAA
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 114, 1997
s 5P
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991
rep No 146, 1995
Part III
rep No 72, 1991
s 35A
ad No 130, 1987
am No 134, 1988
rep No 135, 1988
Subdiv F of Div 3 of	 Part III
ad No 72, 1991 rep No 146, 1995
s 36P
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 73 and 175, 1991; No 228, 1992
rep No 146, 1995
ss 36Q–36U
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 146, 1995
Subdiv G of Div 3 of	 Part III
ad No 72, 1991 rep No 146, 1995
ss 36V, 36W
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 146, 1995
s 36X
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 146, 1995
Subdiv H of Div 3 of	 Part III
ad No 72, 1991 rep No 146, 1995
s 36Y
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 146, 1995
Div 1AA of Part III
ad No 164, 1989
rep No 72, 1991
ss 37AA–37AE
ad No 164, 1989
rep No 72, 1991
Div 1A of Part III
ad No 135, 1988
rep No 72, 1991
s 37BA
ad No 164, 1989
rep No 72, 1991
Subdiv F of Div 4 of	 Part III
ad No 72, 1991 rep No 146, 1995
s 37P
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 73 and 175, 1991; Nos 70 and 228, 1992
rep No 146, 1995
ss 37Q–37U
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 146, 1995
Subdiv G of Div 4 of	 Part III
ad No 72, 1991 rep No 146, 1995
s 37V
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 146, 1995
ss 37W, 37X
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 146, 1995
Subdiv H of Div 4 of	 Part III
ad No 72, 1991 rep No 146, 1995
s 37Y
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 146, 1995
Subdiv F of Div 5 of	 Part III
ad No 72, 1991 rep No 146, 1995
s 38P
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 74 and 175, 1991; Nos 70 and 228, 1992
rep No 146, 1995
s 38Q
ad No 72, 1991
am No 70, 1992
rep No 146, 1995
s 38R
ad No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991; No 70, 1992
rep No 146, 1995
ss 38S, 38T
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 146, 1995
Subdiv G of Div 5 of	 Part III
ad No 72, 1991 rep No 146, 1995
s 38U
ad No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991
rep No 146, 1995
ss 38V, 38W
ad No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991
rep No 146, 1995
Subdiv H of Div 5 of	 Part III
ad No 72, 1991 rep No 146, 1995
s 38X
ad No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991
rep No 146, 1995
Div 6 of Part III
rep No 157, 1997
s 39
am No 88, 1987
rs No 72, 1991
am Nos 70 and 228, 1992; No 146, 1995; No 157, 1997
rep No 157, 1997
s 39A
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; Nos 70 and 228, 1992; No 164, 1994; No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
s 39B
ad No 72, 1991
am No 78, 1994
rep No 157, 1997
s 39C
ad No 72, 1991
am No 175, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 164, 1994; No 1, 1996
rep No 157, 1997
ss 39D–39G
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 157, 1997
s 39H
ad No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991
rep No 157, 1997
s 39J
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 78, 1994
rep No 157, 1997
s 39JA	 Renumbered s 39JE
ad No 98, 1994 No 35, 1995
ss 39JA–39JD
ad No 78, 1994
rep No 157, 1997
s 39JE (formerly s 39JA)
rep No 157, 1997
s 39K
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 157, 1997
s 39L
ad No 72, 1991
am No 7, 1997
rep No 157, 1997
s 39M
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 7, 1997
rep No 157, 1997
s 39N
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 73 and 74, 1991; Nos 98 and 118, 1994
rep No 157, 1997
Subdiv F of Div 6 of	 Part III
ad No 72, 1991 rep No 146, 1995
s 39P
ad No 72, 1991
am No 228, 1992
rep No 146, 1995
s 39Q
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 146, 1995
s 39QA
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 146, 1995
Subdiv G of Div 6 of	 Part III
ad No 72, 1991 rep No 146, 1995
s 39R
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 73 and 175, 1991; No 228, 1992
rep No 146, 1995
ss 39S, 39T
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 146, 1995
s 39U
ad No 72, 1991
am No 43, 1996
rep No 146, 1995
ss 39V, 39W
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 146, 1995
Subdiv H of Div 6 of	 Part III
ad No 72, 1991 rep No 146, 1995
s 39X
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 146, 1995
ss 39Y, 39Z
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 146, 1995
Subdiv J of Div 6 of	 Part III
ad No 72, 1991 rep No 146, 1995
s 39ZA
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 146, 1995
Div 7 of Part III
rs No 87, 1997
rep No 132, 1998
s 40
am Nos 78 and 88, 1987
rs No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
Note 1 to s 40(1)
am No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
ss 40A, 40B
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
s 40C
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 73 and 74, 1991; No 228, 1992; Nos 98 and 164, 1994; No 146, 1995; No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
s 40D
ad No 78, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
Heading to s 41
rs No 157, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
s 41
am No 106, 1986; No 134, 1988; No 164, 1989
rs No 72, 1991
am Nos 73 and 74, 1991; Nos 98 and 164, 1994; No 128, 1995; No 157, 1997
rs No 87, 1997
rep No 132, 1998
Heading preceding	 Module A of s 41
ad No 72, 1991 rep No 87, 1997
Module A of s 41
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
41-A1
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 70 and 228, 1992; No 78, 1994; No 146, 1995; No 1, 1996; No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
Note 2 to 41-A1
am No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
41-A2
ad No 72, 1991
am No 78, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
Module B of s 41
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
41-B1
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 128, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
Module C of s 41
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
41-C1
ad No 72, 1991
am No 43, 1996
rep No 87, 1997
41-C2
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 146, 1995; No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
Note 1A to 41-C2
rs No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
41-C2A
ad No 228, 1992
am No 78, 1994; No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
41-C2B
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
41-C3
ad No 72, 1991
am No 118, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
41-C4
ad No 72, 1991
am No 43, 1996
rep No 87, 1997
41-C5
ad No 72, 1991
am No 175, 1991; Nos 106 and 118, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
41-C6
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 78, 1994; Nos 118 and 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
41-C6A
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 146, 1995
41-C7 to 41-C9
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
41-C10
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 118, 1995; No 43, 1996
rep No 87, 1997
41-C11
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
41-C12
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; Nos 70 and 228, 1992; No 78, 1994; Nos 128 and 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
Module CAA of s 41
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 114, 1997
41-CAA1 to 41-CAA9
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 114, 1997
Module CA of s 41	 (41-CA1 to 41-CA8)
ad No 228, 1992 rep No 87, 1997
41-CA1
ad No 228, 1992
am No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
41-CA1A
ad No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
41-CA2 to 41-CA8
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 87, 1997
Module D of s 41
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
41-D1
ad No 72, 1991
am No 121, 1993; No 118, 1995; No 1, 1996
rep No 87, 1997
Note 2 to 41-D1
rs No 7, 1997
am No 7, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
41-D2
ad No 72, 1991
am No 118, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
41-D2A
ad No 121, 1993
rep No 7, 1997
41-D2B
ad No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
41-D3
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
41-D4
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 128, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
41-D5
ad No 72, 1991
am No 175, 1991; No 128, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
41-D6
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
Module E of s 41
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 78, 1994
41-E1, 41-E2
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 78, 1994
41-E3
ad No 72, 1991
am No 175, 1991
rep No 78, 1994
41-E4 to 41-E7
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 78, 1994
41-E8
ad No 72, 1991
am No 175, 1991
rep No 78, 1994
41-E9
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 78, 1994
Module F of s 41
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
41-F1, 41-F2
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
41-F3
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 128, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
41-F4
ad No 72, 1991
am No 175, 1991; No 27, 1993; No 78, 1994; No 128, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
41-F5, 41-F6
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
Module G of s 41
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
41-G1
ad No 72, 1991
am No 228, 1992; No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
41-G2
ad No 72, 1991
am No 228, 1992
rep No 87, 1997
41-G3
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991
rs No 70, 1992
rep No 87, 1997
Heading to s 42
rs No 157, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
s 42
am No 130, 1987; No 134, 1988; No 164, 1989
rs No 72, 1991
am Nos 73 and 74, 1991; Nos 98 and 164, 1994; No 128, 1995; No 43, 1996; No 157, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
Heading preceding	 Module A of s 42
ad No 72, 1991 rep No 87, 1997
Module A of s 42
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-A1
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 70 and 228, 1992; No 78, 1994; No 146, 1995; No 1, 1996; No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
Note 2 to 42-A1
am No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
42-A2, 42-A3
ad No 72, 1991
am No 78, 1994; No 118, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
42-A4
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
Module B of s 42
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-B1
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 128, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
Module C of s 42
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-C1
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-C2
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 73 and 74, 1991; No 78, 1994; No 128, 1995; No 157, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
42-C3
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; Nos 12 and 228, 1992; No 78, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
42-C3AA
ad No 78, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
42-C3AB
ad No 78, 1994
am No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
42-C3AC
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
42-C3A
ad No 73, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-C4
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-C5
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-C6
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-C7
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 73, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-C8
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
Module D of s 42
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-D1
ad No 72, 1991
am No 43, 1996
rep No 87, 1997
42-D2
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 146, 1995; No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
Note 1A to 42-D2
rs No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
42-D2A
ad No 228, 1992
am No 78, 1994; No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
42-D2B
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
42-D3
ad No 72, 1991
am No 118, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
42-D4
ad No 72, 1991
am No 43, 1996
rep No 87, 1997
42-D5
ad No 72, 1991
am No 175, 1991; Nos 106 and 118, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
42-D6
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 78, 1994; Nos 118 and 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
42-D6A
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
42-D7 to 42-D9
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-D10
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 118, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
42-D11
ad No 72, 1991
am No 43, 1996
rep No 87, 1997
42-D12
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 70, 1992; Nos 128 and 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
42-D13
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-D14
ad No 72, 1991
am No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
42-D15
ad No 72, 1991
am No 78, 1994; No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
42-D16
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 78, 1994; Nos 128 and 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
Module DAAA of s 42
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 114, 1997
42-DAAA1 to 42-DAAA13
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 114, 1997
Module DAA of s 42
ad No 78, 1994
rs No 118, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
42-DAA1 to 42-DAA11
ad No 78, 1994
rs No 118, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
42-DAA12
ad No 78, 1994
rs No 118, 1995
am No 146, 1995; No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
Note to 42-DAA12
am No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
42-DAA13, 42-DAA14
ad No 78, 1994
rep No 118, 1995
Module DA of s 42
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 87, 1997
42-DA1
ad No 228, 1992
am No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
42-DA1A
ad No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
42-DA2 to 42-DA8
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 87, 1997
Module E of s 42
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-E1
ad No 72, 1991
am No 121, 1993; No 118, 1995; No 1, 1996
rep No 87, 1997
Note 2 to 42-E1
rs No 7, 1997
am No 7, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
42-E2
ad No 72, 1991
am No 118, 1995 (as am by No 157, 1997)
rep No 87, 1997
42-E2A
ad No 121, 1993
rep No 7, 1997
42-E2B
ad No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
42-E3
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-E4
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 128, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
42-E5
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-E6
ad No 72, 1991
am No 78, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
42-E7 to 42-E9
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-E10
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 118, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
42-E11
ad No 72, 1991
am No 175, 1991; No 78, 1994; No 128, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
42-E12
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-E13
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 78, 1994
am No 118, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
Module F of s 42
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 78, 1994
42-F1, 42-F2
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 78, 1994
42-F3
ad No 72, 1991
am No 175, 1991
rep No 78, 1994
42-F4
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 78, 1994
42-F5
ad No 72, 1991
am No 175, 1991
rep No 78, 1994
42-F6 to 42-F10
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 78, 1994
42-F11
ad No 72, 1991
am No 175, 1991
rep No 78, 1994
42-F12, 42-F13
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 78, 1994
Module G of s 42
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-G1, 42-G2
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-G3
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 70, 1992; No 128, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
42-G4
ad No 72, 1991
am No 175, 1991; No 27, 1993; No 128, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
42-G5
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-G6
ad No 72, 1991
am No 27, 1993
rep No 87, 1997
42-G7
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
Module H of s 42
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-H1
ad No 72, 1991
am No 228, 1992; No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
42-H2
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 70 and 228, 1992; No 78, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
42-H3
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 70, 1992
rep No 87, 1997
42-H4
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 78, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
42-H4A
ad No 70, 1992
rep No 78, 1994
42-H5
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
42-H6
ad No 73, 1991
am No 78, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
Heading to Subdiv D	 of Div 7 of Part III
am No 164, 1994 rep No 87, 1997
s 43
am Nos 78 and 88, 1987; No 164, 1989
rs No 72, 1991
am Nos 73 and 74, 1991; No 164, 1994; No 118, 1995 (as am by No 157, 1997); Nos 128 and 146, 1995; No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
Heading preceding	 Module A of s 43
ad No 72, 1991 am No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
Module A of s 43
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
43-A1
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 70 and 228, 1992; No 164, 1994; Nos 118 and 146, 1995; No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
43-A2
ad No 72, 1991
am No 78, 1994; No 118, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
Module B of s 43
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
43-B1
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 73 and 228, 1991; No 164, 1994; No 128, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
Module C of s 43
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
43-C1
ad No 72, 1991
am No 78, 1994; Nos 118 and 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
43-C2
ad No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991; No 78, 1994; No 128, 1995; No 157, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
43-C3
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; Nos 12 and 228, 1992; No 164, 1994; No 43, 1996
rep No 87, 1997
43-C3AA, 43-C3AB
ad No 78, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
43-C3A
ad No 73, 1991
rep No 118, 1995
43-C4, 43-C5
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
Module D of s 43
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
43-D1
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
43-D2
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 146, 1995; No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
Note 1A to 43-D2
rs No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
43-D3
ad No 72, 1991
am No 118, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
43-D4
ad No 72, 1991
am No 228, 1992; No 78, 1994; No 118, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
Module DAA of s 43
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 114, 1997
43-DAA1 to 43-DAA3
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 114, 1997
Module DA of s 43
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 87, 1997
43-DA1
ad No 228, 1992
am No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
43-DA1A
ad No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
43-DA2 to 43-DA8
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 87, 1997
Module E of s 43
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
43-E1
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
43-E2
ad No 72, 1991
am No 228, 1992; Nos 78 and 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
43-E3
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 70, 1992
rep No 87, 1997
43-E4
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 78, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
43-E5
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
43-E6
ad No 73, 1991
am No 78, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
Heading to Subdiv E	 of Div 7 of Part III
am No 74, 1991 rep No 98, 1994
Subdiv E of Div 7 of Part III
rep No 98, 1994
s 44
rs No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
Heading preceding	 Module A of s 44
ad No 72, 1991 rs No 74, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
Module A of s 44
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
44-A1
ad No 72, 1991
am Nos 70 and 228, 1992; No 78, 1994
rep No 98, 1994
Module B of s 44
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
44-B1
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992
rep No 98, 1994
Module C of s 44
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
44-C1
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
44-C2
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992
rep No 98, 1994
44-C2A
ad No 228, 1992
am No 78, 1994
rep No 98, 1994
44-C3, 44-C4
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
44-C5
ad No 72, 1991
am No 175, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
44-C6
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992
rep No 98, 1994
44-C6A
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 98, 1994
44-C7 to 44-C9
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
44-C10
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
44-C11
ad No 72, 1991
am No 228, 1992
rep No 98, 1994
44-C12
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 70, 1992
rep No 98, 1994
44-C13 to 44-C16
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
44-C17
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992
rep No 98, 1994
Module CA of s 44
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 98, 1994
44-CA1
ad No 228, 1992
am No 164, 1994
rep No 98, 1994
44-CA1A
ad No 164, 1994
rep No 98, 1994
44-CA2 to 44-CA8
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 98, 1994
Module D of s 44
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
44-D1
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 121, 1993
rep No 98, 1994
44-D2
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
44-D2A
ad No 121, 1992
rep No 98, 1994
44-D3
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
44-D4
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
44-D5 to 44-D7
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
44-D8
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992
rep No 98, 1994
44-D9
ad No 72, 1991
am No 175, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
44-D10, 44-D11
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
Module E of s 44
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 78, 1994
44-E1, 44-E2
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 78, 1994
44-E3
ad No 72, 1991
am No 175, 1991
rep No 78, 1994
44-E4 to 44-E7
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 78, 1994
44-E8
ad No 72, 1991
am No 175, 1991
rep No 78, 1994
44-E9, 44-E10
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 78, 1994
Module F of s 44
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
44-F1, 44-F2
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
44-F3
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 70, 1992
rep No 98, 1994
44-F4
ad No 72, 1991
am No 175, 1991; No 27, 1993
rep No 98, 1994
44-F5
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
44-F6
ad No 72, 1991
am No 27, 1993
rep No 98, 1994
44-F7
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
Module G of s 44
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 98, 1994
44-G1, 44-G2
ad No 72, 1991
am No 228, 1992
rep No 98, 1994
Heading to Subdiv F	 of Div 7 of Part III
am No 74, 1991 rep No 87, 1997
Heading to s 45
rs No 157, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
s 45
rs No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991; No 98, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 157, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
Heading preceding	 Module A of s 45
ad No 72, 1991 am No 74, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
Module A of s 45
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
45-A1
ad No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991; No 228, 1992; Nos 118 and 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
Module B of s 45
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
45-B1, 45-B2
ad No 72, 1991
am No 74, 1991
rs No 78, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45-B3
ad No 78, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45-B4
ad No 78, 1994
am No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
Note to 45-B4
am No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
s 45AB
ad No 164, 1994
am Nos 118 and 146, 1995; No 157, 1997
rep No 157, 1997
s 45O
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 118, 1995
Heading to Subdiv A	 of Div 5 of Part IIIA
rep No 87, 1997
ss 45T, 45U
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
s 45V
ad No 98, 1994
am No 164, 1994 (as am by No 157, 1997); No 146, 1995; No 43, 1996; No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
s 45W
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
Subdiv B of Div 5	 of Part IIIA
rep No 87, 1997
s 45X
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
Heading preceding	 Module A of s 45X
ad No 98, 1994 rep No 87, 1997
Heading to Module A	 of s 45X
ad No 98, 1994 rs No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
Module A of s 45X
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45X-A1
ad No 98, 1994
rs No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45X-A2 to 45X-A6
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45X-A7
ad No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
Module B of s 45X
ad No 98, 1994
rs No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45X-B1
ad No 98, 1994
rs No 164, 1994
am No 146, 1995; No 1, 1996; No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
Note 3 to 45X-B1
am No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
45X-B2
ad No 164, 1994
am No 146, 1995; No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
Module C of s 45X
ad No 98, 1994
rs No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45X-C1
ad No 98, 1994
rs No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45X-C2, 45X-C3
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 164, 1994
Module D of s 45X
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45X-D1
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45X-D2
ad No 98, 1994
am No 146, 1995; No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
Note 1A to 45X-D2
rs No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
45X-D3
ad No 98, 1994
am No 164, 1994; No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
45X-D3A
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
45X-D4, 45X-D5
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45X-D6
ad No 98, 1994
am No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45X-D7
ad No 98, 1994
am No 164, 1994; No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
45X-D8 to 45X-D10
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
Module DA of s 45X
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 114, 1997
45X-DA1 to 45X-DA7
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 114, 1997
Module E of s 45X
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45X-E1
ad No 98, 1994
am No 164, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 1, 1996
rep No 87, 1997
Note 2 to 45X-E1
rs No 7, 1997
am No 7, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
45X-E2
ad No 98, 1994
am No 118, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
45X-E3
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 7, 1997
45X-E3A
ad No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45X-E4 to 45X-E7
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
Module F of s 45X
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45X-F1
ad No 98, 1994
am No 164, 1994; No 118, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
45X-F2 to 45X-F6
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
Module G of s 45X
ad No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45X-G1
ad No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45X-G2
ad No 164, 1994
am No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
45X-G3, 45X-G4
ad No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
Subdiv C of Div 5	 of Part IIIA
rep No 87, 1997
s 45Y
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
Heading preceding	 Module A of s 45Y
ad No 98, 1994 rep No 87, 1997
Heading to Module A of	 s 45Y
ad No 98, 1994 rs No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
Module A of s 45Y
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-A1
ad No 98, 1994
rs No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-A2 to 45Y-A6
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-A7
ad No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
Module B of s 45Y
ad No 98, 1994
rs No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-B1
ad No 98, 1994
rs No 164, 1994
am No 146, 1995; No 1, 1996; No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-B2
ad No 164, 1994
am No 146, 1995; No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
Module C of s 45Y
ad No 98, 1994
rs No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-C1
ad No 98, 1994
rs No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-C2 to 45Y-C6
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 164, 1994
Module D of s 45Y
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-D1
ad No 98, 1994
am No 164, 1994; No 118, 1995; No 1, 1996
rep No 87, 1997
Note to 45Y-D1
rs No 7, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-D2
ad No 98, 1994
am No 118, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-D3
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 7, 1997
45Y-D3A
ad No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-D4 to 45Y-D13
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
Module E of s 45Y
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-E1
ad No 98, 1994
am No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-E2 to 45Y-E6
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
Module F of s 45Y
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-F1
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-F2
ad No 98, 1994
am No 146, 1995; No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
Note 1A to 45Y-F2
rs No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-F3
ad No 98, 1994
am No 164, 1994; No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-F3A
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-F4 to 45Y-F6
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-F7
ad No 98, 1994
am No 164, 1994; No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-F7A
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-F8 to 45Y-F10
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
Module FA of s 45Y
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 114, 1997
45Y-FA1 to 45Y-FA8
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 114, 1997
Module G of s 45Y
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-G1
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-G2
ad No 98, 1994
am No 157, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-G3
ad No 98, 1994
am No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-G4 to 45Y-G9
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-G10
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
Module H of s 45Y
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-H1
ad No 98, 1994
am No 164, 1994; No 118, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-H2
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-H3
ad No 98, 1994
am No 118, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-H4
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-H5
ad No 98, 1994
am No 146, 1995; No 114, 1997
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-H6 to 45Y-H9
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
Module I of s 45Y
ad No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-I1
ad No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-I2
ad No 164, 1994
am No 146, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
45Y-I3 to 45Y-I7
ad No 164, 1994
rep No 87, 1997
Div 6 of Part IIIA
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 146, 1995
s 45Z
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 146, 1995
ss 45ZA–45ZD
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 146, 1995
s 45ZE
ad No 98, 1994
am No 164, 1994; No 128, 1995; No 43, 1996
rep No 146, 1995
ss 45ZF–45ZJ
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 146, 1995 (as am by No 146, 1995)
Heading to Div 8AA of Part III Renumbered Div 1	 of Part IIIB
No 98, 1994
Heading to Div 1 of	 Part IIIB
am No 98, 1994 rep No 1, 1996
Div 8AA of Part III	 Renumbered Div 1	 of Part IIIB
ad No 74, 1991 No 98, 1994 (as am by No 164, 1994)
Div 1 of Part IIIB
rep No 1, 1996
s 45A	 Renumbered s 45ZK
ad No 74, 1991 No 98, 1994 (as am by No 164, 1994)
s 45ZK
am No 98, 1994 (as am by No 164, 1994); No 43, 1996
rep No 1, 1996
s 45B
ad No 74, 1991
Renumbered s 45ZL
am No 70, 1992 No 98, 1994 (as am by No 164, 1994)
s 45ZL
rep No 1, 1996
s 45C	 Renumbered s 45ZM
ad No 74, 1991 No 98, 1994 (as am by No 164, 1994)
s 45ZM
am No 98, 1994 (as am by No 164, 1994; No 43, 1996); No 43, 1996
rep No 1, 1996
s 45D	 Renumbered s 45ZN
ad No 74, 1991 No 98, 1994 (as am by No 164, 1994)
s 45ZN
am No 98, 1994 (as am by No 164, 1994)
rep No 1, 1996
Heading to Div 8 of Part III Renumbered Div 2 of	 Part IIIB
No 98, 1994
Heading to Div 2 of Part IIIB
am No 98, 1994
rep No 1, 1996
Subdiv A of Div 2 of	 Part IIIB
rep No 1, 1996
s 46
rs No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991
rs No 228, 1992
rep No 1, 1996
s 46A
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 78, 1994
rep No 1, 1996
Heading to Subdiv AA of	 Div 2 of Part IIIB
am No 228, 1992 rep No 1, 1996
Subdiv AA of Div 2 of	 Part IIIB
ad No 228, 1992 rep No 1, 1996
s 46AA
ad No 228, 1992
am No 228, 1992; No 36, 1993; No 164, 1994; No 1, 1996
rep No 1, 1996
ss 46AB–46AG
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 1, 1996
Heading to Subdiv B of	 Div 2 of Part IIIB
am No 228, 1992 rep No 1, 1996
Subdiv B of Div 2 of	 Part IIIB
rep No 1, 1996
s 46B
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 78, 1994
rep No 1, 1996
s 46BA
ad No 73, 1991
am No 70, 1992
rep No 228, 1992
s 46BB
ad No 73, 1991
rep No 1, 1996
ss 46C, 46D
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991
rep No 228, 1992
s 46E
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 228, 1992
s 46F
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 228, 1992
ad No 1, 1996
rep No 7, 1997
s 46G
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992
rep No 228, 1992
s 46H
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 228, 1992
Heading to Subdiv C of	 Div 2 of Part IIIB
am No 228, 1992 rep No 1, 1996
Subdiv C of Div 2 of	 Part IIIB
rep No 1, 1996
s 46J
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; Nos 70 and 228, 1992
rep No 1, 1996
s 46K
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991 (as am by No 118, 1995)
rep No 1, 1996
s 46L
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991
rep No 228, 1992
ss 46M, 46N
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 228, 1992
s 46P
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991
rep No 228, 1992
s 46Q
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992
rep No 228, 1992
s 46R
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 228, 1992
Subdiv D of Div 2 of	 Part IIIB
rs No 228, 1992 rep No 1, 1996
s 46S
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 228, 1992
am No 118, 1995
rep No 1, 1996
s 46SA
ad No 228, 1992
am No 118, 1995
rep No 1, 1996
Heading to Subdiv E of Div 2 of Part IIIB Renumbered Subdiv B	 of Div 4 of Part IIIB
No 1, 1996 rep No 93, 1998
Heading to Div 8A of	 Part III	 Renumbered Div 3 of	 Part IIIB
am No 74, 1991 rs No 228, 1992 No 98, 1994
Heading to Div 3 of	 Part IIIB
am No 98, 1994 rep No 1, 1996
Div 3 of Part IIIB
ad No 73, 1991
rep No 1, 1996
s 46V
ad No 73, 1991
rs No 228, 1992
rep No 1, 1996
s 46W
ad No 73, 1991
am Nos 70 and 228, 1992
rep No 1, 1996
ss 46X, 46Y
ad No 73, 1991
am No 70, 1992
rep No 1, 1996
s 46YA
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 1, 1996
s 46Z
ad No 73, 1991
rs No 70, 1992
rep No 1, 1996
s 46ZA
ad No 73, 1991
rep No 1, 1996
Heading to Div 8B of	 Part III Renumbered Div 4 of	 Part IIIB
am No 74, 1991 No 98, 1994
Heading to Div 4 of	 Part IIIB
am No 98, 1994 rep No 1, 1996
Div 4 of Part IIIB
ad No 73, 1991
rep No 1, 1996
s 46ZB
ad No 73, 1991
am No 164, 1994
rep No 1, 1996
s 46ZBA
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 1, 1996
s 46ZC
ad No 73, 1991
am No 164, 1994
rep No 1, 1996
ss 46ZD, 46ZE
ad No 73, 1991
am No 70, 1992
rep No 1, 1996
s 46ZEA
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 1, 1996
s 46ZF
ad No 73, 1991
rs No 70, 1992
rep No 1, 1996
s 46ZG
ad No 73, 1991
am No 118, 1995
rep No 1, 1996
Heading to Div 8C of	 Part III Renumbered Div 5 of	 Part IIIB
am No 74, 1991 No 98, 1994
Heading to Div 5 of	 Part IIIB
am No 98, 1994 rep No 1, 1996
Div 5 of Part IIIB
ad No 73, 1991
rep No 1, 1996
ss 46ZH–46ZK
ad No 73, 1991
rep No 1, 1996
Heading to Div 11 of	 Part III Renumbered Div 8 of	 Part IIIB
No 98, 1994
Heading to Div 8 of	 Part IIIB
am No 98, 1994 rep No 7, 1997
Div 8 of Part IIIB
rep No 7, 1997
s 49
rs No 78, 1987
am No 130, 1987
rs No 72, 1991
am No 228, 1992; No 98, 1994
rep No 7, 1997
s 49A
ad No 78, 1987
rs Nos 72 and 73, 1991
am No 228, 1992 (as am by No 118, 1995); No 98, 1994
rep No 7, 1997
s 49B
ad No 130, 1987
am No 164, 1989; No 2, 1991
rs No 72, 1991
rep No 7, 1997
Heading preceding	 Module A of s 49B
ad No 72, 1991 rep No 7, 1997
Module A of s 49B
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 7, 1997
49B-A1
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991
rep No 7, 1997
49B-A2
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 73, 1991
am No 208, 1991
rep No 7, 1997
49B-A3
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 73, 1991
rep No 7, 1997
Heading preceding 49B-A4
am No 208, 1991
rep No 7, 1997
49B-A4
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 73, 1991
am No 208, 1991
rep No 7, 1997
49B-A5, 49B-A6
ad No 73, 1991
rep No 7, 1997
Module B of s 49B
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 7, 1997
49B-B1
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992; No 98, 1994 (as am by No 43, 1996)
rep No 7, 1997
49B-B2
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 98, 1994 (as am by No 43, 1996)
rep No 7, 1997
49B-B2A
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 7, 1997
49B-B3
ad No 72, 1991
am No 228, 1992; No 98, 1994 (as am by No 43, 1996)
rep No 7, 1997
Module C of s 49B
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 7, 1997
49B-C1
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 43, 1996
rep No 7, 1997
49B-C2
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 7, 1997
Module D of s 49B
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 7, 1997
49B-D1
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991
rep No 7, 1997
49B-D2
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 7, 1997
s 50C
ad No 2, 1991
rep No 72, 1991
Heading preceding 52A-1
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 93, 1998
52A-1 to 52A-3
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 93, 1998
s 52K
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 73, 1991
rep No 70, 1992
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
s 52ZAA
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
s 52ZN
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
Div 11A of Part IIIB
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
ss 53AA–53AN
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
Notes 1, 2 to s 53A
rep No 157, 1997
s 53B
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 228, 1992
Heading preceding 53B-1
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 73, 1991
53B-1 to 53B-3
ad No 72, 1991
rs No 73, 1991
rep No 228, 1992
53B-4
ad No 72, 1991
rs Nos 73 and 74, 1991
rep No 228, 1992
53B-5
ad No 73, 1991
am No 74, 1991
rep No 228, 1992
53B-6 to 53B-8
ad No 73, 1991
rep No 228, 1992
53B-9
ad No 73, 1991
am No 73, 1991; No 228, 1992
rep No 228, 1992
53B-10 to 53B-12
ad No 73, 1991
rep No 228, 1992
s 53C
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 228, 1992
Heading preceding 53C-1
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 228, 1992
53C-1
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 228, 1992
53C-2
ad No 72, 1991
am No 73, 1991
rep No 228, 1992
s 53F
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 157, 1997
Heading preceding 53F-1
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 157, 1997
53F-1, 53F-2
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 157, 1997
Note to 53F-2
rs No 87, 1997
rep No 157, 1997
53F-3, 53F-4
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 157, 1997
Note to 53F-4
rs No 87, 1997
rep No 157, 1997
53F-5, 53F-6
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 157, 1997
53F-6A
ad No 45, 1998
rep No 157, 1997
53F–7
ad No 228, 1992
am No 45, 1998
rep No 157, 1997
53F–8 to 53F-10
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 157, 1997
s 53G
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 157, 1997
Heading preceding 53G-1
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 157, 1997
53G-1, 53G-2
ad No 228, 1992
rep No 157, 1997
Note 1 to s 53J
rep No 132, 1998
Note 2 to s 53J
rs No 157, 1997
rep No 132, 1998
Heading to Subdiv E	 of Div 12A of Part IIIB
rs No 157, 1997 rep No 157, 1997
Subdiv E of Div 12A	 of Part IIIB
rep No 157, 1997
s 53U
ad No 146, 1995
am No 157, 1997
rep No 157, 1997
s 53V
ad No 146, 1995
am No 157, 1997
rep No 157, 1997
Note to s 53V(6)
am No 157, 1997
rep No 157, 1997
s 53W
ad No 146, 1995
am No 157, 1997
rep No 157, 1997
Div 12B of Part IIIB
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
s 53X
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
Div 13A of Part IIIB
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
ss 54D–54H
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
Note to s 55B(2)
rep No 87, 1997
s 55C
ad No 72, 1991
rep No 87, 1997
s 56
am No 106, 1986
rep No 78, 1987
s 56BA
ad No 78, 1994
am No 43, 1996
rep No 7, 1997
ss 56BB, 56BC
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
s 56GAA
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
s 56HA
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
s 57AA
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
Div 5A of Part III
ad No 164, 1989
rep No 72, 1991
s 57CA
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
s 58AA
ad No 98, 1994
rep No 132, 1998
s 58B
ad No 72, 1991
am No 98, 1994
rep No 132, 1998
s 58KA
ad No 118, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
s 59
am Nos 78 and 130, 1987
rep No 72, 1991
s 59F
ad No 73, 1991
am No 228, 1992; No 148, 1994
rs No 106, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
s 59G
ad No 73, 1991
am No 228, 1992
rep No 87, 1997
s 59GAA
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 114, 1997
ss 59GC–59GE
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
s 59K
ad No 73, 1991
am No 74, 1991; No 228, 1992
rep No 157, 1997
Notes to s 59P(6), (7)
rep No 87, 1997
Part IIID
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
s 60
am No 78, 1987
rep No 72, 1991
ad No 146, 1995
am No 7, 1997
rep No 157, 1997
s 61
rep No 72, 1991
ad No 146, 1995
am No 7, 1997
rep No 157, 1997
s 62
rep No 72, 1991
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
s 63
am Nos 78, 88 and 130, 1987; No 164, 1989
rep No 72, 1991
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
s 64
am No 88, 1987
rep No 2, 1991
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
s 65
am No 130, 1986; No 78, 1987; No 130, 1987 (as am by No 133, 1988); No 134, 1988; No 164, 1989
rep No 164, 1989
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
ss 66, 67
am No 78, 1987
rep No 72, 1991
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
ss 67A, 67B
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
Subhead to s 67C(2)
am No 7, 1997
rep No 157, 1997
s 67C
ad No 146, 1995
am Nos 7 and 87, 1997
rep No 157, 1997
ss 67D–67G
ad No 146, 1995
am No 7, 1997
rep No 157, 1997
Heading to s 67H
am No 7, 1997
rep No 157, 1997
s 67H
ad No 146, 1995
am No 7, 1997
rep No 157, 1997
s 67J
ad No 146, 1995
rs Nos 7 and 87, 1997
rep No 157, 1997
ss 67JA, 67JB
ad No 7, 1997
am No 87, 1997
rep No 157, 1997
Note to s 67JB(2)
rep No 87, 1997
s 67JC
ad No 7, 1997
am No 87, 1997
rep No 157, 1997
ss 67K, 67L
ad No 146, 1995
rep No 157, 1997
s 82
am No 106, 1986; Nos 78 and 130, 1987
rep No 73, 1991
s 83
am No 106, 1986; No 130, 1987
rep No 73, 1991
Note to s 85(5)
rep No 157, 1997
s 95
rep No 73, 1991
s 99A
ad No 70, 1992
rep No 164, 1994
s 101
am Nos 78 and 130, 1987
rep No 164, 1989
Part VIIA heading
am No 2, 1991
rep No 208, 1991
Part VIIA
ad No 84, 1990
rep No 208, 1991
Div 2 of Part VIIA
rep No 208, 1991
s 118F
ad No 84, 1990
am Nos 2, 73 and 74, 1991
rs No 208, 1991
rep No 208, 1991
s 118G
ad No 84, 1990
am Nos 2, 73 and 74, 1991
rs No 208, 1991
rep No 228, 1992
s 118H
ad No 84, 1990
am Nos 2, 73 and 74, 1991
rs No 208, 1991
rep No 208, 1991
s 118J
ad No 84, 1990
am Nos 2 and 73, 1991
rs No 208, 1991
rep No 208, 1991
s 118JA
ad No 2, 1991
rs No 74, 1991
am Nos 73 and 74, 1991
rs No 208, 1991
rep No 208, 1991
s 118JB
ad No 2, 1991
am Nos 73 and 74, 1991
rep No 208, 1991
s 118JC
ad No 2, 1991
rs No 208, 1991
rep No 208, 1991
s 118K
ad No 84, 1990
am Nos 2 and 73, 1991
rs No 208, 1991
rep No 208, 1991
s 118L
ad No 84, 1990
am No 2, 1991
rs No 208, 1991
rep No 208, 1991
s 118M
ad No 84, 1990
am Nos 2, 73 and 74, 1991
rs No 208, 1991
am No 228, 1992
rep No 208, 1991
Subdiv C of Div 2 of	 Part VIIA
rs No 228, 1992 rep No 208, 1991
s 118N
ad No 84, 1990
am Nos 2, 73 and 74, 1991
rs No 208, 1991; No 228, 1992
rep No 208, 1991
s 118P
ad No 208, 1991
rs No 228, 1992
rep No 208, 1991
Note 2 to s 118Q(1)
rep No 157, 1997
Note to s 118S(2)
rep No 157, 1997
118ZAA-1
ad No 78, 1994
am No 1, 1996
rep No 116, 1998
Note 2 to 118ZAA-1
am No 93, 1998
rep No 116, 1998
ss 118ZAB, 118ZAC
ad No 78, 1994
rep No 116, 1998
s 118ZAD
ad No 78, 1994
am No 87, 1997
rep No 116, 1998
s 128B
ad No 119, 1990
am Nos 73 and 74, 1991
rep No 2, 1991
s 197A
ad No 106, 1986
rep No 78, 1987
s 198B
ad No 164, 1989
am No 2, 1991
rep No 73, 1991
s 198C
ad No 164, 1989
rep No 73, 1991
s 198E
ad No 74, 1991
am No 208, 1991; No 118, 1995
rep No 87, 1997
s 207
am No 78, 1987
rep No 73, 1991
s 210
rep No 134, 1988
