THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
          SINGAPORE BUSINESS FEDERATION
                               ACT 2001

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                               2020 Ed.

Singapore Business Federation
             Act 2001

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

     1.  Short title
     2.  Interpretation
     3.  Objects of Singapore Business Federation
     4.  Composition of Council
     5.  Membership of Federation
     6.  Appointment of Board
     7.  Functions and powers of Board
     8.  Accounts to be kept
     9.  Access to accounts and other records
   10.   Dissolution of Federation
   11.   Act to prevail over Constitution of Federation
   12.   Subscriptions payable by members
   13.   Power to make regulations
         The Schedule — Local Ethnic Chambers of Commerce and

                               Industry

An Act to provide for membership of certain local and foreign
  companies in the Singapore Business Federation and for certain
  matters relating to the management and operation thereof.

                                                                 [1 April 2002]

  Whereas a society known as the “Singapore Business Federation”
has been registered under the Societies Act 1966 and has as its objects
the enhancement of the organisation of the business community in
Singapore and the representation, advancement, promotion and
protection, in Singapore and abroad, of the major business
concerns (such as investment and trade opportunities and labour
management issues) of business entities carrying on commerce and
industry in Singapore and, in particular, of larger local and foreign
companies.

                                                           1

                                                                                              31.12.2021
   Singapore Business Federation

2  Act 2001                                                  2020 Ed.

  And Whereas it is desirable that statutory provision be made to
provide for membership and participation by larger local and foreign
companies in the Singapore Business Federation.

Short title
 1. This Act is the Singapore Business Federation Act 2001.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “authorised person” means a person authorised by the Board;

      “Board” means the Board of Trustees of the Singapore Business
         Federation mentioned in its Constitution;

      “Constitution”, in relation to the Singapore Business Federation,
         means the instrument constituting the Singapore Business
         Federation and containing the rules thereof, and subject to
         which the Federation is registered under the Societies
         Act 1966;

      “Council” means the Council of the Singapore Business
         Federation mentioned in its Constitution;

      “foreign chambers of commerce and industry” means any
         organisation in Singapore which represents the interests of
         persons from a foreign country, or any region or part of a
         foreign country, who are carrying on business in Singapore;

      “foreign company” means a foreign company which is
         registered under Division 2 of Part 11 of the Companies
         Act 1967 or under any corresponding previous written law;

      “local company” means a company incorporated under
         Division 1 of Part 3 of the Companies Act 1967 or under
         any corresponding previous written law;

      “rules”, in relation to the Singapore Business Federation, has the
         meaning given by section 11(3) of the Societies Act 1966;

      “Singapore Business Federation” means the society registered
         under the Societies Act 1966 by that name, and “Federation”
         is to be construed accordingly.
          Singapore Business Federation

2020 Ed.  Act 2001                                         3

Objects of Singapore Business Federation

3. The objects of the Singapore Business Federation are —

(a) to enhance the organisation of the business community in
     Singapore; and

(b) to represent, advance, promote and protect, in Singapore
     and abroad, the major business concerns (such as
     investment and trade opportunities and labour
     management issues) of business entities carrying on
     commerce and industry in Singapore and, in particular,
     of larger local and foreign companies.

Composition of Council

 4.—(1) The Council consists of the members specified in the
Constitution of the Federation who must include —

       (a) one nominee from each of the local ethnic chambers of
            commerce and industry specified in the Schedule; and

       (b) such number of representatives from foreign chambers of
            commerce and industry, not exceeding one-quarter of the
            total number of members of the Council.

 (2) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend, add to or vary
the Schedule.

Membership of Federation

 5.—(1) Every —

       (a) local company which has a paid-up share capital of or
            above the amount of $500,000; and

       (b) foreign company which has an authorised share capital of
            or above the amount of $500,000,

becomes, by virtue of this section and without election, admission or
appointment, a member of the Federation, unless the membership of
the local or foreign company is terminated in accordance with the
Constitution of the Federation.

                                          31.12.2021
   Singapore Business Federation

4  Act 2001                                         2020 Ed.

   (2) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette —

   (a) exempt any local or foreign company or any class of local
        or foreign companies from subsection (1); and

   (b) substitute the amount of paid-up share capital or authorised
        share capital specified in subsection (1)(a) or (b) (as the
        case may be) with any other amount that the Minister may
        determine.

Appointment of Board

 6.—(1) The Minister is to appoint the Board of Trustees of the
Federation, consisting of such number of trustees as the Minister
thinks fit.

 (2) The Minister may appoint one of the trustees on the Board to be
the Chairperson.

 (3) The Chairperson and every other trustee on the Board hold
office on such terms and conditions and for such period as the
Minister may determine.

 (4) The Minister may, at any time, remove or replace any trustee on
the Board and appoint new or additional trustees to the Board.

Functions and powers of Board
 7.—(1) The Board is responsible for ensuring that —
       (a) the Federation acts in furtherance of its objects as set out in
            this Act and in its Constitution;
       (b) the funds and assets of the Federation are properly
            accounted for and safeguarded; and
       (c) the persons who are members of the Council are fit and
            proper persons to hold such office.

 (2) The approval of the Board is required for the following matters:
       (a) the annual report and accounts of the Federation;
       (b) the annual budget of the Federation;
          Singapore Business Federation

2020 Ed.  Act 2001                              5

          (c) the acquisition, sale, lease, mortgage, alienation or disposal
              by the Federation of any movable or immovable property
              of such value as the Board may determine;

(d) the appointment of members of the Council;

          (e) any proposed amendment to or variation of the
              Constitution of the Federation.

Accounts to be kept

 8.—(1) The Council must —

       (a) cause to be kept full and proper accounts and records of all
            financial transactions of the Federation;

       (b) ensure that payments out of the funds of the Federation are
            correctly made and properly authorised; and

       (c) ensure that adequate control is maintained over the assets
            and receipts of the funds of the Board.

 (2) The accounts of the Federation must be audited by an auditor
appointed by the Council with the approval of the Board.

 (3) A person is not qualified for appointment as an auditor under
subsection (2) unless the person is a public accountant within the
meaning of the Companies Act 1967.

 (4) The Council must cause a copy of the audited accounts of the
Federation and the auditor’s report to be submitted to the Board.

 (5) The Minister may, by regulations made under section 13,
provide for the proper control and management of the funds of the
Federation and for the proper accounting, reporting, auditing and
periodic examination of the accounts of the Federation.

Access to accounts and other records

 9.—(1) The Board or any authorised person is entitled, at all
reasonable times, to full and free access to all accounting and other
records relating, directly or indirectly, to the financial transactions of
the Federation.

 (2) The Board or any authorised person may require any person to
disclose or furnish to the Board or authorised person (as the case may

                                                31.12.2021
   Singapore Business Federation

6                        Act 2001  2020 Ed.

be) such information or document which such person possesses or has
access to as the Board or authorised person considers necessary —

   (a) for the purpose of ascertaining whether the funds of the
        Federation have been applied or expended in accordance
        with or in furtherance of its objects as set out in this Act
        and in its Constitution; or

   (b) for the proper discharge by the Board of its functions under
        this Act.

   (3) Any person who —

   (a) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with any
        requirement of the Board or any authorised person under
        subsection (2);

   (b) furnishes to the Board or any authorised person any
        information or document which the person knows or has
        reason to believe is false; or

   (c) hinders, obstructs or delays the Board or any authorised
       person in the performance by the Board or the authorised
       person of their respective duties or in the exercise of their
       respective powers under this section,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $1,000.

Dissolution of Federation

 10.—(1) The Federation must not be dissolved without the prior
approval of the Minister.

 (2) Upon dissolution of the Federation, the movable or immovable
property of the Federation must be disposed of in such manner as may
be determined by its members and approved by the Board.

Act to prevail over Constitution of Federation

 11.—(1) Any provision of the Constitution of the Federation that is
inconsistent with this Act shall, to the extent of the inconsistency, be
void.
          Singapore Business Federation

2020 Ed.  Act 2001                       7

 (2) Nothing in this Act is to be construed to excuse or exempt the
Federation from complying with any written law that (apart from this
Act) would apply to it.

Subscriptions payable by members

 12.—(1) Every local or foreign company that is a member of the
Federation by virtue of this Act must pay to the Federation an annual
or periodic subscription of such amount as may be —

       (a) determined by the Council after consultation with the
            Board; and

       (b) approved by the Minister.

 (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the Council, after
consultation with the Board and subject to the approval of the
Minister, may —

       (a) divide the members of the Federation into different classes;

       (b) determine that different amounts of subscription are to be
            payable by different classes of such members and for
            different periods;

       (c) vary from time to time, the subscriptions payable by such
            members or different classes of such members; and

       (d) determine the rate of interest that is payable by any such
            member in the event that any subscription due from such
            member remains unpaid for such period as the Federation
            may determine.

 (3) The amount of subscription prescribed as being payable by any
member of the Federation under this section must not exceed in the
aggregate $1,500 in any calendar year.

 (4) Any subscription that is payable to the Federation under this
section may be recovered by the Council by an action for a debt in any
court of competent jurisdiction.

                                                                                                           [33/2018]

                                         31.12.2021
   Singapore Business Federation

8                          Act 2001  2020 Ed.

Power to make regulations

 13. The Minister may make such regulations as may be necessary
or expedient for the purposes of this Act.

                             THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                   Section 4(1)(a)

    LOCAL ETHNIC CHAMBERS OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
1. Singapore Chinese Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
2. Singapore Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
3. Singapore Malay Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

      SINGAPORE BUSINESS FEDERATION
                         ACT 2001

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 40 of 2001 — Singapore Business Federation Act 2001

Bill           : 40/2001

First Reading  : 25 September 2001

Second and Third Readings : 5 October 2001

Commencement   : 1 April 2002

2. 2002 Revised Edition — Singapore Business Federation Act
                                    (Chapter 297A)

Operation      : 31 July 2002

3. Act 33 of 2018 — Small Claims Tribunals (Amendment) Act 2018
   (Amendments made by section 23(6) of the above Act)

Bill           : 23/2018

First Reading  : 17 May 2018

Second and Third Readings : 9 July 2018

Commencement   : 1 November 2019 (section 23(6))

                                                             31.12.2021
                             ii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
