THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                      PASSPORTS ACT 2007

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                                                                   2020 Ed.

         Passports Act 2007

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         General interpretation
     1.  Meaning of “personal identifier”
     2.  Extraterritorial operation of Act
     3.  Controller and authorised officers
     4.
     5.

                                        PART 2

                     ISSUE OF SINGAPORE PASSPORTS
                          AND TRAVEL DOCUMENTS

                        Division 1 — Singapore passports

 6. Application for Singapore passport
 7. Issue of Singapore passport
 8. Validity of Singapore passport
 9. No extension of biometric Singapore passport
10. Endorsement of Singapore passport

             Division 2 — Singapore temporary travel document

11. Purpose of Singapore temporary travel document
12. Application for Singapore temporary travel document
13. Issue of Singapore temporary travel document
14. Validity of Singapore temporary travel document
15. No extension of Singapore temporary travel document

            Division 3 — Emergency and other travel documents

16. Issue of Singapore document of identity, etc.
17. Validity of Singapore document of identity, etc.
18. Issue of other Singapore travel documents

                                                   1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                            2

          PART 3

          REFUSING OR CANCELLING SINGAPORE PASSPORTS
                            AND TRAVEL DOCUMENTS

          Division 1 — General

Section   When Singapore passport may be refused
          When Singapore travel document may be refused
   19.    When Singapore passport, etc., may be cancelled
   20.    Cancellation of Singapore document of identity, etc.
   21.
   22.

Division 2 — Law enforcement reasons for refusing or cancelling

23. Reasons relating to law enforcement
24. Reasons relating to potential for harmful conduct

          Division 3 — Other reasons for refusing or cancelling

25. Repeated loss or thefts of Singapore passports
26. Concurrently valid Singapore passports, etc.
27. Children

          Division 4 — Appeals against refusals and cancellations

28. Appeal to Minister
28A. Minister may designate others to hear appeals

          PART 4

          POWERS OF ENFORCEMENT

29.       Demand for surrender of suspicious Singapore passports, etc.
30.       Demand for surrender of cancelled Singapore passports, etc.
31.       Search and seizure of cancelled Singapore passports, etc.
32.       Powers of arrest, detention and prosecution
32A.      Bail and bond
33.       Identification to be produced during enforcement

                                        PART 5

          OFFENCES RELATING TO SINGAPORE PASSPORTS
                          AND TRAVEL DOCUMENTS

                    Division 1 — Application and definitions

34. Geographical application of this Part
35. Interpretation of this Part

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
3        Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

         Division 2 — Offences

Section  Falsifying Singapore passports, etc.
   36.   Possessing false Singapore passports, etc.
   37.   Bringing, taking or sending false Singapore passports, etc.,
   38.   across international borders
         Making or giving false or misleading statements or information
   39.   Providing false or misleading documents
   40.   Improper use or possession of Singapore passports, etc.
   41.   Selling Singapore passport, etc.
   42.   Damaging Singapore passport, etc.
   43.   Dishonestly obtaining Singapore passport, etc.
   44.   Failure to notify loss of Singapore passport, etc.
   45.   Failure to surrender cancelled or invalid Singapore passport, etc.
   46.   Offences relating to false foreign travel documents
   47.   Extended criminal jurisdiction for false foreign travel
   47A.  documents within Singapore designated area
         Unauthorised issue of Singapore passports, etc.
   48.   Obstructing authorised officer, etc.
   49.

         Division 3 — General provisions

   50. Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
   51. Jurisdiction of court
   52. Composition of offences

                                           PART 6

       OBLIGATIONS RELATING TO IDENTIFYING INFORMATION

   53. Interpretation of this Part
   54. Methods and technologies for travel documents
   55. Authorising disclosure of or access to identifying information
   56. Accessing or disclosing identifying information

                                           PART 7

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   57. Singapore passports, etc., are property of Government
   58. Power to exempt
   59. Service of documents, etc.
   60. Regulations
   61. Saving and transitional provisions

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        4

Section
            The Schedule — Personal identifiers

An Act to provide for the issue of Singapore passports and other
  travel documents to be used as evidence of identity and citizenship
  by citizens of Singapore who are travelling internationally and for
  matters connected therewith.

                                                           [1 December 2007]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Passports Act 2007.

General interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “applicant”, in relation to an application for a Singapore
         passport or a Singapore travel document, means the person
         who will be the holder of the Singapore passport or Singapore
         travel document if the application is granted;

      “approved form” means any form approved by the Controller for
         the purposes of any of the provisions of this Act;

      “authorised officer”, in relation to any provision in this Act or
         the regulations, means —

              (a) the Controller;

              (b) any immigration officer authorised by the Minister
                   for the purposes of that provision;

              (c) any diplomatic or consular officer of the Government
                   in any foreign country, or any Trade Commissioner of
                   Singapore in any foreign country, authorised by the
                   Minister for the purposes of that provision; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
5  Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

   (d) any other public officer authorised by the Minister for
        the purposes of that provision;

   “biometric passport” means a passport which contains unique
      biological data specific to the holder;

   “child” means a person who is below 16 years of age;

   “conduct” means an act, an omission to perform an act or a state
      of affairs;

   “Controller” means the Controller of Immigration appointed
      under section 3 of the Immigration Act 1959;

   “customs officer” has the same meaning as “officer of customs”
      in the Customs Act 1960;

   “document” includes —

   (a) any paper or other material where there is writing;

   (b) any paper or other material on which there are marks,
        figures, symbols or perforations that are —

   (i) capable of being given a meaning by persons
       qualified to interpret them; or

   (ii) capable of being responded to by a computer, a
        machine or an electronic device; or

   (c) any article or material from which information is
       capable of being reproduced with or without the aid
       of any other article or device;

   “engage in conduct” means to do an act or omit to perform an
      act;

   “fingerprint”, in relation to an individual, means a record (in any
      form and produced by any method) of the skin pattern and
      other physical characteristics or features of any of the
      individual’s thumbs or fingers;

   “foreign travel document” means —

   (a) a passport; or

   (b) a document issued for travel purposes (whether or not
        also issued for another purpose),

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        6

          that is issued by or on behalf of the government of a foreign
          country or an international organisation approved by the
          Minister;

“holder”, in relation to a Singapore passport or a Singapore
   travel document, means the person in whose name the
   Singapore passport or Singapore travel document has been
   issued;

“immigration officer” means an immigration officer appointed
   under section 3 of the Immigration Act 1959;

“public authority” means any board or authority established by
   or under any written law to perform or discharge any public
   function;

“regulations” means the regulations made under this Act;

“repealed Act” means the Passports Act (Cap. 220,
   1985 Revised Edition) repealed by this Act;

“Singapore document of identity” means a document issued
   under section 16 to any person who is a citizen of Singapore
   for the purposes of urgently facilitating the person’s entry
   into or exit from any country, and purporting to establish the
   identity and nationality of that person;

“Singapore passport” means —

          (a) a Singapore ordinary passport;

          (b) a Singapore diplomatic passport; or

          (c) a Singapore official passport,

          issued by or on behalf of the Government under this Act;

“Singapore temporary travel document” means a Singapore
   temporary travel document issued under section 13 to any
   person who is a citizen of Singapore for the purposes of
   facilitating the person’s entry into or exit from any country,
   and purporting to establish the identity and nationality of that
   person;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
7  Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

   “Singapore travel document” means —

   (a) a Singapore temporary travel document;

   (b) a Singapore document of identity or other emergency
        travel document issued under section 16; or

   (c) a Singapore travel document of the kind prescribed
       under section 18.

 (2) A reference in this Act to a false Singapore passport or a false
Singapore travel document is a reference to —

   (a) a document —

   (i) that is not a Singapore passport but purports to be a
       Singapore passport; or

   (ii) that is not a Singapore travel document but purports
        to be a Singapore travel document; or

   (b) a document that is a Singapore passport or a Singapore
        travel document —

   (i) that has been altered by a person who is not
       authorised to alter that document; or

   (ii) that purports to have been altered on a date on which,
        or at a place at which, or otherwise in circumstances
        in which, it was not in fact made or altered.

 (3) A reference in this Act to a false foreign travel document is a
reference to —

   (a) a document that purports to be a passport, or a document
        for travel purposes, issued by or on behalf of —

   (i) the government of a foreign country; or

   (ii) an international organisation approved by the
        Minister for the purposes of the definition of
        “foreign travel document” under subsection (1),

   (a) but that was not issued by or on behalf of that government
        or international organisation; or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        8

(b) a document that is a foreign travel document that has been
     altered by a person who is not authorised to alter that
     document.

 (4) For the purposes of this Act, a person has parental responsibility
for a child if, and only if —

(a) the person is the child’s parent;

(b) under any order of court, the child is to live with the
     person; or

          (c) the person is entitled to guardianship or custody of the
              child under any written law.

Meaning of “personal identifier”

 3.—(1) In this Act, “personal identifier” means any of the
identifiers specified in the Schedule (including any in digital form).

 (2) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend the Schedule,
except that any other personal identifier so prescribed in the order
must —

       (a) be an image of, or a measurement or recording of, an
            external part of the human body or a person’s voice; and

       (b) not be an identifier the obtaining of which would involve
            the taking of an invasive sample within the meaning given
            by section 8 of the Registration of Criminals Act 1949.

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2022 wef 12/06/2023]

Extraterritorial operation of Act

 4. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, this Act
extends —

       (a) to acts, omissions, matters and things outside Singapore;
            and

       (b) to all persons, regardless of their nationality or citizenship.

Controller and authorised officers

 5.—(1) The Controller is, subject to any general or special
directions of the Minister, responsible for the administration of this

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
9  Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

Act and may perform the duties imposed and may exercise the powers
conferred upon the Controller by this Act.

   (2) The Minister may from time to time give the Controller —

   (a) directions of a general character, and not inconsistent with
        the provisions of this Act, as to the exercise of the powers
        and discretions conferred on the Controller by this Act; and

   (b) the duties required to be discharged by the Controller under
        this Act,

and the Controller must give effect to all such directions given.

 (3) The Controller may delegate the exercise of all or any of the
powers conferred or duties imposed upon the Controller by this Act
(except the power of delegation conferred by this subsection) to any
authorised officer, subject to the conditions or limitations set out in
this Act or that the Controller may specify by directions; and any
reference in this Act to the Controller includes a reference to that
authorised officer.

 (4) In exercising any powers or functions under a delegation under
subsection (3), an authorised officer must comply with the directions
of the Controller.

                                    PART 2

                 ISSUE OF SINGAPORE PASSPORTS
                      AND TRAVEL DOCUMENTS

                    Division 1 — Singapore passports

Application for Singapore passport

 6. An application for a Singapore passport must —

       (a) be made to the Controller in the approved form;

       (b) be accompanied by the applicant’s prescribed particulars
            (which may include personal identifiers), and such other
            particulars, information and documents as may be
            specified by the Controller in any particular case; and

       (c) be accompanied by the fee prescribed (if any).

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        10

Issue of Singapore passport

 7.—(1) Before issuing a Singapore passport to an applicant, the
Controller must be satisfied —

(a) that the applicant is a citizen of Singapore in the case of a
     Singapore ordinary passport;

(b) that the applicant is a citizen of Singapore who is travelling
     for diplomatic or official purposes, or is a dependent of a
     person who is travelling for diplomatic or official
     purposes, in the case of a Singapore diplomatic passport
     or a Singapore official passport; and

          (c) of the identity of the applicant in all cases.

 (2) Every Singapore passport is issued by the Controller for and on
behalf of the Government.

 (3) A Singapore passport may be issued under this section subject
to —

(a) such conditions as may be prescribed for that class of
     Singapore passport; and

(b) any other conditions that the Controller may specify in any
     particular case.

 (4) The Controller may, before issuing a Singapore passport,
require the applicant to furnish to the Controller a monetary
deposit or any other security (by bond or otherwise) that the
Controller may think sufficient to secure the performance or due
observance by the applicant of any conditions imposed under
subsection (3).

Validity of Singapore passport

 8.—(1) Subject to subsection (2) or unless earlier cancelled, every
Singapore ordinary passport is valid for a period not exceeding
6 years for Singapore ordinary passports issued on or after 1 April
2005.

 (2) Unless earlier cancelled, every Singapore diplomatic passport
or Singapore official passport is valid for the period specified in the
passport.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
11  Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

 (3) Despite subsection (1), the Minister may, in any particular case,
if satisfied that good reasons exist and that it would be in the interests
of the proper administration of this Act to do so, direct that any
Singapore ordinary passport be issued for a period shorter than that
stated in that subsection.

 (4) The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, increase the
validity period specified in subsection (1) for all Singapore ordinary
passports issued on or after such date as is specified in the
notification.

                                                                                                        [S 759/2022]

No extension of biometric Singapore passport

 9. Singapore passports that are biometric passports must not be
extended.

Endorsement of Singapore passport

 10.—(1) The Controller may at any time endorse on any Singapore
passport —

       (a) such alterations or additions as may be necessary to render
            accurate the particulars recorded in the Singapore passport
            regarding the identity or status of the holder of that
            Singapore passport; and

       (b) such conditions as may be prescribed for that class of
            Singapore passport or such other conditions as the
            Controller may specify in that particular case.

 (2) The Controller may at any time delete any endorsement made
under subsection (1).

         Division 2 — Singapore temporary travel document

Purpose of Singapore temporary travel document

 11. Subject to section 13 and Part 3, the Controller may issue a
Singapore temporary travel document for and on behalf of the
Government to a citizen of Singapore where —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        12

(a) for reasons of passport security and integrity, the
     Controller considers that it is not desirable to issue that
     citizen with a Singapore passport; or

(b) the Controller is satisfied that there are other exceptional
     circumstances where that citizen is already the holder of a
     Singapore passport.

Application for Singapore temporary travel document

 12. An application for a Singapore temporary travel document
must —

       (a) be made to the Controller in the approved form;

       (b) be accompanied by the applicant’s prescribed particulars
            (which may include personal identifiers), and such other
            particulars, information and documents as may be
            specified by the Controller in any particular case; and

       (c) be accompanied by the fee prescribed, if any.

Issue of Singapore temporary travel document

 13.—(1) Before issuing a Singapore temporary travel document to
any person, the Controller must be satisfied —

       (a) that the applicant is a citizen of Singapore; and

       (b) of the identity of the person.

 (2) Every Singapore temporary travel document is issued by the
Controller for and on behalf of the Government.

 (3) A Singapore temporary travel document may be issued under
this section subject to —

       (a) such conditions as may be prescribed for temporary travel
            documents; and

       (b) such other conditions as the Controller may specify in any
            particular case.

 (4) The Controller may, before issuing a Singapore temporary
travel document, require the applicant to furnish to the Controller a
monetary deposit or any other security (by bond or otherwise) that the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
13  Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

Controller may think sufficient to secure the performance or due
observance by the applicant of any conditions imposed under
subsection (3).

Validity of Singapore temporary travel document

 14.—(1) A Singapore temporary travel document is valid for
one year.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), the Minister may, in any particular case,
if satisfied that good reasons exist and that it would be in the interests
of the proper administration of this Act to do so, direct that any
Singapore temporary travel document be issued for a period shorter
than that stated in that subsection.

 (3) The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, increase the
validity period stated in subsection (1) for all Singapore temporary
travel documents issued on or after such date as is specified in the
notification.

No extension of Singapore temporary travel document
 15. Singapore temporary travel documents must not be extended.

        Division 3 — Emergency and other travel documents

Issue of Singapore document of identity, etc.

 16.—(1) Except as otherwise provided in Part 3, the Controller may
issue a Singapore document of identity or other emergency travel
document to any person where —

       (a) the Controller has reasonable cause to believe that the
            person is a citizen of Singapore;

       (b) the Controller has reasonable cause to believe that —

               (i) the person’s Singapore passport has been lost or
                   stolen or destroyed or is temporarily unavailable; or

              (ii) an emergency has affected the availability of the
                   information necessary to ascertain whether or not
                   that person is already the holder of a Singapore
                   passport; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        14

          (c) the person wishes to travel immediately, but, for reasons of
              passport security and integrity, the Controller considers
              that it is not desirable to issue that person with a Singapore
              passport.

 (2) An application for any Singapore document of identity or other
emergency travel document must —

(a) be made to the Controller in the approved form;

(b) be accompanied by the applicant’s prescribed particulars
     (which may include personal identifiers), and such other
     particulars, information and documents as may be
     specified by the Controller in any particular case; and

          (c) be accompanied by the fee prescribed, if any.

Validity of Singapore document of identity, etc.
 17. A Singapore document of identity or other emergency travel

document in section 16 is valid for such a time as, in the opinion of
the Controller, will be sufficient to enable the person —

       (a) to leave and return to Singapore;
       (b) to return to Singapore; or
       (c) to complete his or her specified journey,
as the case may require.

Issue of other Singapore travel documents

 18.—(1) Subject to subsection (2) and Part 3, the Controller may,
on application to the Controller in circumstances prescribed, issue the
applicant with a Singapore travel document of a kind prescribed,
being a document issued for the purposes of travel.

 (2) Before issuing a Singapore travel document under
subsection (1) to any person, the Controller must be satisfied of the
identity of the person.

 (3) A Singapore travel document may be issued under this section
subject to —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
15  Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

    (a) such conditions as may be prescribed for Singapore travel
         documents of that kind; and

    (b) such other conditions as the Controller may specify in any
         particular case.

 (4) The Controller may, before issuing a Singapore travel
document, require the applicant to furnish to the Controller a
monetary deposit or any other security (by bond or otherwise) that the
Controller may think sufficient to secure the performance or due
observance by the applicant of any conditions imposed under
subsection (3).

 (5) An application for any Singapore travel document in
subsection (1) must —

    (a) be made to the Controller in the approved form;

    (b) be accompanied by the applicant’s prescribed particulars
         (which may include personal identifiers), and such other
         particulars, information and documents as may be
         specified by the Controller in any particular case; and

    (c) be accompanied by the fee prescribed, if any.

                                    PART 3

   REFUSING OR CANCELLING SINGAPORE PASSPORTS
                      AND TRAVEL DOCUMENTS

                            Division 1 — General

When Singapore passport may be refused

 19.—(1) The Controller may, by written notice, refuse a Singapore
passport to any citizen of Singapore.

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), the Controller may, by written
notice, refuse a Singapore passport to any citizen of Singapore if —

       (a) the citizen of Singapore is the holder of another Singapore
            passport or a Singapore travel document that is still valid at
            the time when the Singapore passport applied for is to be
            issued;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        16

(b) a competent authority makes a request under section 24(1)
     to the Controller to refuse the Singapore passport, and
     section 24(4) does not apply;

          (c) the Controller believes on reasonable grounds that the
              citizen —

          (i) is a person mentioned in section 23(1) or 24(5); or

          (ii) has, in the 10 years before the application for the
               Singapore passport is made, been convicted of an
               offence under this Act or the repealed Act, or of an
               arrestable offence against any written law that is
               prescribed; or

(d) the Controller is aware of a circumstance in section 25, 26
     or 27 whereby it would be lawful for the Controller to
     refuse to issue the Singapore passport to the citizen.

When Singapore travel document may be refused

 20.—(1) The Controller may refuse a Singapore travel document to
any person.

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), the Controller may, by written
notice, refuse a Singapore travel document to any person if —

       (a) the person is the holder of another Singapore travel
            document of the same kind and that Singapore travel
            document is still valid at the time when the Singapore
            travel document applied for is to be issued;

       (b) a competent authority makes a request under section 24(1)
            to the Controller to refuse the Singapore travel document,
            and section 24(4) does not apply;

       (c) the Controller believes on reasonable grounds that the
            person —

               (i) is a person mentioned in section 23(1) or 24(5); or

              (ii) has, in the 3 years before the application for the
                   Singapore travel document is made, been convicted
                   of an offence under this Act or the repealed Act, or of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
17  Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

    an arrestable offence against any written law that is
    prescribed; or

    (d) the Controller is aware of a circumstance in section 27
         whereby it would be lawful for the Controller to refuse to
         issue the Singapore travel document to the person.

When Singapore passport, etc., may be cancelled

 21.—(1) The Controller may, by written notice, cancel a Singapore
passport or a Singapore travel document that has been issued to any
person.

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), the Controller may, by written
notice, cancel a Singapore passport or a Singapore travel document
that has been issued to any person if —

       (a) the Singapore passport or Singapore travel document —

               (i) has been reported lost or stolen; or

              (ii) is so damaged or defaced as to render it, in the
                   opinion of the Controller, unsuitable for use;

       (b) the Singapore passport or Singapore travel document is
            still valid at the time when the person applies for, or is
            issued with, another Singapore passport or Singapore
            travel document;

       (c) there is reasonable cause to believe that the particulars
            recorded in the Singapore passport or Singapore travel
            document are incorrect;

       (d) the holder of the Singapore passport or Singapore travel
            document is convicted of —

               (i) in the case of the holder of a Singapore passport —
                   an arrestable offence against any written law which
                   is prescribed for the purposes of section 19(2)(c);

              (ii) in the case of the holder of a Singapore travel
                   document — an arrestable offence against any
                   written law which is prescribed for the purposes of
                   section 20(2)(c); or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        18

          (iii) in any case — an offence under this Act or the
                repealed Act;

          (e) a competent authority makes a request under section 24(1)
              to the Controller to cancel the Singapore passport or
              Singapore travel document, and section 24(4) does not
              apply;

          (f) the Controller believes on reasonable grounds that the
              holder is a person mentioned in section 23(1) or 24(5);

(g) the Controller becomes aware of a circumstance that would
     have required or permitted the Controller to refuse to issue
     a Singapore passport or a Singapore travel document to the
     person because of section 7(1) or 13(1) or of any provision
     in this Part, had the Controller been aware of the
     circumstance immediately before issuing the Singapore
     passport or Singapore travel document, as the case may be;
     or

(h) in the case of a Singapore passport or a Singapore
     temporary travel document — the holder has ceased to
     be a citizen of Singapore.

 (3) The Controller may, without notice, cancel a Singapore passport
or a Singapore travel document that has been issued to any person if
the person dies, or the Singapore passport or Singapore travel
document has expired.

 (4) Every Singapore passport or Singapore travel document that is
cancelled under subsection (1), (2) or (3) is accordingly invalid.

Cancellation of Singapore document of identity, etc.

 22.—(1) Without affecting section 21, the Controller may, by
written notice, recall any Singapore document of identity and cancel
it or retain possession of it where —

       (a) a Singapore passport is issued to the holder of the
            Singapore document of identity;

       (b) another Singapore document of identity is issued under
            section 16 to the holder thereof in substitution for the first
            one;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
19  Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

    (c) there is reasonable cause to believe that the particulars
        recorded in the Singapore document of identity are
        incorrect;

    (d) there is reasonable cause to believe that the Singapore
         document of identity has been obtained by means of any
         false statement or any statement that is false in a material
         particular;

    (e) the Singapore document of identity has expired;

    (f) the Singapore document of identity is so damaged or
        defaced as to render it, in the opinion of the Controller,
        unsuitable for use; or

    (g) the Singapore document of identity has been reported lost
         or stolen.

 (2) Every Singapore document of identity that is cancelled under
subsection (1) is accordingly invalid.

 (3) A reference to a Singapore document of identity in this section
includes a reference to any other emergency travel document issued
under section 16.

 Division 2 — Law enforcement reasons for refusing or cancelling

Reasons relating to law enforcement

 23.—(1) The Controller may cancel any Singapore passport or
Singapore travel document that has been issued to a person, or refuse
to issue any Singapore passport or Singapore travel document to a
person, if the Controller believes on reasonable grounds that —

       (a) the person is the subject of a warrant of arrest issued in
            Singapore in respect of an arrestable offence against any
            written law which is prescribed; or

       (b) the person (including a person who is in prison) is
            prevented from travelling internationally by force of —

               (i) a condition of parole, or of an undertaking or a
                   surety, bail bond or licence for early release from
                   prison, granted under any written law; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        20

          (ii) any written law, or an order or other direction
               (however described) under any written law.

 (2) In this section, “prevented from travelling internationally”
includes being —

(a) required to remain in Singapore;

(b) required to surrender a Singapore passport or a Singapore
     travel document;

          (c) not permitted to apply for a Singapore passport or a
              Singapore travel document; or

(d) not permitted to obtain a Singapore passport or a Singapore
     travel document.

Reasons relating to potential for harmful conduct

 24.—(1) If a competent authority believes on reasonable grounds
that —

       (a) if a Singapore passport or a Singapore travel document
            were issued to a person, the person would be likely to
            engage in conduct that —

               (i) might prejudice the security of Singapore or any
                   other country;

              (ii) might endanger the health or physical safety of other
                   persons (whether in Singapore or another country);

             (iii) might constitute an offence under this Act; or

             (iv) might constitute an arrestable offence against any
                   written law which is prescribed; and

       (b) the person should be refused a Singapore passport or a
            Singapore travel document in order to prevent the person
            from engaging in the conduct,

the competent authority may make a written request to the
Controller —

       (c) to cancel any Singapore passport or Singapore travel
            document that has been issued to the person; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
21  Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

    (d) to refuse to issue any Singapore passport or Singapore
         travel document to the person.

 (2) A competent authority may make a written request to the
Controller under subsection (1) —

    (a) whether or not the person has applied for a Singapore
         passport or a Singapore travel document;

    (b) whether or not a Singapore passport or a Singapore travel
         document has been issued to the person; and

    (c) whether or not that person is a citizen of Singapore.

 (3) If a competent authority makes a written request to the
Controller under subsection (1) in relation to any person, the
Controller may, as the case may be —

    (a) cancel the Singapore passport or Singapore travel
         document of the person; or

    (b) refuse to issue a Singapore passport or a Singapore travel
         document to the person.

 (4) Despite subsection (3), where a competent authority makes a
written request to the Controller under subsection (1) in relation to
any person, the Controller must not —

    (a) cancel the Singapore passport or Singapore travel
         document of the person; or

    (b) refuse to issue a Singapore passport or a Singapore travel
         document to the person,

if that request relating to the person has been withdrawn by the
competent authority or is no longer considered by the Controller to be
current.

 (5) Without affecting subsection (1), the Controller may cancel any
Singapore passport or Singapore travel document issued to a person,
or refuse to issue any Singapore passport or Singapore travel
document to a person, if the Controller believes on reasonable
grounds that —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        22

(a) if a Singapore passport or a Singapore travel document
     were issued to the person, the person would be likely to
     engage in conduct that —

          (i) might prejudice the security of Singapore or any
              other country;

          (ii) might endanger the health or physical safety of other
               persons (whether in Singapore or another country);

          (iii) might constitute an offence under this Act; or

          (iv) might constitute an arrestable offence mentioned in
               subsection (1)(a)(iv); and

(b) the person should be refused a Singapore passport or a
     Singapore travel document in order to prevent the person
     from engaging in the conduct.

 (6) In this section, “competent authority”, in relation to a
circumstance mentioned in subsection (1) or (5) that relates to
Singapore, means any public authority or public officer prescribed by
the regulations to be a competent authority in relation to that
circumstance.

        Division 3 — Other reasons for refusing or cancelling

Repeated loss or thefts of Singapore passports

 25. The Controller may refuse to issue a Singapore passport to a
person if —

       (a) before the passport application under consideration is
            made, 2 or more Singapore passports issued to the person
            have been lost or stolen; and

       (b) for reasons of passport security and integrity, the
            Controller considers that it is not desirable to issue that
            person with another Singapore passport.

Concurrently valid Singapore passports, etc.

 26.—(1) The Controller must not issue a Singapore passport to a
person if the person has already been issued with a Singapore

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
23  Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

passport or a Singapore travel document and that document is still
valid.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not prevent the Controller from issuing a
Singapore passport to the person in any circumstances specified in the
Minister’s directions under section 5(2).

Children

 27.—(1) The Controller must not issue a Singapore passport or a
Singapore travel document to a child unless —

       (a) the following person (whichever is applicable) consents to
            the child travelling internationally:

               (i) a person who has parental responsibility for the
                   child;

              (ii) where the child is the subject of —

                    (A) a voluntary care agreement under which the
                          Director‑General of Social Welfare, a protector
                          or the care‑giver of the child may consent to the
                          child travelling internationally;

                     (B) an order under section 54(1)(b) of the Children
                          and Young Persons Act 1993 under which the
                          Director‑General of Social Welfare, a protector
                          or the care‑giver of the child may consent to the
                          child travelling internationally; or

                     (C) an order under section 56(2) or section 57 (read
                          with section 56) of the Children and Young
                          Persons Act 1993 under which the
                          Director‑General of Social Welfare, a
                          protector or the care‑giver of the child may
                          consent to the child travelling internationally,

              (ii) the Director‑General of Social Welfare, protector or
                   care‑giver, as the case may be; or

       (b) an order of a court permits the child to travel
            internationally.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        24

 (2) In this section, “care-giver”, “protector” and “voluntary care
agreement” have the meanings given by section 2(1) of the Children
and Young Persons Act 1993.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

      Division 4 — Appeals against refusals and cancellations

Appeal to Minister

 28.—(1) If a person is aggrieved by the Controller’s decision under
this Act —

       (a) to refuse to issue a Singapore passport or a Singapore
            travel document;

       (b) to refuse to extend a Singapore passport or a Singapore
            travel document; or

       (c) to cancel a Singapore passport or a Singapore travel
            document,

other than a decision made because of a warrant of arrest issued in
Singapore against the person, the person may, within 14 days after
being notified of the decision (or such longer period as the Minister
allows in exceptional circumstances, whether before or after the end
of the 14 days), appeal to the Minister, whose decision is final.

 (2) An appeal must be in writing, and specify the grounds on which
it is made.

 (3) After receiving an appeal under subsection (1), the Minister
must consider the appeal and —

       (a) reject the appeal and confirm the Controller’s decision;

       (b) allow the appeal in whole or in part and vary the
            Controller’s decision; or

       (c) set aside the Controller’s decision,

and the appellant must be notified in writing of the Minister’s
decision in respect of his or her appeal accordingly.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
25  Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

Minister may designate others to hear appeals

 28A.—(1) The Minister may designate any of the following
persons to hear and determine, in the Minister’s place, any appeal
or a specific appeal under section 28:

    (a) the Second Minister (if any) for his or her Ministry;

    (b) any Minister of State for his or her Ministry;

       (c) any Parliamentary Secretary to his or her Ministry.

                                                                                                           [16/2016]

 (2) Any reference to the Minister in section 28 includes a reference
to a person designated under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [16/2016]

 (3) To avoid doubt, in this section —

    “Minister of State” includes a Senior Minister of State;

    “Parliamentary Secretary” includes a Senior Parliamentary
       Secretary.

                                                              [16/2016]

                                    PART 4

                     POWERS OF ENFORCEMENT

Demand for surrender of suspicious Singapore passports, etc.

 29.—(1) An authorised officer or a police officer may demand that
a person surrender a document to the officer if —

       (a) the document is a Singapore passport or a Singapore travel
            document that has been obtained, or that the authorised
            officer or police officer suspects on reasonable grounds has
            been obtained, by means of a false or misleading statement,
            any false or misleading information or a false or
            misleading document;

       (b) the document is a Singapore passport or a Singapore travel
            document, or other document that has been used or that the
            authorised officer or police officer suspects on reasonable
            grounds has been used, in the commission of any offence
            under this Act; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        26

          (c) the document is —

          (i) a false Singapore passport or a false Singapore travel
              document; or

          (ii) a false foreign travel document.

 (2) Any person having possession or control of any document that
an authorised officer or a police officer demands to be surrendered to
the officer under subsection (1), and who fails to immediately comply
with the demand, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Demand for surrender of cancelled Singapore passports, etc.

 30.—(1) An authorised officer may demand that a person surrender
a Singapore passport or a Singapore travel document to the authorised
officer if —

       (a) the document has been cancelled under section 21 or 22; or

       (b) the document has otherwise ceased to be valid.

 (2) Any person having possession or control of any document that
an authorised officer demands to be surrendered to the officer under
subsection (1), and who fails to immediately comply with the
demand, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or to both.

Search and seizure of cancelled Singapore passports, etc.

 31.—(1) Any authorised officer, police officer or customs officer
may seize a document if —

       (a) the document is not in the possession or control of any
            person; and

       (b) the officer suspects on reasonable grounds that the
            document is a false Singapore passport, a false
            Singapore travel document or a false foreign travel
            document, or a document that has been used in the
            commission of an offence under this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
27        Passports Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

(2) If —

    (a) any authorised officer, police officer or customs officer
         suspects on reasonable grounds that a false Singapore
         passport, a false Singapore travel document or a false
         foreign travel document, or a document that has been used
         in the commission of an offence under this Act, is in a
         container (whether on board any train, vehicle, vessel or
         aircraft, or in any premises); and

    (b) the container is not in the possession or control of any
         person,

the officer may search the container for the purposes of determining
whether the document is inside the container.

 (3) If any authorised officer, police officer or customs officer
suspects on reasonable grounds that a false Singapore passport, a
false Singapore travel document or a false foreign travel document, or
a document that has been used in the commission of an offence under
this Act, is in any premises, or in any train, vehicle, vessel or aircraft,
the officer may, for the purposes of determining whether the
document is inside the premises, train, vehicle, vessel or aircraft —

    (a) without warrant, enter and search the premises, or stop,
         board and search the train, vehicle, vessel or aircraft in or
         on which he or she reasonably suspects that such a
         document is to be found;

    (b) search any person found in such premises, train, vehicle,
         vessel or aircraft;

    (c) remove by force any obstruction to such entry or search;
        and

    (d) seize, remove and detain any document mentioned in this
         subsection found in the premises, train, vehicle, vessel or
         aircraft.

 (4) For the purpose of exercising his or her power under
subsection (2) or (3), an authorised officer, a police officer or a
customs officer may, with such assistance as he or she thinks

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.               Passports Act 2007                           28

necessary, break open any door, window, lock, fastener,
compartment, box, container or any other thing.

 (5) Any search of a person under this section must be conducted by
an officer of the same sex as the person.

 (6) Nothing in this section prevents any authorised officer, police
officer or customs officer conducting a search of a person from
requiring a person to remove any of the person’s clothing.

(7) In this section —

“container” includes baggage, a mail receptacle, and any other
   thing that could be used for the carriage of goods (whether or
   not designed for that purpose);

“train” means —

          (a) a railway locomotive, wagon or carriage; or

          (b) a track vehicle or railway maintenance machine, such
               as a trolley or crane,

          and includes a part of any of the above;

“vehicle” means a conveyance that is designed to be propelled or
   drawn by any means (whether or not capable of being so
   propelled or drawn), and includes any trailer, bicycle or other
   pedal‑powered vehicle, but does not include any train;

“vessel” means any kind of craft used in navigation by sea or
   water, however propelled or moved, and includes —

          (a) a barge, lighter or other floating vessel;

          (b) an air-cushion vehicle, or other similar craft, used
               wholly or primarily in navigation by water;

          (c) a vessel engaged in a towing operation or in any
              dredging, surveying or underwater operations; and

          (d) an installation capable of being attached to the seabed
               and that is bound for, or is at, a port,

          and includes a part of any of the above.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
29  Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

Powers of arrest, detention and prosecution

 32.—(1) The Controller, an immigration officer or a police officer
may arrest without warrant —

    (a) any person committing or attempting to commit any
         offence under this Act; or

    (b) any person whom the Controller, immigration officer or
         police officer reasonably suspects of being engaged in
         committing or attempting to commit any offence under this
         Act.

 (2) Where any person is arrested under subsection (1), the
Controller, immigration officer or police officer making the arrest
must comply with sections 67 and 68 of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010 as if he or she were a police officer.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

 (2A) Any person arrested under subsection (1) may be detained
at —

    (a) a lock-up appointed as a place of confinement under
         section 4(1) of the Prisons Act 1933; or

       (b) an immigration depot designated under the Immigration
            Act 1959.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2024 wef 17/06/2024]

 (3) In any case relating to the commission of an offence under this
Act, an immigration officer has all the powers of a police officer
under the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 in relation to an
investigation into an arrestable offence.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (3), when an immigration officer
is exercising the powers of a police officer under the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010, the immigration officer is deemed to be an
officer not below the rank of inspector of police.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

 (5) The Controller and an immigration officer who is an authorised
officer have the authority to appear in court and may, with the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        30

authorisation of the Public Prosecutor, conduct any prosecution in
respect of any offence under this Act.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2024 wef 17/06/2024]

Bail and bond

 32A.—(1) A person who has been arrested by the Controller, an
immigration officer or a police officer under section 32(1) may be
released on bail or on personal bond granted by the Controller or any
immigration officer.

 (2) Division 5 (Bails and bonds) of Part 6 of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010 applies to the release of a person on bail or on personal
bond under this section or section 92 or 93 of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010 (as the case may be) with the following modifications:

       (a) any reference to “officer”, “police officer” or “police
            officer of or above the rank of sergeant” is to be read to
            include the Controller or an immigration officer;

       (b) the reference to the Commissioner of Police in
            section 92(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 is to
            be read to include the Controller.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2024 wef 17/06/2024]

Identification to be produced during enforcement

 33.—(1) When exercising any powers under this Act, every
immigration officer, police officer and customs officer must —

       (a) if not in uniform, declare his or her office; and

       (b) on demand, produce to any person affected by the exercise
            of those powers any identification card that the Controller,
            the Commissioner of Police or the Director-General of
            Customs (respectively) may direct to be carried by
            immigration officers, police officers or customs officers.

 (2) Despite any provision in this Act, it shall not be an offence for
any person to refuse to comply with any request, demand or order
made or given by any immigration officer, police officer or customs
officer, not in uniform who fails to declare his or her office and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
31  Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

refuses to produce his or her identification card on demand being
made by that person.

                                    PART 5

      OFFENCES RELATING TO SINGAPORE PASSPORTS
                      AND TRAVEL DOCUMENTS

                Division 1 — Application and definitions

Geographical application of this Part

 34. This Part (except section 47) applies —

       (a) whether or not the conduct constituting the alleged offence
            occurred within Singapore; and

       (b) whether or not a result of the conduct constituting the
            alleged offence occurred in Singapore.

Interpretation of this Part

 35.—(1) In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “gain” means —

              (a) a gain in property or a supply of services (whether
                   temporary or permanent); or

              (b) an opportunity to earn remuneration or greater
                   remuneration or to gain a financial advantage
                   otherwise than by way of remuneration;

      “loss” means —

              (a) a loss of property or a supply of services (whether
                   temporary or permanent); or

              (b) any deprivation of an opportunity to earn
                   remuneration or greater remuneration or an
                   opportunity to gain a financial advantage otherwise
                   than by way of remuneration;

      “public duty” means a function that is given to —

              (a) a public officer;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        32

          (b) an employee or a member of a public authority, board
               or tribunal established by or under written law for the
               purposes of a public function; or

          (c) a contractor who exercises a function or performs
              work for the Government or public authority
              mentioned in paragraph (b),

          as such, and includes every person who is in actual
          possession of the situation of a person mentioned in
          paragraph (a), (b) or (c), whatever legal defect there may
          be in the firstmentioned person’s right to hold that situation.

 (2) A person is treated for the purposes of this Part as making a false
Singapore passport, a false Singapore travel document or a false
foreign travel document if the person alters a document so as to make
it false in any respect (whether or not it was already a false document
before the alteration or is false in some other respect apart from that
alteration).

 (3) In this Part, any reference to inducing a person to accept a false
document as genuine, or a copy of a false document as a copy of a
genuine one, includes a reference to inducing a machine to respond to
the document or copy as if it were a genuine document or copy of a
genuine one.

                           Division 2 — Offences

Falsifying Singapore passports, etc.

 36.—(1) If a person —

       (a) makes a false Singapore passport or a false Singapore
            travel document; or

       (b) makes a copy of a document which he or she knows, or
            ought reasonably to know, to be a false Singapore passport
            or a false Singapore travel document,

with the intention of dishonestly inducing another person to accept it
as genuine, and by reason of the other person so accepting it as
genuine, dishonestly —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
33                 Passports Act 2007                         2020 Ed.

    (c) obtains a gain (whether for himself or herself or someone
        else);

    (d) causes a loss to the other person or someone else; or

    (e) influences the exercise of a public duty,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 10 years or to both.

(2) If a person —

    (a) uses a false Singapore passport or a false Singapore travel
         document which he or she knows, or ought reasonably to
         have known, to be a false Singapore passport or a false
         Singapore travel document; or

    (b) uses a copy of a document which he or she knows, or ought
         reasonably to have known, to be a copy of a false
         Singapore passport or a false Singapore travel document,

with the intention of dishonestly inducing another person to accept it
as genuine, and by reason of the other person so accepting it as
genuine, dishonestly —

    (c) obtains a gain (whether for himself or herself or someone
        else);

    (d) causes a loss to the other person or someone else; or

    (e) influences the exercise of a public duty,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 10 years or to both.

(3) If a person —

    (a) makes or adapts; or

    (b) has in his or her possession or under his or her control,

a device, machine, paper, material or other thing —

    (c) knowing that the device, machine, paper, material or other
        thing is or has been specially designed or adapted for the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.           Passports Act 2007                               34

          making of a false Singapore passport or a false Singapore
          travel document; and

(d) with the intention that the person or someone else will use
     the device, machine, paper, material or other thing, to make
     a false Singapore passport or a false Singapore travel
     document, or a copy of a Singapore passport or a Singapore
     travel document,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 10 years or to both.

(4) If a person —

(a) makes or adapts; or

(b) has in his or her possession or under his or her control,

a device, machine, paper, material or other thing knowing that the
device, machine, paper, material or other thing is or has been
specially designed or adapted for the making of a false Singapore
passport or a false Singapore travel document, or a copy of a
Singapore passport or a Singapore travel document, the person shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years
or to both.

 (5) Subsections (3)(b) and (4)(b) do not apply if the person has a
reasonable excuse.

 (6) In this section, any reference to a machine includes a reference
to any disk, tape, drive or other device on or in which a program is
recorded or stored by mechanical, electronic or other means, being a
program designed or adapted to enable a document to be made or to
assist in its making.

Possessing false Singapore passports, etc.

 37.—(1) If —

       (a) a person has possession or control of a false Singapore
            passport or a false Singapore travel document; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
35  Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

    (b) the person knows or ought reasonably to have known that
         the document is a false Singapore passport or a false
         Singapore travel document,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 10 years or to both.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the person has a reasonable
excuse.

Bringing, taking or sending false Singapore passports, etc.,
across international borders

 38.—(1) If —

       (a) a person —

               (i) brings a document into a country;

              (ii) takes a document out of a country; or

             (iii) sends a document to or from a country; and

       (b) the person knows or ought reasonably to have known
            that —

               (i) the document is a false Singapore passport or a false
                   Singapore travel document; or

              (ii) the document is a Singapore passport or a Singapore
                   travel document that is not issued to that person,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 10 years or to both.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the person has a reasonable
excuse.

Making or giving false or misleading statements or information

 39.—(1) If —

       (a) a person makes a statement (whether orally, in writing or
            any other way) or gives information to another person;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        36

(b) the statement or information —

          (i) is false or misleading; or

          (ii) omits any matter or thing without which the
               statement or information is misleading;

          (c) the person knows that the statement or information is as
              described in paragraph (b); and

(d) the statement is made or the information is given in, or in
     connection with —

          (i) an application for a Singapore passport or a
              Singapore travel document (whether for that person
              or for another);

          (ii) an application for an endorsement or extension of a
               Singapore passport or a Singapore travel document
               (whether for that person or for another); or

          (iii) a report of the loss, theft or destruction of a
                Singapore passport or a Singapore travel document
                (whether or not belonging to that person),

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 10 years or to both.

(2) Subsection (1) does not apply —

(a) if the statement or information is not false or misleading in
     a material particular; or

(b) if the statement or information did not omit any matter or
     thing without which the statement or information is
     misleading in a material particular.

(3) In this section, “information” includes any personal identifier.

Providing false or misleading documents
 40.—(1) If —
       (a) a person provides a document to another person;
       (b) the document is false or misleading;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
37  Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

    (c) the person knows that the document is false or misleading;
        and

    (d) the document is provided in, or in connection with, an
         application for a Singapore passport or a Singapore travel
         document (whether for that person or for another),

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 10 years or to both.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the document is not false or
misleading in a material particular.

Improper use or possession of Singapore passports, etc.

 41.—(1) If —

       (a) a person uses a Singapore passport or a Singapore travel
            document in connection with travel or identification;

       (b) the Singapore passport or Singapore travel document has
            been cancelled; and

       (c) the person knows or ought reasonably to have known that
            the Singapore passport or Singapore travel document has
            been cancelled,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 10 years or to both.

 (2) If —

       (a) a person uses a Singapore passport or a Singapore travel
            document in connection with travel or identification;

       (b) the Singapore passport or Singapore travel document was
            not issued to that person; and

       (c) the person knows or ought reasonably to have known that
            the Singapore passport or Singapore travel document was
            not issued to him or her,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        38

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 10 years or to both.

(3) If —

(a) a person (A) provides another person (B) with a Singapore
     passport or a Singapore travel document that was issued to
     A; and

(b) A is reckless as to whether the document is or will be used
     by B in connection with travel or identification,

A shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 3 years or to both.

(4) If —

(a) a person has or retains possession or control of a Singapore
     passport or a Singapore travel document; and

(b) the person knows that the Singapore passport or Singapore
     travel document was not issued to him or her,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 10 years or to both.

 (5) Subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4) do not apply if the person has a
reasonable excuse.

Selling Singapore passport, etc.

 42.—(1) A person who sells a Singapore passport or a Singapore
travel document shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 10 years or to both.

 (2) A person who engages in the business or trade of selling
Singapore passports or Singapore travel documents shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be punished with imprisonment for a
presumptive minimum term of not less than 2 years but not more

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
39  Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

than 15 years and shall also be punished with a fine not exceeding
$20,000.

                                                                                                           [15/2019]

 (3) In this section, “sell” includes barter and exchange, offering or
attempting to sell, exposing for sale, or receiving or sending or
delivering for sale.

Damaging Singapore passport, etc.

 43. If a person, without reasonable excuse, damages or destroys a
Singapore passport or a Singapore travel document, the person shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $3,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years
or to both.

Dishonestly obtaining Singapore passport, etc.

 44.—(1) If a person —

       (a) buys or offers to buy a Singapore passport or a Singapore
            travel document; or

       (b) obtains a Singapore passport or a Singapore travel
            document dishonestly, or by threats,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 10 years or to both.

 (2) In this section —

      “obtain” includes —

              (a) obtain for another person; and

              (b) induce a third person to do something that results in
                   another person obtaining;

      “threat” includes a threat that is express or implied, conditional
         or unconditional.

Failure to notify loss of Singapore passport, etc.

 45.—(1) A person to whom a Singapore passport or a Singapore
travel document is issued shall be guilty of an offence if —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        40

(a) the Singapore passport or Singapore travel document
     issued to the person is lost, stolen or destroyed;

(b) the person knows that the Singapore passport or Singapore
     travel document has been either lost, stolen or destroyed;
     and

          (c) the person fails to report the loss, theft or destruction to an
              authorised officer within 14 days after the first time the
              person knows that the Singapore passport or Singapore
              travel document has been either lost, stolen or destroyed.

 (2) In the case where the person to whom a Singapore passport or a
Singapore travel document is issued is a child, any person who has
parental responsibility for the child shall be guilty of an offence if —

(a) the Singapore passport or Singapore travel document
     issued to the child is lost, stolen or destroyed;

(b) the person who has parental responsibility for the child
     knows that the Singapore passport or Singapore travel
     document has been either lost, stolen or destroyed; and

          (c) the person who has parental responsibility for the child
              fails to report the loss, theft or destruction to an authorised
              officer within 14 days after the first time the person knows
              that the Singapore passport or Singapore travel document
              has been either lost, stolen or destroyed.

 (3) Any person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) or
(2) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $3,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (4) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply if the person, or the person
who has parental responsibility for the child (as the case may be) has a
reasonable excuse.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
41            Passports Act 2007                              2020 Ed.

Failure to surrender cancelled or invalid Singapore passport,
etc.

46.—(1) If —

    (a) the person to whom a Singapore passport or a Singapore
         temporary travel document ceases to be a citizen of
         Singapore;

    (b) the person knows that he or she has ceased to be a citizen of
         Singapore; and

    (c) the person fails to surrender his or her Singapore passport
        or Singapore temporary travel document to an authorised
        officer within 24 hours after the first time the person knows
        that he or she ceased to be a citizen of Singapore,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $3,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (2) In the case where the person to whom a Singapore passport or a
Singapore temporary travel document is issued is a child, any person
who has parental responsibility for the child shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$3,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both
if —

    (a) the child ceases to be a citizen of Singapore;

    (b) the person who has parental responsibility for the child
         knows that the child has ceased to be a citizen of
         Singapore; and

    (c) the person who has parental responsibility for the child
        fails to surrender the child’s Singapore passport or
        Singapore temporary travel document to an authorised
        officer within 24 hours after the first time the person knows
        that the child ceased to be a citizen of Singapore.

 (3) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply if the person, or the person
who has parental responsibility for the child (as the case may be) has a
reasonable excuse.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.      Passports Act 2007                                    42

Offences relating to false foreign travel documents

47.—(1) If —

(a) a person makes a false foreign travel document in
     Singapore, or provides a false foreign travel document to
     another person in Singapore;

(b) the person does so with the intention of dishonestly
     inducing another person to use or accept the false foreign
     travel document as if it were a genuine foreign travel
     document; and

          (c) by reason of the other person so using or accepting the false
              foreign travel document as genuine, the person
              dishonestly —

          (i) obtains a gain (whether for himself or herself or
              someone else);

          (ii) causes a loss to the other person or someone else; or

          (iii) influences the exercise of a public duty,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 10 years or to both.

(2) If —

(a) a person uses in Singapore a foreign travel document in
     connection with travel or identification;

(b) the foreign travel document has been cancelled; and

          (c) the person knows or ought reasonably to have known that
              the foreign travel document has been cancelled,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 10 years or to both.

(3) If —

(a) a person uses in Singapore a foreign travel document in
     connection with travel or identification;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
43        Passports Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) the foreign travel document was not issued to that person;
         and

    (c) the person knows or ought reasonably to have known that
        the foreign travel document was not issued to that person,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 10 years or to both.

(4) If —

    (a) a person (A) provides another person (B) in Singapore with
         a foreign travel document that was issued to A; and

    (b) A is reckless as to whether the document is or will be used
         by B in connection with travel or identification,

A shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 10 years or to both.

(5) If —

    (a) a person has or retains possession or control in Singapore
         of a foreign travel document; and

    (b) the person knows that the foreign travel document was not
         issued to him or her,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 10 years or to both.

(6) If —

    (a) a person has possession or control of a document; and

    (b) the person knows or ought reasonably to have known that
         the document is a false foreign travel document,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 10 years or to both.

 (7) Subsections (2) to (6) do not apply if the person has a reasonable
excuse.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        44

Extended criminal jurisdiction for false foreign travel
documents within Singapore designated area

 47A.—(1) Any conduct engaged in by a person in a Singapore
designated area of a cross-border railway that, if engaged in within
Singapore, would constitute an offence under section 47(1), (2), (3),
(4), (5) or (6) is to be treated for the purposes of that provision as if the
person engaged in that conduct in Singapore.

 (2) A person who engages in any conduct mentioned in
subsection (1) may be tried and punished for that conduct by a
court in Singapore.

 (3) To be clear, it does not matter whether the conduct engaged in
constitutes an offence under the laws of Malaysia, and this section
does not affect sections 39 and 40 of the Cross-Border Railways
(Border Control Co-location) Act 2026.

 (4) Sections 29, 30 and 31(1) extend to apply to and in relation to
any document and any person within a Singapore designated area of a
cross-border railway in connection with an offence mentioned in
subsection (1), subject to the following modifications:

(a) any reference to an authorised officer, customs officer or
     police officer is a reference to an authorised officer,
     customs officer or police officer who is a Singapore
     preclearance officer;

(b) any reference to demanding the surrender, seizing or taking
     possession of any document from any person includes a
     reference to transferring custody of the document
     surrendered, seized or taken to a Malaysian border
     protection service officer without delay.

 (5) To be clear, section 32 does not apply to or in relation to any
person who engaged in any conduct mentioned in subsection (1) until
the person is within Singapore.

 (6) In this section, “cross-border railway”, “Malaysian border
protection service officer”, “Singapore designated area” and
“Singapore preclearance officer” have the meanings given by

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
45  Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

section 3(1) of the Cross-Border Railways (Border Control Co-
location) Act 2026.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

Unauthorised issue of Singapore passports, etc.

 48. If —

       (a) the Controller; or

       (b) an authorised officer to whom the Controller has delegated
            the function of issuing Singapore passports or Singapore
            travel documents,

does any of the following acts, the Controller or authorised officer (as
the case may be) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 10 years or to both:

       (c) issue a Singapore passport or a Singapore travel document
            or part thereof knowing that the issue of the Singapore
            passport or Singapore travel document or that part thereof
            is contrary to a provision of this Act;

       (d) endorse a Singapore passport or a Singapore travel
            document knowing that the endorsement of the
            Singapore passport or Singapore travel document is
            contrary to a provision of this Act.

Obstructing authorised officer, etc.

 49. Any person who refuses to give access to, or obstructs, hinders
or delays any authorised officer, police officer or customs officer in
the performance and execution of the officer’s duty or of anything the
officer is required to do by virtue or in consequence of or under this
Act, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 2 years or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        46

          Division 3 — General provisions

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 50.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     an officer; or

(b) to be attributable to any act or default on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with his or her functions of management as if
he or she were a director of the body corporate.

                                                                                                             [2/2012]

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     a partner; or

(b) to be attributable to any act or default on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by a limited
liability partnership is proved to have been committed with the
consent or connivance of, or to be attributable to any neglect on the
part of, a partner or manager of the limited liability partnership, the
partner or manager (as the case may be) as well as the partnership
shall be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly.

 (5) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
     its governing body; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
47                     Passports Act 2007                     2020 Ed.

    (b) to be attributable to any act or default on the part of such an
         officer or a member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(6) In this section —

    “body corporate” and “partnership” exclude a limited liability
       partnership within the meaning of the Limited Liability
       Partnerships Act 2005;

    “officer” —

    (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
         member of the committee of management, chief
         executive, manager, secretary or other similar officer
         of the body corporate and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity; and

    (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
         than a partnership), means the president, the secretary
         or any member of the committee of the
         unincorporated association, or any person holding a
         position analogous to that of the president, secretary
         or member of the committee and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (7) The regulations may provide for the application of any
provision of this section, with any modifications that the Minister
considers appropriate, to any body corporate or unincorporated
association formed or recognised under the law of a territory outside
Singapore.

Jurisdiction of court

 51. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment in
respect of the offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        48

Composition of offences

 52.—(1) The Controller may compound any offence under this Act
that may be prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from
a person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
not exceeding $500.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money under subsection (1), no
further proceedings are to be taken against that person in respect of
the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                    PART 6

OBLIGATIONS RELATING TO IDENTIFYING INFORMATION

Interpretation of this Part

 53. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “disclose”, in relation to identifying information that is a
         personal identifier, includes providing access to the
         identifying information;

      “identifying information” means —

              (a) any personal identifier;

              (b) any meaningful identifier derived from any personal
                   identifier;

              (c) any record of a result of analysing any personal
                   identifier or meaningful identifier derived from any
                   personal identifier; or

              (d) any other information, derived from any personal
                   identifier or meaningful identifier derived from any
                   personal identifier, or from any record of a kind
                   mentioned in paragraph (c), that could be used to
                   discover a particular person’s identity or to get
                   information about a particular person.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
49  Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

Methods and technologies for travel documents

 54.—(1) The Minister may approve the methods and technologies
(including biometric technologies) to be used by the Controller —

    (a) for the purposes of confirming the validity of evidence of
         the identity of an applicant for a Singapore passport or a
         Singapore travel document or to whom a Singapore
         passport or a Singapore travel document has been issued;

    (b) for the purposes of issuing biometric passports and travel
         documents under this Act; or

    (c) for performing other functions in connection with this Act.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not imply that methods or technologies not
approved cannot be used for performing functions in connection with
this Act.

Authorising disclosure of or access to identifying information

 55.—(1) The Minister may, in writing, authorise a specified person,
or any person included in a specified class of persons —

       (a) to access identifying information of the kind specified in
            the Minister’s authorisation; or

       (b) to disclose, on written request, identifying information of
            the kind specified in the Minister’s authorisation, to
            another specified person, or another person included in a
            specified class of persons, in the Minister’s authorisation,

for the purpose or purposes specified in the Minister’s authorisation.

 (2) The Minister must specify in an authorisation under this section,
as the purpose or purposes for which access or disclosure is
authorised, one or more of the following purposes, and no other:

       (a) assisting in the identification of, and authenticating the
            identity of, any applicant for or holder of a Singapore
            passport or a Singapore travel document;

       (b) facilitating or otherwise assisting the international travel of
            a person to whom a Singapore travel document has been
            issued;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        50

          (c) enforcement of the criminal law, including investigating or
              prosecuting a person for an offence against any written
              law;

(d) combating document and identity fraud in immigration
     matters;

          (e) administering or managing the storage of identifying
              information;

          (f) modifying identifying information to enable it to be
              matched with other identifying information, or in order
              to correct errors or ensure compliance with appropriate
              standards;

(g) identifying persons who are of national security concern,
     or who are associated with activities of a criminal nature
     and whose detention or supervision may be necessary in
     the interests of public safety, peace and good order;

(h) any other purpose the disclosure of which is required or
     authorised by or under written law;

          (i) making decisions under this Act or the Immigration
              Act 1959 or under the regulations made under either Act.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1)(b), the specified person or
specified class of persons to whom identifying information may be
disclosed may include a police force, a law enforcement body or a
border control body of a foreign country.

Accessing or disclosing identifying information

 56.—(1) If a person accesses identifying information, and the
person —

       (a) is not authorised under section 55 to access any identifying
            information; or

       (b) is not authorised under section 55 to access the identifying
            information for the purpose for which the person accessed
            it,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
51  Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (2) If a person’s conduct causes disclosure of identifying
information, and the disclosure is not a disclosure that is for any of
the purposes specified in section 55(2), the person shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

                                    PART 7

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Singapore passports, etc., are property of Government

 57.—(1) Every Singapore passport and every Singapore travel
document, whether issued before, on or after 1 December 2007, is the
property of the Government.

 (2) The right in a Singapore passport or a Singapore travel
document conferred on the Government by subsection (1) is not
defeated or affected by any sale of, or any security, pledge, deposit or
encumbrance given, made or accepted in respect of, the Singapore
passport or Singapore travel document, by the holder thereof or by
any other person.

 (3) A person must not give, make or accept as a security, pledge,
deposit or encumbrance, a Singapore passport or a Singapore travel
document, and any term of an agreement which would otherwise have
that effect is void.

Power to exempt

 58. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, with or without
conditions, exempt any person or class or description of persons from
the operation of any or all of the provisions of this Act.

Service of documents, etc.

 59.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), any document required or
authorised to be served under this Act may be served —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        52

(a) in the case of an individual —

          (i) by delivering it to the individual personally;

          (ii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently resident
               at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post to, the
               usual or last known address of the individual’s place
               of residence;

          (iii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently
                employed at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
                post to, the usual or last known address of the
                individual’s place of business;

          (iv) by affixing a copy of the notice in a conspicuous
               place at the usual or last known address of the
               individual’s place of residence or business;

          (v) by sending it by fax to —

          (A) the fax number operated at the usual or last
               known address of the place of residence or
               business of the individual; or

          (B) the last fax number given to the Controller or
               an authorised officer by the individual as the
               fax number for the service of documents on the
               individual; or

          (vi) by sending an electronic communication of the
               document to the last email address given to the
               Controller or an authorised officer by the individual
               as the email address for the service of documents on
               the individual;

(b) in the case of a partnership other than a limited liability
     partnership —

          (i) by delivering it to any one of the partners or the
              secretary or other like officer of the partnership;

          (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
               post to, the principal or last known place of business
               of the partnership in Singapore;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
53  Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

    (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
          principal or last known place of business of the
          partnership in Singapore; or

    (iv) by sending an electronic communication of the
         document to the last email address given to the
         Controller or an authorised officer by the partnership
         as the email address for the service of documents on
         the partnership; and

    (c) in the case of any limited liability partnership or any other
        body corporate —

    (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other like officer
        of the body corporate or, in the case of a limited
        liability partnership, the manager of the limited
        liability partnership;

    (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
         post to, the registered office or principal office of the
         limited liability partnership or body corporate in
         Singapore;

    (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
          registered office or principal office of the limited
          liability partnership or body corporate in Singapore;
          or

    (iv) by sending an electronic communication of the
         document to the last email address given to the
         Controller or an authorised officer by the limited
         liability partnership or body corporate as the email
         address for the service of documents on the limited
         liability partnership or body corporate.

 (2) Where any notice or other document to be served by the
Controller or the Minister is —

    (a) sent by fax to the fax number operated at the last known
         place of residence or business or registered office or
         principal office in accordance with subsection (1), it is
         deemed to have been duly served on the person to whom it
         is addressed on the day of transmission, subject to receipt

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                        54

          on the sending fax machine of a notification (by electronic
          or other means) of a successful transmission to the place of
          residence or business or registered office or principal
          office;

(b) sent by electronic communication to an email address in
     accordance with subsection (1), it is deemed to have been
     duly served on the person to whom it is addressed at the
     time of entering the information system addressed to the
     email address; and

          (c) sent by prepaid registered post, it is deemed to have been
              duly served on the person to whom it is addressed 2 days
              after the day the notice or document was posted, whether or
              not it is returned undelivered.

 (3) Service of any document under this Act on a person by
electronic communication may be effected only if the person gives as
part of the person’s address for service an email address.

 (4) This section does not apply to notices and documents to be
served in proceedings in court.

Regulations

 60.—(1) The Minister may make regulations necessary or
convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to the
provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may make
regulations for or with respect to all or any of the following matters:

       (a) the form or particulars of application for the issue or
            extension of, or for an endorsement on, a Singapore
            passport or a Singapore travel document;

       (b) the conditions subject to which a Singapore passport or a
            Singapore travel document may be issued or extended;

       (c) the powers of inspection and examination of authorised
            officers in relation to Singapore passports or Singapore
            travel documents;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
55  Passports Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

    (d) the procedure as regards the lodging of an appeal under
         section 28 and the practice and procedure upon the hearing
         of such an appeal;

    (e) the fees to be paid in respect of any matter or anything
        done, or any services rendered, by the Controller under or
        by virtue of this Act, including —

    (i) fees in respect of applications for Singapore
        passports and Singapore travel documents; and

    (ii) fees in respect of endorsements on Singapore
         passports and Singapore travel documents;

    (f) the waiver or refund, in whole or in part, by authorised
        officers of any fee mentioned in paragraph (e) in the
        circumstances of any particular case; and

    (g) the prescribing of anything that is required or permitted to
         be prescribed under this Act.

(3) The regulations may —

    (a) provide that any contravention of any provision of the
         regulations shall be an offence punishable with a fine not
         exceeding $5,000 or with imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 3 years or with both;

    (b) prescribe different fees for different classes of applicants
         for Singapore passports or Singapore travel documents,
         and for different classes of Singapore travel documents,
         and any application fee so prescribed need not bear any
         relationship to the cost of issuing a Singapore passport or a
         Singapore travel document or endorsing on a Singapore
         passport or a Singapore travel document; and

    (c) provide for such transitional, saving and other
        consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions as
        the Minister considers necessary or expedient.

 (4) All regulations made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Passports Act 2007                                                56

Saving and transitional provisions

 61.—(1) Every person who, immediately before 1 December 2007,
is an authorised officer under the repealed Act continues in such
appointments as if he or she is an authorised officer under this Act,
and his or her appointment expires on the day his or her appointment
would have expired if this Act had not been enacted.

 (2) Any subsidiary legislation made under the repealed Act and in
force immediately before 1 December 2007, so far as it is not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, continues in force as if
made under this Act until it is revoked or repealed.

 (3) Any written law or document referring to the repealed Act or
any provision of the repealed Act is, as far as may be necessary for
preserving its effect, to be construed as referring or as including a
reference to this Act or the corresponding provision in this Act, as the
case may be.

             THE SCHEDULE                                           Section 3

          PERSONAL IDENTIFIERS

1. A person’s fingerprint or handprint (taken using paper and ink, digital
   scanning technologies or otherwise).

2. A photograph or other image of a person’s face and shoulders.
3. A person’s signature.
4. An image of a person’s iris (taken using iris scanning technologies).

                                                                    [S 705/2016]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                          PASSPORTS ACT 2007

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                  PART 1
                     PASSPORTS ORDINANCE
           (CHAPTER 103, 1955 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance 2 of 1920 — Passport Ordinance, 1920

Bill                     : G.N. No. 83/1920

First, Second and Third  : 19 January 1920
Readings

Commencement             : 26 January 1920

2. Ordinance 26 of 1921 — Statute Laws (Revised Edition) Operation
                                    Ordinance, 1921

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with Schedule A to the above
   Ordinance)

Bill                     : G.N. No. 1854/1921

First and Second Readings : 22 November 1921

Notice of Amendments     : 22 November 1921

Third Reading            : 22 November 1921

Commencement             : 28 November 1921 (section 2 read
                               with Schedule A)

3. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 176 (Passports)

Operation                : 1 August 1926

4. 1936 Revised Edition — Passports Ordinance (Chapter 94)

Operation                : 1 September 1936

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                ii

5. 1955 Revised Edition — Passports Ordinance (Chapter 103)

Operation       : 1 July 1956

                                  PART 2
                           PASSPORTS ACT
           (CHAPTER 220, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

6. Act 51 of 1970 — Passports Act, 1970

Bill            : 53/1970

First Reading   : 4 November 1970

Second and Third Readings : 30 December 1970

Commencement    : 25 January 1971

7. 1985 Revised Edition — Passports Act (Chapter 220)

Operation       : 30 March 1987

                            PART 3
                  PASSPORTS ACT 2007
                (2020 REVISED EDITION)

8. Act 33 of 2007 — Passports Act 2007

Bill            : 21/2007

First Reading   : 21 May 2007

Second and Third Readings : 16 July 2007

Commencement    : 1 December 2007

9. 2008 Revised Edition — Passports Act (Chapter 220)

Operation       : 31 December 2008

10. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 73 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill            : 11/2010

First Reading   : 26 April 2010

Second Reading  : 18 May 2010

Third Reading   : 19 May 2010

Commencement    : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                      item 73 of the Sixth Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                      iii

11. Act 2 of 2012 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2012
     (Amendments made by section 30 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 22/2011

First Reading         : 21 November 2011

Second Reading        : 18 January 2012

Notice of Amendments  : 18 January 2012

Third Reading         : 18 January 2012

Commencement          : 1 March 2012 (section 30)

12. Act 16 of 2016 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2016
     (Amendments made by section 25 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 15/2016

First Reading         : 14 April 2016

Second and Third Readings : 9 May 2016

Commencement          : 10 June 2016 (section 25)

13. G.N. No. S 705/2016 — Passports Act (Amendment of Schedule)
                                    Order 2016

Commencement          : 1 January 2017

14. Act 15 of 2019 — Criminal Law Reform Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 182 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 6/2019

First Reading         : 11 February 2019

Second Reading        : 6 May 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 6 May 2019

Third Reading         : 6 May 2019

Commencement          : 1 January 2020 (section 182)

15. Act 30 of 2019 — Children and Young Persons (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 69 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 22/2019

First Reading         : 5 August 2019

Second Reading        : 3 September 2019

Third Reading         : 4 September 2019

Commencement          : 1 July 2020 (section 69)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
               iv

16. 2020 Revised Edition — Passports Act 2007

Operation      : 31 December 2021

17. G.N. No. S 759/2022 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Rectification of
                                    Acts) (No. 2) Order 2022

Operation      : 31 December 2021

Publication    : 26 September 2022

18. Act 26 of 2022 — Registration of Criminals (Amendment) Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 19/2022

First Reading  : 1 August 2022

Second and Third Readings : 12 September 2022

Commencement   : 12 June 2023

19. Act 16 of 2024 — Law Enforcement and Other Matters Act 2024
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 14/2024

First Reading  : 7 March 2024

Second and Third Readings : 2 April 2024

Commencement   : 17 June 2024

20. Act 16 of 2026 — Cross-Border Railways (Border Control Co-location)
                             Act 2026

     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 10/2026

First Reading  : 7 April 2026

Second and Third Readings : 5 May 2026

Commencement   : 30 September 2026

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
.                                 v
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                           COMPARATIVE TABLE
                           PASSPORTS ACT 2007

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2008 Ed.
[Omitted as spent]         9—(2)
[Omitted as spent]
[Omitted as spent]            (3)
—                             (4)
32—(4)                     28—(4) [Deleted by Act 16 of 2016]
                           32—(3A)
   (5)                        (4)
[Omitted as spent]         61—(1)
[Omitted as spent]            (2)
61—(1)                        (3)
                              (4)
   (2)                        (5)
   (3)                        (6)
[Omitted as spent]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
