         VETERINARY PRACTICE ACT 2026

         (No. 11 of 2026)

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

Section

1. Short title and commencement

                                       PART 1
                                 PRELIMINARY

2. Interpretation
3. Duly qualified veterinarian

                                        PART 2

                            VETERINARY COUNCIL

 4. Establishment of Veterinary Council
 5. Functions of Council
 6. President of Council
 7. Disqualifications from membership of Council
 8. Removal of member of Council
 9. Resignation of member of Council
10. Filling of vacancies
11. Validity of acts, etc.
12. Meetings of Council and payment of members of Council
13. Appointment and establishment of committees and delegation of

         powers

                                        PART 3

                   REGISTRATION OF VETERINARIANS

14. Registrar of Council
15. Registers
16. Alterations in registers
17. Full registration
18. Restricted registration
19. Registration of specialists
20. Power to amend, vary or revoke condition or restriction, etc.
21. Application for registration, etc.

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
2        NO. 11 OF 2026

Section  Certificate of registration
   22.   Practising certificate
   23.   Publication of list of duly qualified veterinarians
   24.   Registered veterinarians to use only qualifications entered in
   25.   registers and approved titles, etc.
         Cancellation of registration
   26.   Restoration of registration cancelled under section 26
   27.   Registrar’s certificate
   28.

                                           PART 4

                      OFFENCES AND RELATED MATTERS

   29. Prohibition of practice of veterinary medicine
   30. Unauthorised individual acting as duly qualified

            veterinarian, etc.
   31. Causing or permitting another to make representation of oneself

            as duly qualified veterinarian, etc.
   32. Making representation of another as duly qualified

            veterinarian, etc.
   33. Liability of registered veterinarian for enabling another to act in

            contravention of section 30
   34. False assumption of title of specialist
   35. Making representation of another as specialist, etc.
   36. Fraudulent registration as registered veterinarian, etc.

                                           PART 5

          DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS AND OTHER MATTERS

                       Division 1 — Voluntary cancellation and
                             suspension of registration, etc.

   37. Request for voluntary cancellation or suspension of
            registration, etc.

   38. Voluntary cancellation or suspension of registration, etc.

                Division 2 — Inquiries into complaints against and
                      information about registered veterinarians

   39. Appointment of Complaints Panel
   40. Bringing disciplinary case against registered veterinarian
   41. Referral of disciplinary case to Registrar
   42. Limitation period for referral of disciplinary case

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
               VETERINARY PRACTICE                                          3

Section  Assessment of disciplinary case for referral to Registrar despite
   43.   limitation period
         Review of disciplinary case by Registrar
   44.   Findings and recommendation of Registrar
   45.   Decision of Council after recommendation by Registrar
   46.

         Division 3 — Complaints Assessment Committees

47. Appointment of Complaints Assessment Committee
48. Powers and procedures of Complaints Assessment Committee
49. Appointment of experts and legal counsel for inquiry before

         Complaints Assessment Committee
50. Findings and recommendation of Complaints Assessment

         Committee
51. Decision of Council after recommendation by Complaints

         Assessment Committee

               Division 4 — Mediation

52. Mediation

               Division 5 — Disciplinary Committees

53. Appointment of Disciplinary Committee
54. Powers and procedures of Disciplinary Committee
55. Appointment of experts and legal counsel for formal inquiry

         before Disciplinary Committee
56. Findings and order of Disciplinary Committee
57. Further orders by Disciplinary Committee
58. Right of hearing before Disciplinary Committee
59. Service of notice of order
60. When order by Disciplinary Committee takes effect
61. Effect of order of suspension
62. Appeal against Disciplinary Committee’s decision or order

         Division 6 — Interim Orders Committees

63. Appointment of Interim Orders Committee
64. Powers and procedures of Interim Orders Committee
65. Appointment of experts and legal counsel for inquiry or review

         before Interim Orders Committee
66. Interim orders
67. Review of interim orders
68. Interim Orders Committee may revoke, vary or replace interim

         order, etc.

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
4        NO. 11 OF 2026

Section  Right of hearing before Interim Orders Committee
         Application to General Division of High Court
   69.   Duration of interim orders
   70.   Effect of interim suspension order
   71.
   72.

         Division 7 — Investigations

   73. Conduct of investigation by investigator
   74. Investigation report and information obtained in course of

            investigation

         Division 8 — Withdrawal of disciplinary case

   75. Withdrawal of disciplinary case

         Division 9 — Miscellaneous

   76. Restoration of registration cancelled under this Part
   77. Meetings and proceedings of committees, etc.
   78. Officer or employee of National Parks Board not disqualified

            from being committee member or observer

                                           PART 6

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   79. Investigators
   80. Assessors to Council
   81. Protection from personal liability
   82. Deemed public servants
   83. Composition of offences
   84. Service of documents
   85. Jurisdiction of courts
   86. Exemption
   87. Regulations
   88. Consequential amendments to other Acts
   89. Amendment of Veterinary Practice Act 2026
   90. Saving and transitional provisions

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE  5

An Act to establish the Veterinary Council, to provide for the
  registration of veterinarians and the regulation of individuals
  practising veterinary medicine and for matters connected therewith,
  and to make consequential amendments to certain other Acts.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
6  NO. 11 OF 2026

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the Veterinary Practice Act 2026 and comes into
operation on a date that the Minister appoints by notification in the
Gazette.

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Interpretation

 2. In this Act —

      “animal” means a mammal (other than a human being), a bird, a
         reptile, an amphibian, or a fish (including a crustacean,
         mollusc or other aquatic invertebrate), and includes the
         young or egg of any animal;

      “business name” means the name under which a person carries
         on a business;

      “certificate of registration”, in relation to a registered
         veterinarian, means a certificate of registration issued by
         the Council under section 22;

      “complainant” means the person who brings a disciplinary case
         against a registered veterinarian and, if the disciplinary case
         is brought by the Council, includes the Council;

      “Complaints Assessment Committee” means a Complaints
         Assessment Committee appointed by the Council under
         section 47;

      “Complaints Panel” means the Complaints Panel appointed by
         the Council under section 39;

      “Council” means the Veterinary Council established under
         section 4;

      “Director‑General, Animal Health and Welfare” means the
         Director‑General, Animal Health and Welfare appointed
         under section 3(1) of the Animals and Birds Act 1965;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      7

“disciplinary case” means a complaint made against, or any
   information provided about, a registered veterinarian under
   Part 5, and, if an interim suspension order is made against the
   registered veterinarian in relation to the complaint or
   information, includes any contravention or suspected
   contravention of the interim suspension order or any term
   specified for the interim suspension order;

“Disciplinary Committee” means a Disciplinary Committee
   appointed by the Council under section 53;

“interim order” means an interim restriction order or interim
   suspension order;

“Interim Orders Committee” means an Interim Orders
   Committee appointed by the Council under section 63;

“interim restriction order” means an order of an Interim Orders
   Committee under Division 6 of Part 5 providing that the
   registration of a registered veterinarian is conditional on his
   or her compliance with any condition or restriction specified
   in the order;

“interim suspension order” means an order of an Interim Orders
   Committee under Division 6 of Part 5 providing that the
   registration of a registered veterinarian is suspended;

“investigator” means an investigator appointed under
   section 79;

“layperson” means an individual who is not a veterinarian, and
   includes a legal professional;

“legal professional” means an individual who —

        (a) has at any time held, but no longer holds, office as a
             Supreme Court Judge or Judicial Commissioner; or

        (b) is —

               (i) an advocate and solicitor of at least 10 years’
                    standing;

               (ii) a Judicial Service Officer or Legal Service
                    Officer who has at least 10 years of full‑time

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
8  NO. 11 OF 2026

                       employment in the Singapore Judicial Service
                       or Singapore Legal Service (or both); or

                 (iii) an advocate and solicitor, a Judicial Service
                       Officer or a Legal Service Officer who has any
                       combination of standing mentioned in
                       sub‑paragraph (i) and employment mentioned
                       in sub‑paragraph (ii) which is at least 10 years;

   “medical practitioner” means an individual who is a legally
      qualified medical practitioner within the meaning given by
      section 16 of the Medical Registration Act 1997;

   “National Parks Board” means the National Parks Board
      established by the repealed National Parks Act (Cap. 198A,
      1991 Revised Edition) as in force before 1 July 1996 and
      continued by section 3 of the National Parks Board Act 1996;

   “practice of veterinary medicine” means the performance of any
      procedure on, the giving of any treatment to (or advice in
      relation to), or the attendance to, an animal that is usually
      carried out or given by veterinarians, such as —

           (a) the diagnosis of any disease in, or injury to, the
                animal, including the performance of any test for the
                purpose of diagnosing the physiological or
                pathological condition of the animal;

           (b) the giving of advice based on such diagnosis;

           (c) the medical treatment (including of a dental or
                surgical nature) of the animal;

           (d) the administration of anaesthetics to the animal;

           (e) the prescription of any drug or medication for the
                animal;

           (f) the issuance or endorsement of any certificate, report
                or document in relation to the animal that requires or
                implies the exercise of professional veterinary
                judgment, including a document stating or attesting
                to any of the following matters in relation to the
                animal:

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      9

               (i) health status, disease status, vaccination status
                    or physical condition;

               (ii) identity, age, sex or neuter status;

              (iii) cause of death or findings of a post‑mortem
                    examination;

              (iv) the performance of any treatment, test or
                    procedure,

   and “practise veterinary medicine” is to be construed
   accordingly;

“practising certificate” means a practising certificate granted or
   renewed under section 23;

“president” means the president of the Council;

“public authority” means a body established or constituted by or
   under a public Act to perform or discharge a public function,
   excluding a Town Council established under section 4 of the
   Town Councils Act 1988;

“register” means any register mentioned in section 15;

“registered veterinarian” means an individual who is registered
   under this Act as —

        (a) a veterinarian with full registration;

        (b) a veterinarian with restricted registration; or

        (c) a specialist;

“Registrar” means the Registrar of the Council appointed under
   section 14(1), and (except for section 4(2)(c) or 7(1)(j))
   includes a Deputy Registrar appointed under section 14(2);

“specialist” means an individual who is registered as a specialist
   under this Act;

“veterinarian with full registration” means an individual
   registered as such under this Act;

“veterinarian with restricted registration” means an individual
   registered as such under this Act;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
10  NO. 11 OF 2026

      “veterinary medicine” means any branch of veterinary medicine,
         and includes veterinary surgery;

      “veterinary student” means an individual who is enrolled in a
         university to receive, and receives, education for a degree in
         veterinary medicine, or any similar qualification, provided by
         the university.

Duly qualified veterinarian

 3. In this Act and any other written law, “duly qualified
veterinarian”, or any expression importing a person recognised by
law as a veterinarian, means an individual who is a registered
veterinarian and has a valid practising certificate, but excludes —

       (a) a registered veterinarian whose registration is suspended
            under this Act; and

       (b) a registered veterinarian whose practising certificate is
            suspended under this Act.

                                    PART 2

                        VETERINARY COUNCIL

Establishment of Veterinary Council

 4.—(1) A body called the Veterinary Council is established, which
consists of members appointed by the Minister.

 (2) The Minister may appoint one or more of the following
individuals to be a member of the Veterinary Council:

       (a) the Director‑General, Animal Health and Welfare, or a
            representative (being an officer or employee of the
            National Parks Board) nominated by the
            Director‑General, Animal Health and Welfare for this
            purpose;

       (b) the president of the Singapore Veterinary Association, or a
            representative (being a member of the Singapore
            Veterinary Association) nominated by the president of
            the Singapore Veterinary Association for this purpose;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      11

       (c) the Registrar.

 (3) In addition, the Minister must appoint to the Veterinary Council,
as members —

       (a) at least 4 veterinarians with full registration, of whom at
            least one has at least 10 years’ experience as a veterinarian;
            and

       (b) at least 2 laypersons.

 (4) The members appointed under subsection (2) or (3) hold office
for a term not exceeding 3 years and are eligible for re‑appointment.

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (3)(a), a reference to a
veterinarian with full registration includes an individual who holds
a licence issued under section 53(1) of the Animals and Birds
Act 1965, except a licence that authorises the individual to treat,
vaccinate or inoculate animals only —

       (a) at a place of practice specified in the licence; and

       (b) under the supervision of another individual who holds a
            licence issued under section 53(1) of the Animals and
            Birds Act 1965.

Functions of Council

 5.—(1) The functions of the Council are —

       (a) to register veterinarians;

       (b) to renew the registration of specialists;

       (c) to grant and renew practising certificates for registered
            veterinarians;

       (d) to conduct, approve, recognise or accredit courses or
            programmes for the training or assessment of individuals
            seeking to become or continue as registered veterinarians,
            and to approve, recognise or accredit the providers of such
            training or assessment;

       (e) to conduct, approve, recognise or accredit programmes for
            the continuing professional education of registered

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
12  NO. 11 OF 2026

            veterinarians, and to approve, recognise or accredit the
            providers of such continuing professional education;

        (f) to determine and regulate the standards of practice,
            competence, conduct and ethics of registered veterinarians;

       (g) to coordinate and supervise the activities of any
            committees appointed under section 13;

       (h) to appoint the Complaints Panel, Complaints Assessment
            Committees, Disciplinary Committees and Interim Orders
            Committees for the purposes of Part 5; and

        (i) generally to do all acts, matters and things as are necessary
            or authorised to be carried out under or for the purposes of
            this Act.

 (2) The Council has the power to do all things necessary or
expedient to be done for, or in connection with, the performance of its
functions.

President of Council

 6. The Minister must appoint one of the members of the Council as
the president of the Council.

Disqualifications from membership of Council

 7.—(1) Despite anything in section 4, an individual must not, or
must not continue to, hold office as a member of the Council if —

       (a) the individual is not a citizen of Singapore or a permanent
            resident of Singapore within the meaning given by
            section 2 of the Immigration Act 1959;

       (b) the individual is an undischarged bankrupt;

       (c) the individual has been convicted in Singapore or
            elsewhere of any offence involving fraud, dishonesty or
            moral turpitude or implying a defect in character that
            makes him or her unfit for his or her profession;

       (d) the individual has been found guilty in Singapore or
            elsewhere of any improper act or conduct which brings
            disrepute to his or her profession;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      13

(e) the individual has been found guilty in Singapore or
     elsewhere of professional misconduct;

 (f) in the case where the individual is appointed to the Council
     under section 4(2)(a) by reason of him or her being the
     Director‑General, Animal Health and Welfare — the
     individual ceases to be the Director‑General, Animal
     Health and Welfare;

(g) in the case where the individual is appointed to the Council
     under section 4(2)(a) by reason of him or her being the
     representative nominated by the Director‑General, Animal
     Health and Welfare — the individual ceases to be an officer
     or employee of the National Parks Board;

(h) in the case where the individual is appointed to the Council
     under section 4(2)(b) by reason of him or her being the
     president of the Singapore Veterinary Association — the
     individual ceases to be the president of the Singapore
     Veterinary Association;

 (i) in the case where the individual is appointed to the Council
     under section 4(2)(b) by reason of him or her being the
     representative nominated by the president of the Singapore
     Veterinary Association — the individual ceases to be a
     member of the Singapore Veterinary Association;

 (j) in the case where the individual is appointed to the Council
     under section 4(2)(c) by reason of him or her being the
     Registrar — the individual ceases to be the Registrar;

(k) if the individual has held a licence granted under
     section 53(1) of the Animals and Birds Act 1965 before
     the date of commencement of section 88(1)(b) — the
     licence has been suspended or revoked under that Act;

 (l) the registration of the individual as a registered
     veterinarian is suspended or cancelled under this Act; or

(m) for medical reasons, the individual is unable to perform his
     or her duties as a member, as assessed by a medical
     practitioner.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
14  NO. 11 OF 2026

 (2) The Minister may waive the disqualification in
subsection (1)(a) in respect of any particular member.

Removal of member of Council

 8.—(1) The Minister may, at any time and without giving any
reason, remove from office a member of the Council appointed under
section 4(2) or (3).

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may remove from
office any member of the Council appointed under section 4(2) or (3)
who is absent without leave of the Council from 3 consecutive
meetings of —

       (a) the Council; or

       (b) a Disciplinary Committee, an Interim Orders Committee or
            any committee appointed under section 13 of which he or
            she is a member.

Resignation of member of Council

 9.—(1) A member of the Council may resign his or her office by
written notice to the Minister (with a copy to the Council) signed by
the member.

 (2) The resignation is effective when the notice in subsection (1) is
received by the Minister or at the time specified in the notice
(whichever is the later).

Filling of vacancies

 10.—(1) The office of a member of the Council becomes vacant if
the member —

       (a) dies;

       (b) resigns his or her office under section 9;

       (c) is subject to any of the disqualifications in section 7, unless
            (in the case of the disqualification in section 7(1)(a)) the
            Minister has waived the disqualification in respect of the
            member; or

       (d) is removed from office under section 8.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      15

 (2) Any question as to whether an individual has ceased to be a
member of the Council is to be determined by the Minister whose
decision is final.

 (3) If a vacancy occurs in the office of any member of the Council
appointed under section 4(2), the Minister may appoint an individual
to fill the vacancy.

 (4) If a vacancy occurs in the office of any member of the Council
appointed under section 4(3) and —

       (a) if, as a result of the vacancy, the composition of the
            Council does not meet the requirements under that
            provision — the Minister must, as soon as practicable,
            appoint an individual to fill the vacancy; or

       (b) if paragraph (a) does not apply — the Minister may
            appoint an individual to fill the vacancy.

 (5) An individual mentioned in subsection (3) or (4) must be
appointed in the manner in which the appointment to the vacated
office was made and holds that office for the remainder of the term for
which the vacating member was appointed.

Validity of acts, etc.

 11.—(1) Despite section 33 of the Interpretation Act 1965, the
exercise of any power or performance of any function of the Council
by the Council is not affected merely because at the relevant time —

       (a) there was a vacancy in the membership of the Council,
            including a vacancy arising from the failure to appoint a
            member;

       (b) there was some defect or irregularity existing in the
            appointment or continuance in office of an individual
            purporting to be a member of the Council; or

       (c) there was an irregularity in the Council’s decision‑making
            procedure that does not affect the merits of the decision
            made.

 (2) The acts of an individual as a member of the Council are not
affected merely because —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
16  NO. 11 OF 2026

       (a) there was some defect or irregularity existing in the
            appointment or continuance in office of the individual
            purporting to be a member of the Council; or

       (b) in the case of an individual acting in the capacity of a
            member of the Council, the president (or member of the
            Council elected under section 12(4)(a) to preside at any
            meeting) or the Registrar, the occasion for the individual so
            acting, or for his or her appointment, had not arisen or had
            ended.

Meetings of Council and payment of members of Council

 12.—(1) The Council must meet at such times and places as the
president or the Registrar may appoint.

 (2) The quorum for a meeting of the Council is —

       (a) for a meeting in relation to a decision of the Council, on its
            own motion, to bring a disciplinary case against a
            registered veterinarian under section 41(3) — 2 members
            of the Council;

       (b) for a meeting in relation to a decision of the Council to
            make a referral, take an action or give a direction
            mentioned in section 75(1) for the continuation of a
            disciplinary case despite the withdrawal of the disciplinary
            case — 2 members of the Council; and

       (c) for any other meeting — the higher of the following:

               (i) one‑third of the number of members of the Council;

              (ii) 4 members of the Council.

 (3) No business may be transacted at a meeting of the Council if a
quorum is not present.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5) —

       (a) the president is to preside at any meeting of the Council
            and, in his or her absence, the members of the Council
            present may elect, from among those members, a member
            of the Council to preside at that meeting; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      17

       (b) the president or member of the Council presiding at any
            meeting of the Council has an original vote and, in the case
            of an equality of votes, a casting vote.

 (5) Subsection (4) does not apply to a meeting mentioned in
subsection (2)(a) or (b).

 (6) Subject to subsection (2), the Council may act despite any
vacancy in the membership of the Council.

 (7) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Council may regulate
its own procedure.

 (8) The Council must keep minutes of its proceedings in any form
or manner that it thinks fit.

 (9) The Minister may determine the remuneration (if any) to be paid
to each member of the Council.

 (10) If a member of the Council is an employee, any remuneration
payable to the member under subsection (9) may be paid to the
member’s employer.

Appointment and establishment of committees and delegation
of powers

 13.—(1) The Council may appoint one or more committees for any
general or special purpose which in the opinion of the Council may be
better dealt with or managed by a committee.

 (2) The purpose mentioned in subsection (1) includes the making of
recommendations on any decision to be made by the Council under
this Act.

 (3) The Council must fix the number and term of office of the
members of a committee appointed under this section and the number
of those members necessary to form a quorum.

 (4) A committee appointed under this section may include any
individual who is not a member of the Council.

 (5) The Council may delegate to any committee appointed under
this section any of its powers or functions (except the Council’s
powers under subsections (1) and (3), the power of delegation

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
18  NO. 11 OF 2026

conferred by this subsection and the powers under sections 83 and
87), subject to any condition or restriction that the Council thinks fit.

 (6) The Council may continue to exercise any power conferred on it
or perform any function under this Act despite the delegation of the
power or function under subsection (5).

 (7) The Minister may determine the remuneration (if any) to be paid
to each member of a committee appointed under this section.

 (8) If a member of a committee appointed under this section is an
employee, any remuneration payable to the member under
subsection (7) may be paid to the member’s employer.

                                    PART 3

               REGISTRATION OF VETERINARIANS

Registrar of Council

 14.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, the Minister must appoint a
public officer or an officer or employee of a public authority to be the
Registrar of the Council.

 (2) The Minister may appoint one or more Deputy Registrars to
assist the Registrar in carrying out the Registrar’s functions and
duties under this Act.

 (3) The Registrar may, subject to any condition or restriction that
the Registrar thinks fit, delegate to a Deputy Registrar any of the
Registrar’s powers or functions under this Act, except the power of
delegation conferred by this subsection.

 (4) The Registrar may continue to exercise any power conferred on
him or her or perform any function under this Act despite the
delegation of the power or function under subsection (3).

Registers

 15.—(1) The Registrar must keep and maintain the following
registers:

       (a) a register called “The Register of Veterinarians with Full
            Registration”, containing the particulars mentioned in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      19

            subsection (2) of individuals who are registered as
            veterinarians with full registration;

       (b) a register called “The Register of Veterinarians with
            Restricted Registration”, containing the particulars
            mentioned in subsection (2) of individuals who are
            registered as veterinarians with restricted registration;

       (c) a register called “The Register of Specialists”, containing
            the particulars mentioned in subsection (2) of individuals
            who are registered as specialists.

 (2) The particulars of each individual to be contained in a register
are the following:

       (a) the individual’s name and residential address;

       (b) the business name and address of the individual’s primary
            place of practice, if any;

       (c) the date of the registration of the individual;

       (d) the individual’s qualification for registration and the date
            the individual obtained that qualification;

       (e) in the case of a specialist, each branch of veterinary
            medicine in which the individual is registered as a
            specialist;

        (f) any other particulars as the Council may determine.

 (3) Every individual whose name is entered in a register must
inform the Registrar in writing of —

       (a) subject to subsection (5), any change in the individual’s
            name or residential address;

       (b) any change in the business name or address of the
            individual’s primary place of practice;

       (c) any withdrawal or cancellation of the individual’s
            qualification for registration; or

       (d) any change in any other prescribed particulars,

within 28 days after the change, withdrawal or cancellation.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
20  NO. 11 OF 2026

 (4) An individual who contravenes subsection (3) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$1,000.

 (5) An individual who makes a report of a change in his or her
residential address under section 10 of the National Registration
Act 1965 is deemed to have complied with subsection (3)(a) on the
date that he or she makes the report.

 (6) The Registrar may disclose any information in a register to any
prescribed person, subject to any prescribed condition.

 (7) Subsection (6) does not affect any other right or duty to disclose
the information under general or written law.

Alterations in registers

 16. The Registrar must —

       (a) insert in the appropriate register any alteration which may
            come to the Registrar’s knowledge to any particulars or
            qualifications of any registered veterinarian;

       (b) correct any error in a register; and

       (c) remove from the appropriate register the registration of
            any individual —

               (i) whose registration is cancelled under this Act;

              (ii) who is deceased; or

             (iii) for the Register of Specialists — whose registration
                   has lapsed.

Full registration

 17.—(1) Subject to subsection (6) and section 21(6), the Council
may register an individual as a veterinarian with full registration if
the individual holds any prescribed qualification in veterinary
medicine.

 (2) Subject to subsection (6) and section 21(6), the Council may
register an individual who does not hold any prescribed qualification
mentioned in subsection (1) as a veterinarian with full registration if
the individual —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      21

       (a) holds any other qualification in veterinary medicine, which
            is, in the opinion of the Council, not lower in standing than
            a prescribed qualification mentioned in subsection (1);
            and

       (b) satisfies the Council that he or she has the knowledge and
            skill, and has acquired the experience, which is necessary
            for the practice of veterinary medicine.

 (3) For the purpose of satisfying itself that an individual’s
qualification mentioned in subsection (2)(a) is not lower in
standing than a prescribed qualification mentioned in
subsection (1), the Council may require the individual to undergo
and pass an examination conducted or arranged by the Council or
any person recognised by the Council.

 (4) Any registration under subsection (1) or (2) is subject to any
condition that the Council may impose.

 (5) Without limiting subsection (4), the Council may impose all or
any of the following conditions on the registration of an individual
under subsection (1) or (2):

       (a) that, for a period (not exceeding 3 years) specified by the
            Council, the individual must only practise veterinary
            medicine under the supervision (that meets the Council’s
            requirements) of an approved veterinarian;

       (b) that, for a period (not exceeding 3 years) specified by the
            Council, the individual’s performance as a veterinarian is
            subject to review by an approved veterinarian;

       (c) that, for a period (not exceeding 3 years) specified by the
            Council, the individual must only practise veterinary
            medicine in an establishment, or an establishment that is
            within a class of establishments, specified by the Council;

       (d) that, for a period (not exceeding 3 years) specified by the
            Council, the individual must only practise in a branch of
            veterinary medicine, or undertake a type or description of
            work in the practice of veterinary medicine, specified by
            the Council.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
22  NO. 11 OF 2026

 (6) Despite subsection (1) or (2), the Council may, if it is of the
opinion that it is not in the public interest for an individual mentioned
in that subsection to be registered as a veterinarian with full
registration, register the individual as a veterinarian with restricted
registration, subject to any condition or restriction, including any
condition or restriction mentioned in section 18(4).

 (7) In this section —

      “approved veterinarian” means a duly qualified veterinarian
         with full registration who is approved by the Council;

      “prescribed qualification” means a prescribed qualification
         conferred by a prescribed university in or outside Singapore.

Restricted registration

 18.—(1) Subject to section 21(6), the Council may register an
individual as a veterinarian with restricted registration if the
individual —

       (a) holds a qualification in veterinary medicine other than a
            qualification mentioned in section 17(1) or (2)(a) which
            has, in the opinion of the Council, provided the individual
            with adequate training;

       (b) satisfies the Council that he or she has the knowledge and
            skill, and has acquired the experience, which is necessary
            for the practice of veterinary medicine; and

       (c) has been selected for employment in Singapore as a
            veterinarian in an establishment recognised by the
            Council.

 (2) For the purpose of satisfying itself that an individual’s
qualification mentioned in subsection (1)(a) has provided adequate
training to the individual, the Council may require the individual to
undergo and pass an examination conducted or arranged by the
Council or any person recognised by the Council.

 (3) Any registration under subsection (1) is subject to any condition
or restriction that the Council may impose.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      23

 (4) Without limiting subsection (3), the Council may impose one or
more of the following conditions or restrictions on the registration of
an individual under subsection (1):

       (a) that the individual must only practise veterinary medicine
            under the supervision (that meets the Council’s
            requirements) of an approved veterinarian;

       (b) that the individual’s performance as a veterinarian is
            subject to review by an approved veterinarian;

       (c) that the individual must only practise veterinary
            medicine —

               (i) in the establishment mentioned in subsection (1)(c)
                   in which the individual had been selected for
                   employment prior to the individual’s registration; or

              (ii) in an establishment, or an establishment that is
                   within a class of establishments, specified by the
                   Council;

       (d) that the individual must only practise in a branch of
            veterinary medicine, or undertake a type or description of
            work in the practice of veterinary medicine, specified by
            the Council.

 (5) In this section, “approved veterinarian” means a duly qualified
veterinarian with full registration who is approved by the Council.

Registration of specialists

 19.—(1) Subject to section 21(6), the Council may register, or
renew the registration of, a veterinarian with full registration as a
specialist in any particular branch of veterinary medicine if he or
she —

       (a) holds any postgraduate degree or qualification approved
            by the Council in that branch of veterinary medicine; or

       (b) satisfies the Council that he or she has acquired any
            special knowledge of, and skill and experience in, that
            branch of veterinary medicine.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
24  NO. 11 OF 2026

 (2) The Council may register, or renew the registration of, a
veterinarian with full registration as a specialist under subsection (1)
for any period that the Council thinks fit.

 (3) Any registration or renewal of registration under subsection (1)
is subject to any condition that the Council may impose.

Power to amend, vary or revoke condition or restriction, etc.

 20.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the Council may, at any time
after registering an individual as a registered veterinarian under this
Act —

       (a) for an individual registered as a veterinarian with full
            registration or as a specialist — amend, vary or revoke any
            condition of the registration that is imposed, amended or
            varied by the Council under this Act, or impose any new or
            additional condition on the registration; and

       (b) for an individual registered as a veterinarian with
            restricted registration — amend, vary or revoke any
            condition of or restriction on the registration that is
            imposed, amended or varied by the Council under this Act,
            or impose any new or additional condition or restriction on
            the registration.

 (2) Any condition or restriction imposed, amended or varied by the
Council with the agreement of a registered veterinarian under
section 38(2)(c) or (d) may only be amended, varied or revoked under
subsection (1) with the written agreement of the veterinarian.

 (3) Without affecting subsection (2), the Council is not required to
give an individual mentioned in subsection (1) an opportunity to be
heard before taking any action under that subsection in respect of the
individual’s registration.

Application for registration, etc.

 21.—(1) An application for registration under section 17, 18 or 19,
or for renewal of registration under section 19, must be made in the
form and manner required by the Council and must be accompanied
by —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      25

       (a) any document, information or declaration (including a
            statutory declaration) required by the Council; and

       (b) the prescribed fee, if any.

 (2) An application for the renewal of registration under section 19
must be made no later than 30 days before the end of the period of
registration or renewed registration (as the case may be) mentioned
in section 19(2).

 (3) A registered veterinarian who applies for the renewal of
registration as a specialist under section 19 after the period
specified in subsection (2) must also pay to the Council the
prescribed late application fee, if any.

 (4) The Council may require the applicant to submit himself or
herself to a medical examination by a medical practitioner approved
by the Council to determine if the applicant is fit to practise
veterinary medicine as a registered veterinarian.

 (5) The applicant must bear the costs of any medical examination
mentioned in subsection (4).

 (6) The Council may refuse to register any applicant under
section 17, 18 or 19, or to renew the registration of any applicant
under section 19, who —

       (a) has had his or her registration as a veterinarian (or its
            equivalent) in any other country or territory withdrawn,
            suspended or cancelled; or

       (b) in the opinion of the Council —

               (i) is not eligible to be registered;

              (ii) is not of good reputation and character;

             (iii) is unfit to practise veterinary medicine —

                     (A) because his or her fitness to practise veterinary
                          medicine has been impaired by reason of his or
                          her physical or mental condition; or

                     (B) for any other reason;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
26  NO. 11 OF 2026

             (iv) has failed without reasonable cause to submit to a
                   medical examination when required to do so under
                   subsection (4);

              (v) has contravened any condition or restriction of any
                   previous registration imposed on him or her under
                   this Act; or

             (vi) should not be registered because this would not be in
                   the public interest.

 (7) If the Council refuses to register, or renew the registration of, an
applicant, the Registrar must, as soon as practicable, give written
notice to the applicant of the refusal.

 (8) An individual who is dissatisfied with any refusal of the Council
under subsection (6) may, within 30 days after service of the notice
mentioned in subsection (7), appeal to the Minister whose decision is
final.

Certificate of registration

 22. Upon the registration of an individual, the Council must issue to
the individual a certificate of registration specifying the registration
of the individual.

Practising certificate

 23.—(1) A registered veterinarian who desires to obtain or renew a
practising certificate must make an application to the Council.

 (2) An application for the grant or renewal of a practising
certificate must be made in the form and manner required by the
Council and must be accompanied by —

       (a) any document, information or declaration (including a
            statutory declaration) required by the Council; and

       (b) the prescribed fee, if any.

 (3) An application for the renewal of a practising certificate must
be made no later than 30 days before the end of the period of validity
of the practising certificate mentioned in subsection (5).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      27

 (4) A registered veterinarian who applies for the renewal of his or
her practising certificate after the period specified in subsection (3)
must also pay to the Council the prescribed late application fee, if
any.

 (5) The Council may grant or renew a practising certificate for any
period, not exceeding any period prescribed under subsection (12)
(if any), that the Council determines.

 (6) A registered veterinarian is not eligible for the grant or renewal
of a practising certificate, or to continue to hold a practising
certificate, unless the registered veterinarian complies with —

       (a) any prescribed requirement, including any requirement
            relating to continuing professional education; and

       (b) any condition specified by the Council for the application
            for the grant or renewal of the practising certificate.

 (7) The Council may —

       (a) refuse to grant a practising certificate to a registered
            veterinarian;

       (b) refuse to renew the practising certificate of a registered
            veterinarian; or

       (c) cancel the practising certificate of a registered
            veterinarian,

if the registered veterinarian does not comply with any prescribed
requirement or specified condition mentioned in subsection (6).

 (8) Before the Council cancels a registered veterinarian’s
practising certificate under subsection (7)(c), the Registrar must
give written notice to the registered veterinarian —

       (a) informing of the Council’s intention to cancel the
            practising certificate; and

       (b) specifying the time within which the registered
            veterinarian may submit to the Council reasons why the
            practising certificate should not be cancelled.

 (9) A registered veterinarian’s practising certificate is cancelled
immediately upon the cancellation or suspension of his or her

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
28  NO. 11 OF 2026

registration as a veterinarian with full registration or as a
veterinarian with restricted registration.

 (10) If the Council refuses to grant or renew a practising certificate,
or cancels a practising certificate under subsection (7), the Registrar
must, as soon as practicable, give written notice to the individual
concerned of the refusal or cancellation.

 (11) An individual who is dissatisfied with any decision of the
Council under subsection (7) may, within 30 days after service of the
notice mentioned in subsection (10), appeal to the Minister whose
decision is final.

 (12) The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, prescribe the
maximum period of validity for a practising certificate.

Publication of list of duly qualified veterinarians

 24. The Registrar must publish on the Council’s Internet website, or
on any other medium which is accessible to members of the public
that the Minister may determine, the following information:

       (a) the name of each duly qualified veterinarian;

       (b) the business name and address of the primary place of
            practice (if any) of each duly qualified veterinarian;

       (c) the qualification for registration, and date that the
            qualification was obtained, of each duly qualified
            veterinarian;

       (d) the date of registration of each duly qualified veterinarian.

Registered veterinarians to use only qualifications entered in
registers and approved titles, etc.

 25.—(1) A registered veterinarian must not —

       (a) use, or exhibit or publish in, any card, letter, stationery,
            nameplate, signboard, placard, circular or handbill, or any
            notice displayed at any premises used by him or her for the
            practice of veterinary medicine, any qualification other
            than the qualifications which are entered against his or her

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      29

            name in the appropriate register or which has been
            approved by the Council; or

       (b) use any title, addition or designation other than the title,
            addition or designation which has been approved by the
            Council.

 (2) A registered veterinarian who contravenes subsection (1) may
be subject to disciplinary proceedings under this Act.

Cancellation of registration

 26.—(1) Despite the provisions of this Act, the Council may, upon
any evidence available to the Council, cancel the registration of an
individual under this Act if —

       (a) the individual has contravened this Act or any condition or
            restriction imposed on his or her registration;

       (b) the Council is of the opinion, having regard to a report of
            an approved veterinarian mentioned in section 17(5)(a) or
            18(4)(a) (as the case may be), that the individual is unable
            to perform the duties of a veterinarian with full registration
            or veterinarian with restricted registration (as the case
            may be) satisfactorily;

       (c) the Council is of the opinion, having regard to any review
            by an approved veterinarian mentioned in section 17(5)(b)
            or 18(4)(b) (as the case may be), that the individual is
            unable to perform the duties of a veterinarian with full
            registration or veterinarian with restricted registration (as
            the case may be) satisfactorily;

       (d) in the case where the individual is registered as a
            specialist — the individual’s registration as a
            veterinarian with full registration has been cancelled;

       (e) the individual has obtained his or her registration
            fraudulently or by an incorrect statement;

        (f) the individual’s qualification that satisfied section 17(1) or
            (2)(a) or 18(1)(a), or the individual’s postgraduate degree
            or qualification that satisfied section 19(1)(a), (as the case
            may be) for registration under that provision has been

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
30  NO. 11 OF 2026

            withdrawn or cancelled by the authority or university
            through which it was acquired or by which it was awarded;

       (g) the individual has had his or her registration (or its
            equivalent) in any other country or territory withdrawn,
            suspended or cancelled by a competent authority in that
            country or territory; or

       (h) the individual has requested (not being a request made
            under section 37) and shown sufficient reason for the
            individual’s registration to be cancelled (not being a
            reason mentioned in section 37) and a disciplinary case is
            not pending against the individual under Part 5.

 (2) The Registrar may cancel the registration of an individual who
has not renewed his or her practising certificate for a continuous
period of 2 years.

 (3) Before the Council or Registrar (as the case may be) cancels the
registration of a registered veterinarian under subsection (1) (except
on the ground mentioned in paragraph (h) of that subsection) or (2),
the Registrar must give written notice to the registered
veterinarian —

       (a) informing of the intention of the Council or Registrar (as
            the case may be) to cancel the registration; and

       (b) specifying the time within which the registered
            veterinarian may submit to the Council or Registrar (as
            the case may be) reasons why the registration should not
            be cancelled.

 (4) If the Council or Registrar (as the case may be) cancels the
registration of an individual under subsection (1) or (2) —

       (a) the Registrar must, as soon as practicable, give written
            notice to the individual of the cancellation; and

       (b) if the cancellation is on a ground mentioned in
            subsection (1)(a), (b), (c), (d) or (h) or (2) — the
            Council or Registrar (as the case may be) may specify
            terms that the individual must comply with for the purpose

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      31

            of restoration of the individual’s registration under
            section 27.

 (5) An individual who is dissatisfied with any decision of the
Council or Registrar (as the case may be) under subsection (1)
(excluding paragraph (h) of that subsection) or (2) may, within
30 days after service of the notice mentioned in subsection (4)(a),
appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

Restoration of registration cancelled under section 26

 27.—(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (4), if the registration of an
individual has been cancelled under section 26(1)(a), (b), (c), (d) or
(h) or (2), the Council may, on its own motion or on an application by
the individual —

       (a) in the case where the individual was a veterinarian with
            full registration before the cancellation — register the
            individual as a veterinarian with restricted registration,
            subject to any condition or restriction, including any
            condition or restriction mentioned in section 18(4); or

       (b) in any case — restore the individual’s registration.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must not be made to the
Council more than once in any period of 6 months.

 (3) An application under subsection (1) must be made in the form
and manner required by the Council and must be accompanied by —

       (a) any document, information or declaration (including a
            statutory declaration) required by the Council; and

       (b) the prescribed fee, if any.

 (4) If the registration of the individual has been cancelled under
section 26(1)(a), (b), (c), (d) or (h) or (2), the Council must not take
any action under subsection (1)(a) or (b) unless the individual has
complied with the terms (if any) specified under section 26(4)(b).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
32  NO. 11 OF 2026

Registrar’s certificate

 28. A certificate purporting to be signed by the Registrar —

       (a) to the effect that at any time or during any period specified
            in the certificate an individual was or was not a registered
            veterinarian, or had or did not have a valid practising
            certificate; or

       (b) as to any entry in a register, or the removal of any entry
            from a register,

is, in the absence of proof to the contrary, and without further proof of
the signature appended to the certificate, sufficient evidence of the
matters specified in the certificate.

                                    PART 4

                OFFENCES AND RELATED MATTERS

Prohibition of practice of veterinary medicine

 29.—(1) Subject to subsections (2) to (5), an individual must not
practise veterinary medicine in Singapore unless the individual is a
duly qualified veterinarian.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to the doing of any act within the
practice of veterinary medicine, other than any prescribed act, by any
veterinary student if the act is done —

       (a) in accordance with any prescribed condition;

       (b) in the course of the veterinary student’s training to become
            a veterinarian; and

       (c) under the supervision of a duly qualified veterinarian.

 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply to the inoculation of an animal
with any veterinary biologics by —

       (a) an authorised officer; or

       (b) an individual who holds a valid licence mentioned in
            section 55(1) of the Animals and Birds Act 1965, if the
            inoculation is performed in accordance with the conditions
            of that licence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      33

 (4) Subsection (1) does not apply to an individual who keeps or uses
any animal for any scientific purpose in any premises if the keeping or
use of the animal in those premises and for that purpose —

       (a) is authorised by a licence issued under the Animals and
            Birds Act 1965; and

       (b) is carried out in accordance with that Act and the
            conditions of that licence.

 (5) Subsection (1) does not apply to the doing of any act (not being
an excluded act) within the practice of veterinary medicine by an
individual (not being an individual whose registration as a
veterinarian or whose practising certificate is suspended under
Part 5) if the act is done in accordance with any prescribed condition
and under the supervision of a duly qualified veterinarian.

 (6) An individual who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (7) In this section —

      “authorised officer” and “veterinary biologics” have the
         respective meanings given by section 2(1) of the Animals
         and Birds Act 1965;

      “excluded act” means —

              (a) the diagnosis of any disease in, or injury to, an
                   animal, including the performance of a test for the
                   purpose of diagnosing the physiological or
                   pathological condition of the animal;

              (b) any treatment (of a surgical nature) of an animal;

              (c) the prescription of any drug or medication for an
                   animal;

              (d) the issuance or endorsement of any certificate, report
                   or document in relation to an animal that requires or
                   implies the exercise of professional veterinary
                   judgment, including a document stating or attesting

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
34  NO. 11 OF 2026

                   to any of the following matters in relation to the
                   animal:

                     (i) health status, disease status, vaccination status
                          or physical condition;

                     (ii) identity, age, sex or neuter status;

                    (iii) cause of death or findings of a post‑mortem
                          examination;

                    (iv) the performance of any treatment, test or
                          procedure; or

              (e) any other act that may be prescribed.

Unauthorised individual acting as duly qualified
veterinarian, etc.

 30.—(1) An individual who is not a duly qualified veterinarian shall
be guilty of an offence if the individual —

       (a) wilfully and falsely pretends to be a duly qualified
            veterinarian;

       (b) practises veterinary medicine —

               (i) under the name or title of a veterinarian; or

              (ii) under any name, title, addition or description
                   implying that he or she holds any degree or
                   qualification in veterinary medicine;

       (c) takes or uses any name or title of a veterinarian, or any
            other word in any language having the same meaning or
            being to the like intent;

       (d) takes or uses any name, title, sign, uniform, badge or any
            other addition or description implying, whether in itself or
            in the circumstances in which it is used, that he or she is
            qualified to practise veterinary medicine; or

       (e) advertises or holds himself or herself out as a veterinarian.

 (2) Subsection (1)(d) does not apply to any act carried out by a
veterinary student in the course of the veterinary student’s training to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      35

become a veterinarian, if that training is done under the supervision
of a duly qualified veterinarian.

 (3) An individual who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), it is a defence for an individual
charged with an offence under subsection (1)(c), (d) or (e) to prove
that the individual acted without the intention to deceive or to gain
any advantage, benefit or financial gain for a business, trade,
profession, vocation or employment carried on by the individual.

 (5) Subsection (4) does not apply to an individual charged with an
offence under subsection (1)(e) if the individual so advertised or held
himself or herself out in the prescribed circumstances.

 (6) If an offence is committed under subsection (1) by an
individual (A) acting as an employee, an agent or a partner of
another person (B), B shall also be guilty of an offence.

 (7) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (6) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (8) It is a defence for a person (B) charged with an offence under
subsection (6) to prove that the offence under subsection (1) was
committed by A without B’s knowledge and that B has taken all
reasonable precautions and exercised due diligence to prevent the
commission of that offence by A.

Causing or permitting another to make representation of oneself
as duly qualified veterinarian, etc.

 31.—(1) An individual (A) shall be guilty of an offence if A causes
or permits a person (B) to make any representation with regard to A
which, if made by A with the requisite intent, would be an offence by A
under section 30.

 (2) An individual who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
36  NO. 11 OF 2026

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), it is a defence for an individual
charged with an offence under subsection (1) to prove that the
individual acted without the intention to deceive or to gain any
advantage, benefit or financial gain for a business, trade, profession,
vocation or employment carried on by the individual.

 (4) Subsection (3) does not apply to an individual charged with an
offence under subsection (1) with respect to a representation
mentioned in section 30(1)(e) if the representation is made in the
prescribed circumstances.

Making representation of another as duly qualified
veterinarian, etc.

 32.—(1) A person (A) shall be guilty of an offence if A makes, with
regard to an individual (B), any representation which, if made by B
with the requisite intent, would be an offence by B under section 30.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (3) It is a defence for a person (A) charged with an offence under
subsection (1) to prove that A acted without the intention to deceive or
to gain any advantage, benefit or financial gain for —

       (a) a business, trade, profession, vocation or employment
            carried on by A or a person on whose behalf A committed
            the act; or

       (b) if A or the person on whose behalf A committed the act is
            established for a charitable purpose or for purposes which
            include a charitable purpose — any activity carried out or
            service provided by A or the person for that purpose.

Liability of registered veterinarian for enabling another to act in
contravention of section 30

 33.—(1) A registered veterinarian shall be guilty of an offence if the
registered veterinarian, by his or her presence, countenance, advice,
assistance or cooperation, knowingly enables an individual (whether
described as an assistant or otherwise) to assume a title in
contravention of section 30.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      37

 (2) It is a defence for a registered veterinarian charged with an
offence under subsection (1) to prove that —

       (a) the contravention of section 30 was due to —

               (i) a mistake on the registered veterinarian’s part;

              (ii) reliance on information supplied to the registered
                   veterinarian; or

             (iii) the act of another person or some other cause beyond
                   the registered veterinarian’s control; and

       (b) the registered veterinarian took all reasonable precautions
            and exercised due diligence to prevent the contravention of
            section 30.

 (3) A registered veterinarian who is guilty of an offence under
subsection (1) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

False assumption of title of specialist

 34.—(1) A registered veterinarian who is not registered under
section 19 as a specialist in a branch of veterinary medicine, or
whose registration as a specialist in a branch of veterinary medicine
is suspended, must not —

       (a) practise veterinary medicine under the name or title of a
            specialist in that branch of veterinary medicine, or under
            any name, title, addition or description implying that the
            registered veterinarian is such a specialist or has any
            degree, qualification, special knowledge, skill or
            experience in that branch of veterinary medicine; or

       (b) advertise, cause or permit another person to advertise, or
            hold himself or herself out as a specialist in that branch of
            veterinary medicine.

 (2) A registered veterinarian (A) must not cause or permit a
person (B) to make any representation with regard to A which, if
made by A with the requisite intent, would contravene subsection (1).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
38  NO. 11 OF 2026

 (3) A disciplinary case may be brought under Part 5 against any
registered veterinarian who contravenes subsection (1) or (2).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      39

Making representation of another as specialist, etc.

 35.—(1) A registered veterinarian must not make any
representation with regard to another registered veterinarian (A)
which, if made by A with the requisite intent, would contravene
section 34(1).

 (2) A registered veterinarian must not, by his or her presence,
countenance, advice, assistance or cooperation, knowingly enable
another registered veterinarian (whether described as an assistant or
otherwise) to assume a title in contravention of section 34(1).

 (3) A disciplinary case may be brought under Part 5 against any
registered veterinarian who contravenes subsection (1) or (2).

Fraudulent registration as registered veterinarian, etc.

 36.—(1) An individual must not —

       (a) obtain or attempt to obtain registration as a registered
            veterinarian, a certificate of registration or a practising
            certificate, by knowingly making or producing or causing
            to be made or produced any false or fraudulent
            declaration, certificate, application, information or
            representation, whether in writing or otherwise;

       (b) wilfully make or cause to be made any false entry in a
            register;

       (c) forge or alter a certificate of registration or a practising
            certificate;

       (d) use or represent as genuine a certificate of registration or a
            practising certificate which he or she knows or has reason
            to believe is forged or altered; or

       (e) buy, sell or fraudulently obtain a certificate of registration
            or a practising certificate.

 (2) An individual who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
40  NO. 11 OF 2026

                                    PART 5

     DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS AND OTHER MATTERS

                Division 1 — Voluntary cancellation and
                      suspension of registration, etc.

Request for voluntary cancellation or suspension of
registration, etc.

 37. A registered veterinarian may request the Council to take one or
more of the actions mentioned in section 38(2) if the registered
veterinarian believes that —

       (a) his or her fitness to practise veterinary medicine is
            impaired by reason of his or her physical or mental
            condition; or

       (b) the quality of the professional services provided by him or
            her does not meet the standard that is reasonable to expect
            of a veterinarian.

Voluntary cancellation or suspension of registration, etc.

 38.—(1) This section applies if —

       (a) a request is made by a registered veterinarian under
            section 37; or

       (b) the Council decides under section 46(1) (read with
            section 45(c)(ii)) to proceed under subsection (2) with
            the written agreement of the registered veterinarian.

 (2) The Council may, with the written agreement of the registered
veterinarian, do one or more of the following:

       (a) cancel the registered veterinarian’s registration;

       (b) suspend the registered veterinarian’s registration for a
            period not exceeding 3 years;

       (c) if the registered veterinarian is a veterinarian with full
            registration, cancel his or her registration and register him
            or her as a veterinarian with restricted registration,
            subject to any condition or restriction, including any
            condition or restriction mentioned in section 18(4);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      41

       (d) if the registered veterinarian is —

               (i) a veterinarian with full registration or a specialist —
                   impose any new or additional condition on the
                   registration, or amend or vary any condition
                   imposed, amended or varied under this Act; or

              (ii) a veterinarian with restricted registration — impose
                   any new or additional condition or restriction on the
                   registration, or amend or vary any condition or
                   restriction imposed, amended or varied under this
                   Act;

       (e) subject to section 23(9), suspend or cancel the registered
            veterinarian’s practising certificate.

 (3) However, the Council must not take any action under
subsection (2) in relation to a registered veterinarian if —

       (a) the Council believes that there is evidence for the making
            of a complaint relating to the registered veterinarian’s act
            or conduct mentioned in section 40(3)(a);

       (b) the Council believes that there is evidence of any matter
            mentioned in section 40(4)(a) or (b); or

       (c) except in the case where subsection (1)(b) applies — a
            disciplinary case has been brought against the registered
            veterinarian under this Part and is pending against the
            registered veterinarian.

 (4) If the Council cancels the registration of an individual under
subsection (2)(a) or (c) or (6)(c), or the practising certificate of an
individual under subsection (2)(e), the Council may specify terms that
the individual must comply with for the purposes of restoration of the
individual’s registration under section 76 or reinstatement of the
individual’s practising certificate, as the case may be.

 (5) If the Council suspends the registration of a registered
veterinarian under subsection (2)(b) or (6)(d), or suspends the
practising certificate of a registered veterinarian under
subsection (2)(e), the Council may specify terms that the registered
veterinarian must comply with under the suspension.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
42  NO. 11 OF 2026

 (6) If a registered veterinarian whose registration is suspended
under paragraph (d) or subsection (2)(b) has contravened —

       (a) the suspension; or

       (b) any term specified under subsection (5) for the suspension,

the Council must make one of the following orders and the Registrar
must, as soon as practicable, give written notice to the registered
veterinarian of the order:

       (c) cancel the registration;

       (d) extend, for a further period not exceeding 12 months, the
            period of suspension of the registration;

       (e) if the registered veterinarian is —

               (i) a veterinarian with full registration or a specialist —
                   impose any new or additional condition on the
                   registration, or amend or vary any condition
                   imposed, amended or varied under this Act; or

              (ii) a veterinarian with restricted registration — impose
                   any new or additional condition or restriction on the
                   registration, or amend or vary any condition or
                   restriction imposed, amended or varied under this
                   Act.

 (7) Subject to section 23(9), if a registered veterinarian whose
practising certificate is suspended under subsection (2)(e) has
contravened —

       (a) the suspension; or

       (b) any term specified under subsection (5) for the suspension,

the Council must cancel the registered veterinarian’s practising
certificate and the Registrar must, as soon as practicable, give
written notice to the registered veterinarian of the cancellation.

 (8) For the purposes of subsections (5) and (6) —

       (a) a reference to a suspension of registration includes an
            extension of the period of suspension of registration under
            subsection (6)(d); and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      43

(b) a reference to a period of suspension of registration
     includes an extended period of suspension of registration
     under subsection (6)(d).

         Division 2 — Inquiries into complaints against and
               information about registered veterinarians

Appointment of Complaints Panel

 39.—(1) For the purpose of enabling Complaints Assessment
Committees, Disciplinary Committees and Interim Orders
Committees to be constituted in accordance with this Part, the
Council must appoint a panel (called in this Act the Complaints
Panel) consisting of the following individuals who are not members
of the Council:

       (a) at least 10 registered veterinarians;

       (b) at least 5 laypersons.

 (2) A member of the Complaints Panel is appointed for a term of
2 years and is eligible for re‑appointment.

 (3) The Council may, at any time, revoke the appointment of any
member of the Complaints Panel or fill any vacancy in its
membership.

 (4) The production of any written instrument purporting to be
signed by the Council and making any appointment or revocation of a
member of the Complaints Panel is evidence that the appointment or
revocation has been duly made.

Bringing disciplinary case against registered veterinarian

 40.—(1) A person may bring a disciplinary case against a
registered veterinarian by making a complaint against, or
providing any information about, the registered veterinarian to the
Council on any matter mentioned in subsection (3) or (4).

 (2) Every disciplinary case mentioned in subsection (1) or
section 41(3) must —

       (a) be made in writing;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
44  NO. 11 OF 2026

       (b) be supported by a statutory declaration, unless the
            disciplinary case is brought by a public officer, an
            officer or employee of a public authority or the Council;
            and

       (c) be accompanied by any relevant document or information
            that is in the possession of the complainant.

 (3) The complaint mentioned in subsection (1) or section 41(3) is a
complaint —

       (a) relating to —

               (i) the conduct of a registered veterinarian in his or her
                   professional capacity; or

              (ii) a registered veterinarian’s improper act or conduct
                   which brings disrepute to his or her profession; or

       (b) that the quality of the professional services provided by a
            registered veterinarian does not meet the standard that is
            reasonable to expect of a veterinarian.

 (4) The information mentioned in subsection (1) or section 41(3) is
information relating to —

       (a) the conviction in Singapore or elsewhere of a registered
            veterinarian of any offence involving fraud, dishonesty or
            moral turpitude, or implying a defect in character that
            makes him or her unfit to practise veterinary medicine;

       (b) the death of any animal resulting from the conduct of a
            registered veterinarian in his or her professional capacity;
            or

       (c) the physical or mental fitness of a registered veterinarian
            to practise veterinary medicine.

Referral of disciplinary case to Registrar

 41.—(1) Subject to subsection (2) and sections 42(1) and 43, the
Council must, after receiving any disciplinary case under
section 40(1), refer the disciplinary case to the Registrar for review.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      45

 (2) The Council need not refer the disciplinary case to the Registrar
for review if the disciplinary case relates to any matter set out in
section 26(1)(a) to (g) or (2) and, in such a case, the Council or
Registrar (as the case may be) may take any action authorised under
that section.

 (3) Subject to sections 42(2) and 43, the Council may also, on its
own motion, bring a disciplinary case against a registered
veterinarian by making a complaint against, or providing any
information about, the registered veterinarian on any matter
mentioned in section 40(3) or (4) to the Registrar for review.

Limitation period for referral of disciplinary case

 42.—(1) Subject to section 43, the Council must not refer a
disciplinary case to the Registrar under section 41(1) if the
disciplinary case is brought to the Council under section 40(1)
after the end of the later of the following periods:

       (a) 3 years after the date of the act, conduct or occurrence that
            is the subject matter of the disciplinary case;

       (b) 3 years after the earliest date on which the complainant
            had knowledge of the act, conduct or occurrence, or could
            with reasonable diligence have discovered it.

 (2) Subject to section 43, the Council must not refer a disciplinary
case to the Registrar on its own motion under section 41(3) after the
end of the later of the following periods:

       (a) 3 years after the date of the act, conduct or occurrence that
            is the subject matter of the disciplinary case;

       (b) 3 years after the earliest date on which the Council had
            knowledge of the act, conduct or occurrence, or could with
            reasonable diligence have discovered it.

 (3) In this section, “knowledge” includes the knowledge that a
person may reasonably have been expected to acquire —

       (a) from facts observable or ascertainable by the person; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
46  NO. 11 OF 2026

       (b) from facts ascertainable by the person with the help of
            appropriate expert advice, which is reasonable for the
            person to seek.

Assessment of disciplinary case for referral to Registrar despite
limitation period

 43.—(1) If the applicable period mentioned in section 42(1) or (2)
has expired for a disciplinary case, the Council must refer the
disciplinary case to a member of the Council appointed by the
Council (called in this section the appointed member) for an
assessment mentioned in subsection (3).

 (2) The referral under subsection (1) must be made —

       (a) for a disciplinary case mentioned in section 42(1) — within
            2 weeks after the Council receives the disciplinary case; or

       (b) for a disciplinary case mentioned in section 42(2) — as
            soon as practicable.

 (3) The appointed member who is referred a disciplinary case
under subsection (1) must, within 3 weeks after the referral, inform
the Council of his or her assessment whether it is in the public interest
for the disciplinary case to be referred to the Registrar despite the
expiry of the applicable period mentioned in section 42(1) or (2).

 (4) If the appointed member informs the Council that he or she is of
the opinion that it is in the public interest to refer the disciplinary case
to the Registrar, the Council must, within 2 weeks after receipt of the
appointed member’s assessment, refer the disciplinary case to the
Registrar under section 41(1) or (3), as the case may be.

 (5) The appointed person must not be —

       (a) the Registrar;

       (b) if the disciplinary case is intended to be brought by the
            Council — any member of the Council who participated in
            (or is or will be participating in) or influenced (or is or will
            be influencing) the Council’s decision to bring the
            disciplinary case under section 41(3); or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      47

       (c) if section 75(1) applies to the disciplinary case — any
            member of the Council who participated in (or is or will be
            participating in) or influenced (or is or will be influencing)
            the Council’s decision to refer the disciplinary case under
            section 41(3) to the Registrar for review despite the
            withdrawal of the disciplinary case.

Review of disciplinary case by Registrar

 44.—(1) After a disciplinary case is referred to the Registrar under
section 41(1) or (3), the Registrar must review whether there is
sufficient merit in the disciplinary case to warrant the institution of
disciplinary proceedings under this Part against the registered
veterinarian.

 (2) The Registrar may, for the purpose of the review —

       (a) enlist the assistance of any member of the Complaints
            Panel; and

       (b) require the complainant or the registered veterinarian to
            answer any question, or produce any document or provide
            any information, that the Registrar considers to be
            relevant.

Findings and recommendation of Registrar

 45. After reviewing a disciplinary case under section 44, the
Registrar must report his or her findings to the Council and
recommend to the Council to —

       (a) if the Registrar finds that the disciplinary case is frivolous,
            vexatious, misconceived, without merit or
            unsubstantiated — dismiss the disciplinary case;

       (b) if the Registrar believes that there is evidence of any matter
            mentioned in section 40(4)(a) — refer the disciplinary case
            to a Disciplinary Committee for a formal inquiry; and

       (c) in any other case —

               (i) if the Registrar believes that there is evidence of any
                   matter mentioned in section 40(3) or (4)(b) or of any
                   contravention of an interim suspension order made

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
48  NO. 11 OF 2026

                   against the registered veterinarian or any term
                   specified for any such interim suspension order —
                   refer the disciplinary case to a Complaints
                   Assessment Committee for an inquiry; or

              (ii) if the Registrar believes that there is only evidence of
                   any matter mentioned in section 40(4)(c) — notify
                   the registered veterinarian of the evidence and, with
                   the written agreement of the registered veterinarian,
                   proceed under section 38(2).

Decision of Council after recommendation by Registrar

 46.—(1) After receiving the findings and recommendation of the
Registrar on a disciplinary case against a registered veterinarian, the
Council may —

       (a) accept the recommendation and take the recommended
            action; or

       (b) take any other action mentioned in section 45.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(b), a reference to a finding or
belief of the Registrar in section 45 is a reference to a finding or belief
of the Council.

 (3) If the Council decides to take the action mentioned in
section 45(c)(ii), but the Council and the registered veterinarian
are unable to agree on the course of action to be taken under
section 38(2), the Council must refer the matter to a Complaints
Assessment Committee for an inquiry.

 (4) If the disciplinary case is referred to a Complaints Assessment
Committee or Disciplinary Committee for an inquiry or a formal
inquiry (as the case may be) under subsection (1) or (3) —

       (a) the Registrar must, as soon as practicable, give written
            notice to the registered veterinarian of the referral; and

       (b) the Registrar must provide the registered veterinarian with
            a copy of —

               (i) the complaint or information (as the case may be) to
                   which the disciplinary case relates; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      49

              (ii) any statutory declaration (if any) made in support of
                   the disciplinary case.

 (5) The following members of the Council must not participate in or
influence the decision of the Council under subsection (1):

       (a) the Registrar;

       (b) if the disciplinary case is brought after the expiry of the
            applicable period mentioned in section 42(1) or (2) — the
            appointed member mentioned in section 43 for the
            disciplinary case;

       (c) if the Council is the complainant in the disciplinary case —
            any member of the Council who participated in or
            influenced the Council’s decision to bring the
            disciplinary case under section 41(3);

       (d) if the Council makes a referral, takes an action or gives a
            direction mentioned in section 75(1) for the continuation of
            a disciplinary case despite the withdrawal of the
            disciplinary case — any member of the Council who
            participated in or influenced the Council’s decision to
            make the referral, take the action or give the direction;

       (e) any member of an Interim Orders Committee that inquired
            into or reviewed, or is inquiring into or reviewing, the
            disciplinary case.

 (6) To avoid doubt, a member of the Council (not being a member
mentioned in subsection (5)) who participated in or influenced any
other decision of the Council on the disciplinary case under this Part
is not, by reason only of such participation or influence, disqualified
from participating in or influencing the Council’s decision under
subsection (1).

           Division 3 — Complaints Assessment Committees

Appointment of Complaints Assessment Committee

 47.—(1) If the Council decides to refer a disciplinary case to a
Complaints Assessment Committee for an inquiry, the disciplinary

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
50  NO. 11 OF 2026

case must be referred to a Complaints Assessment Committee
appointed under this section.

 (2) The Council may appoint a Complaints Assessment Committee
comprising 3 or more members of the Complaints Panel, of whom —

       (a) subject to subsection (3), at least one member must be a
            registered veterinarian with at least 8 years’ experience as
            a veterinarian; and

       (b) at least one member must be a layperson.

 (3) If, in the Council’s opinion, it is inexpedient, difficult or
impracticable to appoint a registered veterinarian mentioned in
subsection (2)(a), the Council may appoint to the Complaints
Assessment Committee any other registered veterinarian from
among the members of the Complaints Panel.

 (4) The Council must appoint as the chairperson of the Complaints
Assessment Committee —

       (a) a member of the Complaints Assessment Committee who
            satisfies subsection (2)(a); or

       (b) if subsection (3) applies — a member of the Complaints
            Assessment Committee who is a registered veterinarian.

 (5) The following members of the Complaints Panel must not be a
member of a Complaints Assessment Committee for a disciplinary
case:

       (a) any member of the Complaints Panel who assisted the
            Registrar in reviewing the disciplinary case under
            section 44(2)(a);

       (b) any member of an Interim Orders Committee that inquired
            into or reviewed, or is inquiring into or reviewing, the
            disciplinary case;

       (c) an investigator appointed to investigate the disciplinary
            case.

 (6) A Complaints Assessment Committee may be appointed in
connection with one or more disciplinary cases or for a fixed period
of time, as the Council thinks fit.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      51

Powers and procedures of Complaints Assessment Committee

 48.—(1) For the purposes of an inquiry into a disciplinary case, a
Complaints Assessment Committee may require any person —

       (a) to attend at a specified time and place and give evidence
            before the Complaints Assessment Committee; and

       (b) to produce all books, documents and papers in the custody,
            or under the control, of the person which may be related to
            or be connected with the subject matter of the inquiry.

 (2) Any person who, without lawful excuse —

       (a) refuses or fails to comply with any requirement of the
            Complaints Assessment Committee under subsection (1);
            or

       (b) refuses to answer any question put to the person by a
            member of the Complaints Assessment Committee,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $50 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) Any person who —

       (a) knowingly gives a false answer to any question put to the
            person by a member of the Complaints Assessment
            Committee; or

       (b) knowingly gives any document, information or material to
            the Complaints Assessment Committee that is false or
            misleading, or that omits any matter or thing without which
            the document, information or material is misleading,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $50 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
52  NO. 11 OF 2026

 (4) Subject to any regulations made under section 87, a Complaints
Assessment Committee may regulate its own procedure for an
inquiry.

 (5) For the purposes of its inquiry into a disciplinary case, a
Complaints Assessment Committee may direct an investigator to
investigate the disciplinary case.

 (6) A Complaints Assessment Committee must complete its inquiry
into the disciplinary case within 3 months after the date on which the
disciplinary case is referred to it, unless the Council, on application
of the Complaints Assessment Committee, allows otherwise.

Appointment of experts and legal counsel for inquiry before
Complaints Assessment Committee

 49.—(1) For the purposes of an inquiry before a Complaints
Assessment Committee, the Council may appoint one or more of the
following:

       (a) an independent expert;

       (b) an advocate and solicitor to advise the Complaints
            Assessment Committee on any legal matter relating to
            the inquiry.

 (2) Before appointing any independent expert under
subsection (1)(a), the Council must give the registered veterinarian
concerned an opportunity to make representations on the proposed
appointment.

 (3) The representations mentioned in subsection (2) may be made in
writing or, if the Council allows, in person.

 (4) The Council may, instead of or in addition to appointing an
independent expert under subsection (1)(a), allow the registered
veterinarian concerned to appoint an independent expert at the
registered veterinarian’s own expense.

 (5) If an independent expert or an advocate and solicitor is
appointed under subsection (1), the Council may pay him or her, as
part of the expenses of the Council, any remuneration that the
Council may determine.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      53

 (6) If an independent expert or an advocate and solicitor appointed
under subsection (1) is an employee, any remuneration payable to the
independent expert or advocate and solicitor under subsection (5)
may be paid to his or her employer.

Findings and recommendation of Complaints Assessment
Committee

 50. After due inquiry into a disciplinary case, the Complaints
Assessment Committee must report its findings to the Council and
recommend to the Council to —

       (a) dismiss the disciplinary case;

       (b) refer the disciplinary case to a Disciplinary Committee for
            a formal inquiry; or

       (c) take one or more of the following actions:

               (i) issue either a letter of advice or a letter of warning to
                   the registered veterinarian;

              (ii) direct the registered veterinarian to undertake and
                   complete specified further education or training
                   within a specified period;

             (iii) if the complainant is not the Council — refer the
                   disciplinary case for mediation between the
                   registered veterinarian and the complainant;

             (iv) take any other action against the registered
                   veterinarian.

Decision of Council after recommendation by Complaints
Assessment Committee

 51.—(1) After receiving the findings and recommendation of a
Complaints Assessment Committee on a disciplinary case against a
registered veterinarian, the Council may —

       (a) accept the recommendation and take the recommended
            action;

       (b) take an action mentioned in section 50(a) or (b) or take one
            or more actions mentioned in section 50(c); or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
54  NO. 11 OF 2026

       (c) refer the disciplinary case back to the Complaints
            Assessment Committee or another Complaints
            Assessment Committee appointed in its place for further
            inquiry.

 (2) The Council must not take any action mentioned in
section 50(c)(i), (ii) or (iv) unless the Council is satisfied that the
Complaints Assessment Committee had given the registered
veterinarian an opportunity to make representations either
personally or by counsel as to why that action should not be taken
against him or her.

 (3) The representations mentioned in subsection (2) may be made in
writing or, if the Complaints Assessment Committee allows, in
person.

 (4) If the Council takes any action mentioned in section 50(c)(ii) or
(iv) and the registered veterinarian contravenes any requirement of
the action —

       (a) the Council may refer the disciplinary case to a
            Disciplinary Committee for a formal inquiry; and

       (b) upon such referral, any other action taken by the Council
            under subsection (1)(a) or (b) (read with section 50(c)) on
            the disciplinary case is revoked.

 (5) The Registrar must, as soon as practicable, give written notice
of the Council’s decision under subsection (1) or (4) to the registered
veterinarian and the complainant (if the complainant is not the
Council).

 (6) If the Council takes any action mentioned in section 50(c)(i), (ii)
or (iv) and the registered veterinarian is dissatisfied with that
decision, the registered veterinarian may, within 30 days after service
of the notice mentioned in subsection (5), appeal to the Minister
whose decision is final.

 (7) If the Council takes any action mentioned in section 50(a) or
(c)(i), (ii) or (iv) and the complainant is dissatisfied with that
decision, the complainant may, within 30 days after service of the
notice mentioned in subsection (5), appeal to the Minister whose
decision is final.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      55

 (8) The Minister may, in an appeal made under subsection (6)
or (7) —

       (a) affirm the decision of the Council;

       (b) refer the disciplinary case to a Disciplinary Committee for
            a formal inquiry;

       (c) dismiss the disciplinary case (if no other action is taken
            under subsection (1)(a) or (b) (read with section 50(c)) on
            the disciplinary case) or revoke the decision of the Council
            (in any other case); or

       (d) make any other order that the Minister thinks fit.

 (9) The Registrar must, as soon as practicable, give written notice
of the Minister’s decision under subsection (8) to the registered
veterinarian and the complainant (if the complainant is not the
Council).

 (10) If the Minister refers the disciplinary case to a Disciplinary
Committee under subsection (8)(b), any decision of the Council under
subsection (1)(a) or (b) on the disciplinary case is revoked.

 (11) The following members of the Council must not participate in
or influence the decision of the Council under subsection (1) or (4) or
section 52(3), (4), (5) or (7):

       (a) the Registrar;

       (b) if the disciplinary case is brought after the expiry of the
            applicable period mentioned in section 42(1) or (2) — the
            appointed member mentioned in section 43 for the
            disciplinary case;

       (c) if the Council is the complainant in the disciplinary case —
            any member of the Council who participated in or
            influenced the Council’s decision to bring the
            disciplinary case under section 41(3);

       (d) if the Council makes a referral, takes an action or gives a
            direction mentioned in section 75(1) for the continuation of
            a disciplinary case despite the withdrawal of the
            disciplinary case — any member of the Council who

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
56  NO. 11 OF 2026

            participated in or influenced the Council’s decision to
            make the referral, take the action or give the direction;

       (e) any member of an Interim Orders Committee that inquired
            into or reviewed, or is inquiring into or reviewing, the
            disciplinary case;

        (f) an investigator appointed to investigate the disciplinary
            case.

 (12) To avoid doubt, a member of the Council (not being a member
mentioned in subsection (11)) who participated in or influenced any
other decision of the Council on the disciplinary case under this Part
is not, by reason only of such participation or influence, disqualified
from participating in or influencing the Council’s decision under
subsection (1) or (4) or section 52(3), (4), (5) or (7).

                          Division 4 — Mediation

Mediation

 52.—(1) If a disciplinary case is referred for mediation under
section 51, the Council may direct the personal attendance of the
complainant and the registered veterinarian before a mediator
specified by the Council.

 (2) The mediator must submit a report to the Council on the
outcome of the mediation.

 (3) If the complainant refuses or fails, without reasonable cause, to
comply with the direction under subsection (1), the Council may
dismiss the disciplinary case.

 (4) If the registered veterinarian refuses or fails, without
reasonable cause, to comply with the direction under
subsection (1), the Council may —

       (a) refer the disciplinary case to a Disciplinary Committee for
            a formal inquiry; or

       (b) subject to section 51(2), take one or more actions
            mentioned in section 50(c)(i), (ii) or (iv).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      57

 (5) If the mediation does not take place for any other reason, or the
disciplinary case is not amicably resolved through mediation, the
Council may —

       (a) dismiss the disciplinary case (if no other action is taken
            under section 51(1)(a) or (b) (read with section 50(c)) on
            the disciplinary case) or take no further action on the
            disciplinary case (in any other case);

       (b) refer the disciplinary case to a Disciplinary Committee for
            a formal inquiry; or

       (c) subject to section 51(2), take one or more actions
            mentioned in section 50(c)(i), (ii) or (iv).

 (6) If the Council refers the disciplinary case to a Disciplinary
Committee under subsection (5)(b), any other action taken by the
Council under section 51(1)(a) or (b) (read with section 50(c)) on the
disciplinary case is revoked.

 (7) If the disciplinary case is amicably resolved through mediation,
the Council may —

       (a) discontinue the disciplinary case (if no other action is
            taken under section 51(1)(a) or (b) (read with
            section 50(c)) on the disciplinary case) or take no
            further action on the disciplinary case (in any other
            case); or

       (b) subject to section 51(2), take one or more actions
            mentioned in section 50(c)(i), (ii) or (iv).

 (8) The Registrar must, as soon as practicable, give written notice
to the registered veterinarian and the complainant of the Council’s
decision under subsection (3), (4), (5) or (7).

 (9) If a registered veterinarian is dissatisfied with a decision of the
Council under this section to take any action mentioned in
section 50(c)(i), (ii) or (iv) against the registered veterinarian, the
registered veterinarian may, within 30 days after service of the notice
mentioned in subsection (8), appeal to the Minister whose decision is
final.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
58  NO. 11 OF 2026

 (10) If a complainant is dissatisfied with a decision of the Council
under this section to dismiss or discontinue, or take no further action
on, a disciplinary case or take any action mentioned in
section 50(c)(i), (ii) or (iv), the complainant may, within 30 days
after service of the notice mentioned in subsection (8), appeal to the
Minister whose decision is final.

 (11) The Minister may, in an appeal made under subsection (9) or
(10) —

       (a) affirm the decision of the Council;

       (b) refer the disciplinary case to a Disciplinary Committee for
            a formal inquiry;

       (c) dismiss the disciplinary case (if no other action is taken
            under section 51(1)(a) or (b) (read with section 50(c)) on
            the disciplinary case) or revoke the decision of the Council
            (in any other case); or

       (d) make any other order that the Minister thinks fit.

 (12) The Registrar must, as soon as practicable, give written notice
of the Minister’s decision under subsection (11) to the registered
veterinarian and the complainant.

 (13) If the Minister refers the disciplinary case to a Disciplinary
Committee under subsection (11)(b), any decision taken by the
Council under section 51(1)(a) or (b) on the disciplinary case is
revoked.

                 Division 5 — Disciplinary Committees

Appointment of Disciplinary Committee

 53.—(1) If the Council decides to refer a disciplinary case to a
Disciplinary Committee for a formal inquiry, the disciplinary case
must be referred to a Disciplinary Committee appointed under this
section.

 (2) The Council may appoint a Disciplinary Committee comprising
3 or more members from among the members of the Council and
members of the Complaints Panel, of whom —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      59

       (a) subject to subsection (3), at least one member must be a
            member of the Council and a registered veterinarian with
            at least 8 years’ experience as a veterinarian;

       (b) subject to subsection (3), at least one member must be a
            member of the Complaints Panel and a registered
            veterinarian with at least 8 years’ experience as a
            veterinarian; and

       (c) subject to subsection (4), at least one member must be a
            member of the Complaints Panel and a legal professional.

 (3) If, in the Council’s opinion, it is inexpedient, difficult or
impracticable to appoint a registered veterinarian mentioned in
subsection (2)(a) or (b), the Council may appoint to the Disciplinary
Committee any other registered veterinarian from among the
members of the Council or the members of the Complaints Panel,
as the case may be.

 (4) If, in the Council’s opinion, it is inexpedient, difficult or
impracticable to appoint under subsection (2)(c) a legal professional,
the Council may appoint to the Disciplinary Committee, from among
the members of the Complaints Panel —

       (a) an advocate and solicitor who has less than 10 years’
            standing; or

       (b) a Judicial Service Officer or Legal Service Officer who has
            less than 10 years of full‑time employment in the Singapore
            Judicial Service or the Singapore Legal Service (or both).

 (5) The Council must appoint as the chairperson of the Disciplinary
Committee —

       (a) a member of the Disciplinary Committee who satisfies
            subsection (2)(a); or

       (b) if subsection (3) applies — a member of the Disciplinary
            Committee who is a member of the Council and a
            registered veterinarian.

 (6) The Council must also appoint a member of the Complaints
Panel who is a layperson as the observer of the proceedings of the
Disciplinary Committee.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
60  NO. 11 OF 2026

 (7) The following members of the Council or the Complaints Panel
must not be a member or an observer of a Disciplinary Committee for
a disciplinary case:

       (a) the Registrar;

       (b) if the disciplinary case is brought after the expiry of the
            applicable period mentioned in section 42(1) or (2) — the
            appointed member mentioned in section 43 for the
            disciplinary case;

       (c) any member of the Complaints Panel who assisted the
            Registrar in reviewing the disciplinary case under
            section 44(2)(a);

       (d) if a Complaints Assessment Committee has conducted an
            inquiry in respect of the disciplinary case — any member of
            that Committee;

       (e) if the Council is the complainant in the disciplinary case —
            any member of the Council who participated in or
            influenced the Council’s decision to bring the
            disciplinary case under section 41(3);

        (f) if the Council makes a referral, takes an action or gives a
            direction mentioned in section 75(1) for the continuation of
            a disciplinary case despite the withdrawal of the
            disciplinary case — any member of the Council who
            participated in or influenced the Council’s decision to
            make the referral, take the action or give the direction;

       (g) any member of an Interim Orders Committee that inquired
            into or reviewed, or is inquiring into or reviewing, the
            disciplinary case;

       (h) an investigator appointed to investigate the disciplinary
            case.

 (8) To avoid doubt, a member of the Council (not being a member
mentioned in subsection (7)) who participated in or influenced any
other decision of the Council on a disciplinary case under this Part is
not, by reason only of such participation or influence, disqualified

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      61

from being a member of a Disciplinary Committee for the disciplinary
case.

 (9) An observer appointed to a Disciplinary Committee must not
vote on any question or matter to be decided by the Disciplinary
Committee and does not have to be present at every meeting of the
Disciplinary Committee.

 (10) A Disciplinary Committee may be appointed in connection
with one or more disciplinary cases or for a fixed period of time, as
the Council thinks fit.

Powers and procedures of Disciplinary Committee

 54.—(1) If a disciplinary case against a registered veterinarian is
referred to a Disciplinary Committee for a formal inquiry —

       (a) subject to subsection (2), the Disciplinary Committee must
            fix the formal inquiry on a date no earlier than 21 days
            after the date of service of the notice of the referral on the
            registered veterinarian under section 46(4), 51(5) or (9) or
            52(8) or (12); and

       (b) the Registrar must, as soon as practicable, give written
            notice to the registered veterinarian of the date of the
            formal inquiry.

 (2) The Disciplinary Committee may, with the agreement of the
registered veterinarian, fix the formal inquiry on a date earlier than
21 days after the date of service of the notice mentioned in
subsection (1)(a).

 (3) The registered veterinarian may, by application to the
Disciplinary Committee, request for the postponement of the
formal inquiry, and the Disciplinary Committee may postpone the
formal inquiry to a date that it determines, or refuse the application.

 (4) For the purposes of the formal inquiry, the Disciplinary
Committee may require any person —

       (a) to attend at a specified time and place and give evidence
            before the Disciplinary Committee; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
62  NO. 11 OF 2026

       (b) to produce all books, documents and papers in the custody,
            or under the control, of the person which may be related to
            or be connected with the subject matter of the formal
            inquiry.

 (5) Any person who, without lawful excuse —

       (a) refuses or fails to comply with any requirement of the
            Disciplinary Committee under subsection (4); or

       (b) refuses to answer any question put to the person by a
            member of the Disciplinary Committee,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $50 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

 (6) Any person who —

       (a) knowingly gives a false answer to any question put to the
            person by a member of the Disciplinary Committee; or

       (b) knowingly gives any document, information or material to
            the Disciplinary Committee that is false or misleading, or
            that omits any matter or thing without which the document,
            information or material is misleading,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $50 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

 (7) The Disciplinary Committee —

       (a) is not bound to act in any formal manner and is not bound
            by the provisions of the Evidence Act 1893 or by any other
            written law relating to evidence, but may inform itself on
            any matter in any manner that it thinks fit;

       (b) may administer an oath or affirmation to any person giving
            evidence before it; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      63

       (c) may, subject to any regulations made under section 87,
            regulate its own procedure for a formal inquiry.

 (8) Any party to the formal inquiry before the Disciplinary
Committee may take out a subpoena to testify or to produce any
document, and the subpoena must be served and may be enforced as if
it were an order to attend court or an order to produce any document
issued in connection with a civil action in the General Division of the
High Court.

 (9) Any person giving evidence in the formal inquiry before the
Disciplinary Committee is legally bound to tell the truth.

 (10) Any person giving evidence in the formal inquiry before the
Disciplinary Committee has the same privileges and immunities in
relation to the formal inquiry as if it were a proceeding in a court of
law.

 (11) For the purposes of the formal inquiry into the disciplinary
case, the Disciplinary Committee may direct an investigator to
investigate the disciplinary case.

 (12) The Disciplinary Committee must complete its formal inquiry
into the disciplinary case within 6 months after the date on which the
disciplinary case is referred to it, unless the Council, on application
of the Disciplinary Committee, allows otherwise.

 (13) Any member of the Council who is a member of the
Disciplinary Committee must not participate in or influence the
decision of the Council under subsection (12).

Appointment of experts and legal counsel for formal inquiry
before Disciplinary Committee

 55.—(1) For the purposes of a formal inquiry before a Disciplinary
Committee, the Council may appoint one or more of the following:

       (a) an independent expert;

       (b) an advocate and solicitor to prosecute the disciplinary
            case, or to advise the Disciplinary Committee on any legal
            matter relating to the formal inquiry.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
64  NO. 11 OF 2026

 (2) Before appointing any independent expert under
subsection (1)(a), the Council must give the registered veterinarian
concerned an opportunity to make representations on the proposed
appointment.

 (3) The representations mentioned in subsection (2) may be made in
writing or, if the Council allows, in person.

 (4) The Council may, instead of or in addition to appointing an
independent expert under subsection (1)(a), allow the registered
veterinarian concerned to appoint an independent expert at the
registered veterinarian’s own expense.

 (5) If an independent expert or an advocate and solicitor is
appointed under subsection (1), the Council may pay him or her, as
part of the expenses of the Council, any remuneration that the
Council may determine.

 (6) If an independent expert or an advocate and solicitor appointed
under subsection (1) is an employee, any remuneration payable to the
independent expert or advocate and solicitor under subsection (5)
may be paid to his or her employer.

Findings and order of Disciplinary Committee

 56.—(1) During the formal inquiry, if a registered veterinarian is
found by a Disciplinary Committee —

       (a) to have been convicted in Singapore or elsewhere of any
            offence involving fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude;

       (b) to have been convicted in Singapore or elsewhere of any
            offence implying a defect in character which makes him or
            her unfit to practise veterinary medicine;

       (c) to have been guilty of professional misconduct;

       (d) to have been guilty of any improper act or conduct which,
            in the opinion of the Disciplinary Committee, brings
            disrepute to his or her profession;

       (e) to have failed to provide professional services of the
            quality that meets the standard that is reasonable to expect
            of a veterinarian;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      65

        (f) to have his or her fitness to practise veterinary medicine
            impaired by reason of his or her physical or mental
            condition; or

       (g) if the registered veterinarian’s registration is suspended
            under an interim suspension order — to have contravened
            the suspension or any term specified for the interim
            suspension order,

the Disciplinary Committee may make one or more orders under
subsection (2).

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the orders that a
Disciplinary Committee may make against the registered
veterinarian are —

       (a) cancellation of the registered veterinarian’s registration;

       (b) suspension of the registered veterinarian’s registration for
            a period not exceeding 3 years;

       (c) if the registered veterinarian is —

               (i) a veterinarian with full registration or a specialist —
                   imposition of any new or additional condition on that
                   registration, or amendment or variation of any
                   condition imposed, amended or varied under this
                   Act; or

              (ii) a veterinarian with restricted registration —
                   imposition of any new or additional condition or
                   restriction on that registration, or amendment or
                   variation of any condition or restriction imposed,
                   amended or varied under this Act;

       (d) subject to section 23(9), suspension or cancellation of the
            registered veterinarian’s practising certificate;

       (e) imposition of a penalty not exceeding $50,000;

        (f) censure of the registered veterinarian;

       (g) issuance of either an advisory or a warning to the
            registered veterinarian;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
66  NO. 11 OF 2026

       (h) requirement for the registered veterinarian to give any
            undertaking that the Disciplinary Committee thinks fit to
            abstain in future from the conduct complained of;

        (i) requirement for the registered veterinarian to undertake
            and complete further education or training, within a
            period, specified by the Disciplinary Committee;

        (j) referral of the disciplinary case for mediation and
            direction for the attendance of the complainant and
            registered veterinarian before a mediator specified by
            the Disciplinary Committee; and

       (k) any other order that the Disciplinary Committee thinks fit.

 (3) If a conviction of the registered veterinarian for a criminal
offence is relevant to the disciplinary case, the Disciplinary
Committee and the General Division of the High Court on appeal
from any order of the Disciplinary Committee are to accept his or her
conviction as final and conclusive.

 (4) The Disciplinary Committee must dismiss the disciplinary case
if the Disciplinary Committee does not make a finding mentioned in
subsection (1).

 (5) If the Disciplinary Committee cancels the registration or
practising certificate of the registered veterinarian under
subsection (2)(a) or (d) (as the case may be), the Disciplinary
Committee may specify terms that he or she must comply with for the
purposes of restoration of his or her registration under section 76 or
reinstatement of his or her practising certificate, as the case may be.

 (6) If the Disciplinary Committee suspends the registration or
practising certificate of the registered veterinarian under
subsection (2)(b) or (d) (as the case may be), the Disciplinary
Committee may specify terms that he or she must comply with under
the suspension.

 (7) If the Disciplinary Committee makes an order under
subsection (2), the Disciplinary Committee may also —

       (a) order the registered veterinarian to pay to the Council the
            costs and expenses of and incidental to any proceedings

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      67

            before the Disciplinary Committee and, where applicable,
            an Interim Orders Committee (called in this section the
            costs); and

       (b) in the order, specify the amount of the costs.

 (8) The costs mentioned in subsection (7) include —

       (a) the costs and expenses of any independent expert
            appointed under section 55(1)(a), any advocate and
            solicitor appointed under section 55(1)(b) or any
            assessor appointed under section 80 for the Disciplinary
            Committee;

       (b) the costs and expenses of any independent expert
            appointed under section 65(1)(a), any advocate and
            solicitor appointed under section 65(1)(b) or any
            assessor appointed under section 80 for the Interim
            Orders Committee mentioned in that subsection;

       (c) any reasonable expenses that the Council may pay to
            witnesses; and

       (d) any reasonable expenses that are necessary for the conduct
            of proceedings before the Disciplinary Committee and the
            Interim Orders Committee mentioned in that subsection.

 (9) For the purposes of an order made under subsection (7), the
Disciplinary Committee may certify that costs for more than
one advocate and solicitor must be paid, if the Disciplinary
Committee is satisfied that the issues involved in the proceedings
are of sufficient complexity, and the certification by the Disciplinary
Committee has the same effect as if it were a certification by a Judge
in a civil action in the General Division of the High Court.

 (10) The General Division of the High Court has jurisdiction to tax
any costs mentioned in subsection (7) and any order for costs made by
the General Division of the High Court is enforceable as if it were
ordered in connection with a civil action in the General Division of
the High Court.

 (11) The penalty under subsection (2)(e) is recoverable as a debt
due to the Government.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
68  NO. 11 OF 2026

 (12) The costs payable to the Council under subsection (7) are
recoverable as a debt due to the Council.

 (13) All penalties collected or recovered under this section must be
paid into the Consolidated Fund.

 (14) All costs collected or recovered by the Council under this
section must be paid to the Council.

Further orders by Disciplinary Committee

 57.—(1) A Disciplinary Committee may suspend (for a period not
exceeding 12 months) or cancel the registration of a registered
veterinarian if —

       (a) any condition or restriction has been imposed on the
            registration, or any condition or restriction of the
            registration has been amended or varied, by —

               (i) the Disciplinary Committee or another Disciplinary
                   Committee under subsection (2), (3)(c) or (10) or
                   section 56(2)(c); or

              (ii) an Interim Orders Committee under section 66(2)(e)
                   or 68(3)(b); and

       (b) the registered veterinarian is subsequently found by the
            Disciplinary Committee to have failed to comply with the
            condition or restriction.

 (2) If a Disciplinary Committee suspends the registration of a
registered veterinarian under subsection (1) or (8), the Disciplinary
Committee may also —

       (a) if the registered veterinarian is a veterinarian with full
            registration or a specialist — impose any new or
            additional condition on that registration, or amend or
            vary any condition imposed, amended or varied under this
            Act; or

       (b) if the registered veterinarian is a veterinarian with
            restricted registration — impose any new or additional
            condition or restriction on that registration, or amend or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      69

            vary any condition or restriction imposed, amended or
            varied under this Act.

 (3) If a registered veterinarian, whose registration is suspended
under paragraph (b), subsection (1) or (8) or section 56(2)(b),
contravenes the suspension or any term specified under
subsection (6) or section 56(6) for the suspension, a Disciplinary
Committee (whether the Disciplinary Committee that made the order
of suspension or another Disciplinary Committee appointed in its
place) must do one of the following:

       (a) cancel the registration;

       (b) extend, for a further period not exceeding 12 months, the
            period of suspension of the registration;

       (c) if the registered veterinarian is —

               (i) a veterinarian with full registration or a specialist —
                   impose any new or additional condition on the
                   registration, or amend or vary any condition
                   imposed, amended or varied under this Act; or

              (ii) a veterinarian with restricted registration — impose
                   any new or additional condition or restriction on the
                   registration, or amend or vary any condition or
                   restriction imposed, amended or varied under this
                   Act.

 (4) If a Disciplinary Committee decides to suspend or cancel the
registration of a registered veterinarian under subsection (1), (3)(a)
or (8) or section 56(2)(a) or (b), the Disciplinary Committee may,
despite section 60(1) or an appeal under section 62, but subject to
section 60(2), order that the registration be suspended or cancelled
(as the case may be) immediately if it is satisfied that the immediate
suspension or cancellation (as the case may be) —

       (a) is necessary for the protection of members of the public or
            is otherwise in the public interest;

       (b) is in the interests of animal health or welfare; or

       (c) is in the interests of the registered veterinarian.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
70  NO. 11 OF 2026

 (5) If a Disciplinary Committee cancels the registration of a
registered veterinarian under subsection (1), (3)(a) or (8), the
Disciplinary Committee may specify terms that he or she must comply
with for the purpose of restoration of his or her registration under
section 76.

 (6) If a Disciplinary Committee suspends the registration of a
registered veterinarian under subsection (1), (3)(b) or (8), the
Disciplinary Committee may specify terms that he or she must comply
with under the suspension.

 (7) If a registered veterinarian whose practising certificate is
suspended under section 56(2)(d) contravenes the suspension or any
term specified under section 56(6) for the suspension, a Disciplinary
Committee (whether the Disciplinary Committee that made the order
of suspension or another Disciplinary Committee appointed in its
place) must cancel the registered veterinarian’s practising certificate,
and the Disciplinary Committee may specify terms that the registered
veterinarian must comply with for the purposes of reinstatement of
the registered veterinarian’s practising certificate.

 (8) If a registered veterinarian has contravened a Disciplinary
Committee’s order under subsection (9) or section 56(2)(i) requiring
the registered veterinarian to undertake and complete further
education or training, the Disciplinary Committee or another
Disciplinary Committee appointed in its place may suspend (for a
period not exceeding 12 months) or cancel the registration of the
registered veterinarian.

 (9) If a Disciplinary Committee refers a disciplinary case against a
registered veterinarian for mediation under section 56(2)(j), the
Disciplinary Committee or another Disciplinary Committee
appointed in its place may —

       (a) if the registered veterinarian refuses or fails, without
            reasonable cause, to attend or participate in the mediation,
            do one or more of the following:

               (i) issue either an advisory or a warning to the
                   registered veterinarian;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      71

              (ii) direct the registered veterinarian to undertake and
                   complete further education or training, within a
                   period, specified by the Disciplinary Committee;

             (iii) make any other order that the Disciplinary
                   Committee thinks fit;

       (b) if the mediation does not take place for any other reason,
            or the disciplinary case is not amicably resolved through
            mediation —

               (i) dismiss the disciplinary case (if no other order is
                   made under section 56(2) on the disciplinary case)
                   or make no further order on the disciplinary case (in
                   any other case); or

              (ii) make one or more of the orders mentioned in
                   paragraph (a)(i), (ii) or (iii); or

       (c) if the disciplinary case is amicably resolved through
            mediation —

               (i) discontinue the disciplinary case (if no other order is
                   made under section 56(2) on the disciplinary case)
                   or make no further order on the disciplinary case (in
                   any other case); or

              (ii) make one or more of the orders mentioned in
                   paragraph (a)(i), (ii) or (iii).

 (10) If a Disciplinary Committee imposes any condition or
restriction on, or amends or varies any condition or restriction of,
the registration of a registered veterinarian, under this Part, the
Disciplinary Committee or another Disciplinary Committee
appointed in its place may, on the application of the Council or
registered veterinarian, revoke, amend or vary the condition or
restriction.

 (11) For the purposes of subsections (2), (3) and (6) —

       (a) a reference to a suspension of registration includes an
            extension of the period of suspension of registration under
            subsection (3)(b); and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
72  NO. 11 OF 2026

       (b) a reference to a period of suspension of registration
            includes an extended period of suspension of registration
            under subsection (3)(b).

Right of hearing before Disciplinary Committee

 58.—(1) A Disciplinary Committee must give a registered
veterinarian an opportunity to be heard either personally or by
counsel during a formal inquiry into a disciplinary case against the
registered veterinarian.

 (2) A Disciplinary Committee must also, before making any further
order under section 57 (except an order made under that section
during the formal inquiry mentioned in subsection (1)), give the
registered veterinarian an opportunity to make representations.

 (3) The representations mentioned in subsection (2) may be made in
writing or, if the Disciplinary Committee allows, in person.

Service of notice of order

 59. If a Disciplinary Committee makes an order under section 56 or
57 in a disciplinary case against a registered veterinarian, the
Registrar must, as soon as practicable, give written notice of the
order to the registered veterinarian, the complainant and the Council
(if the Council is not the complainant).

When order by Disciplinary Committee takes effect

 60.—(1) Subject to sections 57(4) and 62(4), an order made by a
Disciplinary Committee for the suspension or cancellation of the
registration of a registered veterinarian under section 56(2)(a) or (b)
or 57(1), (3)(a) or (8) takes effect on the 31st day after the order is
made.

 (2) If a Disciplinary Committee orders under section 57(4) that an
order mentioned in subsection (1) for the suspension or cancellation
of the registration of a registered veterinarian (called in this
subsection the subject order) takes effect immediately, the subject
order takes effect —

       (a) if the subject order is made during the formal inquiry on
            the disciplinary case and the registered veterinarian was

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      73

            present or represented during the formal inquiry — on the
            date the order is made; or

       (b) in any other case — on the date of service of the notice on
            the registered veterinarian under section 59.

 (3) Subject to section 62(4), an order of a Disciplinary Committee,
other than an order mentioned in subsection (1), takes effect on the
date the order is made.

Effect of order of suspension

 61. To avoid doubt, sections 40 to 75 continue to apply to a
registered veterinarian whose registration is suspended.

Appeal against Disciplinary Committee’s decision or order

 62.—(1) If a registered veterinarian, a complainant or the Council
(if the Council is not the complainant) is dissatisfied with a decision
of or an order by a Disciplinary Committee made under section 56(2),
(4) or (7) or 57 (called in this section the decision of the Disciplinary
Committee), the registered veterinarian, complainant or Council
may, within 30 days after service of the notice of the decision of the
Disciplinary Committee on the registered veterinarian, complainant
or Council (as the case may be), appeal to the General Division of the
High Court against the decision of the Disciplinary Committee.

 (2) An appeal under this section is to be heard by the General
Division of the High Court and there is no appeal from the decision of
the General Division of the High Court.

 (3) In any appeal to the General Division of the High Court against
a decision of a Disciplinary Committee, the General Division of the
High Court is to accept as final and conclusive any finding of the
Disciplinary Committee relating to any issue of professional ethics or
standards of professional conduct unless the finding is in the opinion
of the General Division of the High Court unsafe, unreasonable or
contrary to the evidence.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), if a registered veterinarian appeals to
the General Division of the High Court against an order made under
section 56(2) or 57 (called in this section the relevant order), the
relevant order is stayed until —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
74  NO. 11 OF 2026

       (a) the relevant order is confirmed by the General Division of
            the High Court;

       (b) the appeal is dismissed by the General Division of the High
            Court; or

       (c) the appeal is withdrawn.

 (5) Subsection (4) does not apply to a relevant order of a
Disciplinary Committee if, at the time the relevant order is made —

       (a) in the case where the relevant order is made under
            section 56(2)(a) or (b) or 57(1), (3)(a) or (8) — the
            Disciplinary Committee orders under section 57(4) that
            the relevant order takes effect immediately; or

       (b) in any other case — the Disciplinary Committee orders
            that the relevant order has effect despite any appeal under
            this section.

 (6) A Disciplinary Committee must not make an order under
subsection (5)(b) unless the Disciplinary Committee is satisfied that
the order is —

       (a) necessary for the protection of members of the public or is
            otherwise in the public interest;

       (b) in the interests of animal health or welfare; or

       (c) in the interests of the registered veterinarian.

                Division 6 — Interim Orders Committees

Appointment of Interim Orders Committee

 63.—(1) The Registrar, or a Complaints Assessment Committee or
Disciplinary Committee, may recommend a disciplinary case to the
Council for referral to an Interim Orders Committee.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the Council may, after a
recommendation is received under subsection (1) or on its own
motion, and at any time after a disciplinary case is brought against a
registered veterinarian under section 40(1) or 41(3), refer the
disciplinary case to an Interim Orders Committee to determine
whether an order should be made under section 66(2).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      75

 (3) If the applicable period mentioned in section 42(1) or (2) has
expired for a disciplinary case, the Council must not refer the
disciplinary case to an Interim Orders Committee unless the
appointed member mentioned in section 43 has assessed under that
section that it is in the public interest to refer the disciplinary case to
the Registrar.

 (4) The Registrar must, as soon as practicable, give written notice
to the registered veterinarian and the complainant (if the
complainant is not the Council) of the Council’s decision under
subsection (2).

 (5) The Council may appoint an Interim Orders Committee
comprising 3 or more members from among the members of the
Council and members of the Complaints Panel, of whom —

       (a) at least 2 members must be members of the Council; and

       (b) subject to subsection (6), at least one member must be a
            member of the Complaints Panel and a registered
            veterinarian with at least 8 years’ experience as a
            veterinarian.

 (6) If, in the Council’s opinion, it is inexpedient, difficult or
impracticable to appoint a registered veterinarian mentioned in
subsection (5)(b), the Council may appoint to the Interim Orders
Committee any other registered veterinarian from among the
members of the Complaints Panel.

 (7) The Council must appoint as the chairperson of the Interim
Orders Committee a member of the Interim Orders Committee who is
a member of the Council.

 (8) The following members of the Council or Complaints Panel
must not be a member of an Interim Orders Committee for a
disciplinary case:

       (a) the Registrar;

       (b) if the disciplinary case is brought after the expiry of the
            applicable period mentioned in section 42(1) or (2) — the
            appointed member mentioned in section 43 for the
            disciplinary case;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
76  NO. 11 OF 2026

       (c) any member of the Complaints Panel who is assisting or
            assisted the Registrar in reviewing the disciplinary case
            under section 44(2)(a);

       (d) if a Complaints Assessment Committee or Disciplinary
            Committee has been appointed for the disciplinary case
            under this Part — any member of that Committee;

       (e) if the Council is the complainant in the disciplinary case —
            any member of the Council who participated in or
            influenced the decision to bring the disciplinary case
            under section 41(3);

        (f) if the Council makes a referral, takes an action or gives a
            direction mentioned in section 75(1) for the continuation of
            a disciplinary case despite the withdrawal of the
            disciplinary case — any member of the Council who
            participated in or influenced the Council’s decision to
            make the referral, take the action or give the direction;

       (g) an investigator appointed to investigate the disciplinary
            case.

 (9) To avoid doubt, a member of the Council (not being a member
mentioned in subsection (8)) who participated in or influenced any
other decision of the Council on a disciplinary case under this Part is
not, by reason only of such participation or influence, disqualified
from being a member of an Interim Orders Committee for the
disciplinary case.

 (10) An Interim Orders Committee may be appointed in connection
with one or more disciplinary cases or for a fixed period of time, as
the Council thinks fit.

Powers and procedures of Interim Orders Committee

 64.—(1) For the purposes of an inquiry into a disciplinary case or a
review of an interim order, an Interim Orders Committee may require
any person —

       (a) to attend at a specified time and place and give evidence
            before the Interim Orders Committee; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      77

       (b) to produce all books, documents and papers in the custody,
            or under the control, of the person which may be related to
            or be connected with the subject matter of the inquiry or
            review.

 (2) Any person who, without lawful excuse —

       (a) refuses or fails to comply with any requirement of the
            Interim Orders Committee under subsection (1); or

       (b) refuses to answer any question put to the person by a
            member of the Interim Orders Committee,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $50 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) Any person who —

       (a) knowingly gives a false answer to any question put to the
            person by a member of the Interim Orders Committee; or

       (b) knowingly gives any document, information or material to
            the Interim Orders Committee that is false or misleading,
            or that omits any matter or thing without which the
            document, information or material is misleading,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $50 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

 (4) The Interim Orders Committee —

       (a) is not bound to act in any formal manner and is not bound
            by the provisions of the Evidence Act 1893 or by any other
            written law relating to evidence, but may inform itself on
            any matter in any manner that it thinks fit;

       (b) may administer an oath or affirmation to any person giving
            evidence before it; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
78  NO. 11 OF 2026

       (c) may, subject to any regulations made under section 87,
            regulate its own procedure for the inquiry or review.

 (5) Any party to the inquiry or review before the Interim Orders
Committee may take out a subpoena to testify or to produce any
document, and the subpoena must be served and may be enforced as if
it were an order to attend court or an order to produce any document
issued in connection with a civil action in the General Division of the
High Court.

 (6) Any person giving evidence in the inquiry or review before the
Interim Orders Committee is legally bound to tell the truth.

 (7) Any person giving evidence in the inquiry or review before the
Interim Orders Committee has the same privileges and immunities in
relation to the inquiry or review as if it were a proceeding in a court of
law.

 (8) For the purposes of the inquiry or review, the Interim Orders
Committee may direct an investigator to investigate the disciplinary
case.

Appointment of experts and legal counsel for inquiry or review
before Interim Orders Committee

 65.—(1) For the purposes of an inquiry into a disciplinary case or a
review of an interim order by an Interim Orders Committee, the
Council may appoint one or more of the following:

       (a) an independent expert;

       (b) an advocate and solicitor to prosecute the disciplinary
            case, or to advise the Interim Orders Committee on any
            legal matter relating to the inquiry or review.

 (2) Before appointing any independent expert under
subsection (1)(a), the Council must give the registered veterinarian
concerned an opportunity to make representations on the proposed
appointment.

 (3) The representations mentioned in subsection (2) may be made in
writing or, if the Council allows, in person.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      79

 (4) The Council may, instead of or in addition to appointing an
independent expert under subsection (1)(a), allow the registered
veterinarian concerned to appoint an independent expert at the
registered veterinarian’s own expense.

 (5) If an independent expert or an advocate and solicitor is
appointed under subsection (1), the Council may pay him or her, as
part of the expenses of the Council, any remuneration that the
Council may determine.

 (6) If an independent expert or an advocate and solicitor appointed
under subsection (1) is an employee, any remuneration payable to the
independent expert or advocate and solicitor under subsection (5)
may be paid to his or her employer.

Interim orders

 66.—(1) An Interim Orders Committee must inquire into and decide
on a disciplinary case against a registered veterinarian as soon as
practicable after the disciplinary case is referred to it.

 (2) Subject to subsection (4), if, after due inquiry into the
disciplinary case, the Interim Orders Committee is satisfied that —

       (a) it is necessary for the protection of members of the public
            or is otherwise in the public interest;

       (b) it is in the interests of animal health or welfare; or

       (c) it is in the interests of the registered veterinarian,

to suspend, or impose any condition or restriction on, the registered
veterinarian’s registration, the Interim Orders Committee may —

       (d) make an interim suspension order providing that the
            registration is suspended for a period not exceeding
            18 months as specified in the order; or

       (e) make an interim restriction order providing that the
            registration is conditional on his or her compliance,
            during any period not exceeding 18 months as specified
            in the order, with any condition or restriction specified in
            the order that the Interim Orders Committee thinks fit to
            impose.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
80  NO. 11 OF 2026

 (3) The Registrar must, as soon as practicable, give written notice
to the registered veterinarian and the complainant of the order made
under subsection (2), and the order takes effect —

       (a) if the registered veterinarian was present or represented at
            the proceedings of the Interim Orders Committee — on the
            date the order is made; or

       (b) in any other case — on the date of service of the notice on
            the registered veterinarian.

 (4) An Interim Orders Committee must not make an order under
subsection (2) after the relevant proceedings for the disciplinary case
are concluded (as specified in section 71(2)).

 (5) If the Interim Orders Committee suspends the registration of the
registered veterinarian under subsection (2)(d), the Interim Orders
Committee may specify terms that the registered veterinarian must
comply with under the suspension.

Review of interim orders

 67.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), if an Interim Orders Committee
makes an order under section 66(2), or makes a replacement order
under section 68(3)(c) or (d), the Interim Orders Committee or
another Interim Orders Committee appointed in its place —

       (a) must review the order within the period of 6 months
            beginning on the date on which the order is made;

       (b) must, for so long as the order continues in force, further
            review the order before the end of the period of 3 months
            beginning on the date of the decision on the immediately
            preceding review under this section; and

       (c) may review the order at any time if new evidence relevant
            to the order becomes available after the making of the
            order.

 (2) If the General Division of the High Court extends the period of
the order under section 70(2) or an Interim Orders Committee makes
a replacement order under section 68(3)(c) or (d), the first review
after the extension or making of the replacement order must take
place —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      81

       (a) if the order has not been reviewed under subsection (1)
            before the extension or the making of the replacement
            order — within the period of 6 months beginning on the
            date on which the General Division of the High Court
            orders the extension or on which the replacement order is
            made, as the case may be; or

       (b) in any other case — within the period of 3 months
            beginning on the date on which the General Division of the
            High Court orders the extension or on which the
            replacement order is made, as the case may be.

Interim Orders Committee may revoke, vary or replace interim
order, etc.

 68.—(1) This section applies if an interim order is made in a
disciplinary case against a registered veterinarian under
section 66(2) or this section.

 (2) The Council, the Registrar, a Complaints Assessment
Committee or a Disciplinary Committee may recommend to an
Interim Orders Committee to make any order under subsection (3)
against the registered veterinarian.

 (3) After a review of an interim order under section 67 or after
receiving a recommendation under subsection (2), the Interim Orders
Committee that made, or reviewed, the interim order, or another
Interim Orders Committee appointed in its place, may do any of the
following:

       (a) revoke the order;

       (b) in the case of an interim restriction order — amend, vary
            or revoke any condition or restriction imposed by the order
            or impose any new or additional condition or restriction;

       (c) in the case of an interim restriction order — replace the
            interim restriction order with an interim suspension order
            (effective for the remainder of the period of the replaced
            interim restriction order), if satisfied that —

               (i) it is necessary for the protection of members of the
                   public or is otherwise in the public interest, is in the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
82  NO. 11 OF 2026

                   interests of animal health or welfare or is in the
                   interests of the registered veterinarian; or

              (ii) the registered veterinarian has not complied with
                   any condition or restriction imposed by the interim
                   restriction order;

       (d) in the case of an interim suspension order — replace the
            interim suspension order with an interim restriction order
            (effective for the remainder of the period of the replaced
            interim suspension order), if satisfied that all or any of
            following would be adequately served by an interim
            restriction order:

               (i) the protection of members of the public;

              (ii) the public interest;

             (iii) the interests of animal health or welfare;

             (iv) the interests of the registered veterinarian.

 (4) The Registrar must, as soon as practicable, give written notice
to the registered veterinarian and the complainant of the decision
under subsection (3), and the decision takes effect —

       (a) if the registered veterinarian was present or represented at
            the proceedings of the Interim Orders Committee — on the
            date the decision is made; or

       (b) in any other case — on the date of service of the notice on
            the registered veterinarian.

 (5) If a registered veterinarian whose registration is suspended
under an interim suspension order has contravened the interim
suspension order or any term specified for the interim suspension
order —

       (a) the Interim Orders Committee that made, or reviewed, the
            interim suspension order, or another Interim Orders
            Committee appointed in its place, must extend the
            interim suspension order until the date on which the
            relevant proceedings for the disciplinary case are
            concluded (as specified in section 71(2)); and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      83

       (b) the Registrar must, as soon as practicable, give written
            notice to the registered veterinarian of the extension.

Right of hearing before Interim Orders Committee

 69.—(1) An interim order under section 66(2) must not be made by
an Interim Orders Committee against any registered veterinarian
unless he or she has been given an opportunity to be heard either
personally or by counsel as to whether such an order should be made
in his or her case.

 (2) An Interim Orders Committee must also, before making any
further order under section 68, give the registered veterinarian
concerned an opportunity to make representations.

 (3) The representations mentioned in subsection (2) may be made in
writing or, if the Interim Orders Committee allows, in person.

Application to General Division of High Court

 70.—(1) The Council may apply to the General Division of the High
Court for an extension of the period for which an interim order made
under section 66(2) or 68(3)(c) or (d) has effect, and may apply again
for one or more further extensions.

 (2) On an application under subsection (1), the General Division of
the High Court may grant an extension (or a further extension) for a
period not exceeding 12 months.

 (3) The General Division of the High Court may, on an application
by the registered veterinarian concerned —

       (a) in the case of an interim suspension order — revoke the
            order;

       (b) in the case of an interim restriction order — revoke the
            order or amend, vary or revoke any condition or restriction
            imposed by the order; or

       (c) in either case — substitute for the period specified in the
            order (or in the order extending it) some other period
            which could have been specified in the order when it was
            made, or in the order extending it.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
84  NO. 11 OF 2026

 (4) An application under subsection (3) must be made within
14 days after service of the notice on the registered veterinarian
concerned of the interim order under section 66(3) or 68(4), as the
case may be.

 (5) An application under subsection (3) must be heard otherwise
than in open court.

 (6) The General Division of the High Court may, on an application
by the registered veterinarian, order that any information contained
in any document relating to an application under subsection (3) must
not be published or disclosed, unless —

       (a) the registered veterinarian consents to the publication or
            disclosure; or

       (b) the General Division of the High Court is satisfied that the
            information if published or disclosed does not disclose any
            confidential information.

Duration of interim orders

 71.—(1) An interim order made in a disciplinary case is in force
until the earliest of the following:

       (a) the end of the period specified —

               (i) in the order;

              (ii) if the period is extended under section 68(5) or 70(2),
                   in the order extending it; or

             (iii) if the period is substituted under section 70(3)(c), in
                   the order making that substitution;

       (b) the date on which the relevant proceedings for the
            disciplinary case are concluded;

       (c) the date the order is revoked.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(b) and sections 66(4) and
68(5)(a), the relevant proceedings for a disciplinary case are
concluded when any one of the following occurs:

       (a) the Council takes any action mentioned in section 45(a) or
            (c)(ii) in the disciplinary case;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      85

(b) the Council, under section 51(1)(a) or (b), dismisses the
     disciplinary case or takes one or more actions mentioned
     in section 50(c)(i), (ii) or (iv) in the disciplinary case
     and —

       (i) no appeal is made to the Minister under
            section 51(6) or (7) against any of those actions
            within the period specified in that provision; or

      (ii) if such an appeal is made — the appeal is either
            withdrawn or the Minister makes an order under
            section 51(8)(a), (c) or (d) on the appeal;

(c) if the disciplinary case is referred, under section 51, to
     mediation —

       (i) the Council, under section 52(3), (5) or (7), decides
            to dismiss or discontinue, or take no further action
            on the disciplinary case and —

             (A) no appeal is made to the Minister under
                   section 52(10) against the decision within the
                   period specified in that provision; or

             (B) if such an appeal is made — the appeal is
                   either withdrawn or the Minister makes an
                   order under section 52(11)(a), (c) or (d) on the
                   appeal; or

      (ii) the Council, under section 52(4), (5) or (7) takes one
            or more actions mentioned in section 50(c)(i), (ii) or
            (iv) and —

             (A) no appeal is made to the Minister under
                   section 52(9) or (10) against any of those
                   actions within the period specified in that
                   provision; or

             (B) if such an appeal is made — the appeal is
                   either withdrawn or the Minister makes an
                   order under section 52(11)(a), (c) or (d) on the
                   appeal;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
86  NO. 11 OF 2026

       (d) if the disciplinary case is referred to a Disciplinary
            Committee for a formal inquiry, the Disciplinary
            Committee —

               (i) makes any order under section 56(2) which takes
                   effect; or

              (ii) dismisses the disciplinary case under section 56(4);

       (e) if the complainant withdraws the disciplinary case and the
            Council does not make a referral, take an action or give a
            direction mentioned in section 75(1) within the period
            mentioned in that section.

Effect of interim suspension order

 72. To avoid doubt, sections 40 to 75 continue to apply to a
registered veterinarian whose registration is suspended under an
interim suspension order.

                        Division 7 — Investigations

Conduct of investigation by investigator

 73.—(1) If —

       (a) a Complaints Assessment Committee, a Disciplinary
            Committee or an Interim Orders Committee (called in
            this Division the relevant committee) directs an
            investigation under section 48(5), 54(11) or 64(8), as the
            case may be; and

       (b) the relevant committee is of the opinion that the registered
            veterinarian should answer any allegation made against
            him or her,

then —

       (c) the Registrar must, as soon as practicable, give the
            registered veterinarian written notice of the
            investigation; and

       (d) the relevant committee must invite the registered
            veterinarian to give to the investigator, within the period
            specified in the notice, any written explanation he or she

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      87

            may wish to offer, containing all the relevant information
            and accompanied by every relevant document that is in the
            possession of the registered veterinarian.

 (2) A notice under subsection (1) must include copies of —

       (a) the complaint or information (as the case may be) to which
            the disciplinary case relates; and

       (b) any statutory declaration (if any) made in support of the
            disciplinary case.

 (3) The registered veterinarian may, at any time before the end of
the period specified for the submission of the written explanation,
make not more than one application to the relevant committee for an
extension of the period, and any extension given by the relevant
committee must not exceed 21 days.

 (4) For the purposes of an investigation directed under
section 48(5), 54(11) or 64(8), an investigator may exercise one or
more of the powers under section 79 in carrying out the investigator’s
functions and duties.

Investigation report and information obtained in course of
investigation

 74.—(1) After completing an investigation into a disciplinary case
against a registered veterinarian, the investigator must submit a
report on the findings of the investigation to the relevant committee.

 (2) The report mentioned in subsection (1) must include any written
explanation from the registered veterinarian mentioned in
section 73(1)(d).

 (3) If, in the course of the investigation, the investigator receives
any information relating to the registered veterinarian that is not
related to the subject matter of the investigation but may give rise to
proceedings under this Part, the investigator must make a report to
the Council.

 (4) If, in the course of the investigation, an investigator receives any
information relating to another registered veterinarian which may
give rise to proceedings under this Part, the investigator must make a
report to the Council.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
88  NO. 11 OF 2026

 (5) Subject to subsections (1), (3) and (4), a person must not
disclose the contents of any investigation report or any information
contained in any document which was obtained in the course of any
investigation commenced under this Part to any other person,
including the registered veterinarian concerned, unless —

       (a) the relevant committee to which the investigation report is
            submitted considers that there are compelling reasons to
            do so; or

       (b) the disclosure is required for the purpose of administering
            or enforcing this Act, the Animals and Birds Act 1965 or
            the Infectious Diseases Act 1976.

             Division 8 — Withdrawal of disciplinary case

Withdrawal of disciplinary case

 75.—(1) If a complainant (other than the Council) withdraws a
disciplinary case, the Council may within 3 months after the date of
the withdrawal, despite the withdrawal —

       (a) if the disciplinary case is withdrawn before the Council
            refers it under section 41(1) to the Registrar — subject to
            sections 42 and 43, refer the disciplinary case under
            section 41(3) (as if the Council were the complainant) to
            the Registrar for review;

       (b) if the disciplinary case is withdrawn before the Registrar
            reports his or her findings and makes his or her
            recommendations to the Council under section 45 —
            direct the Registrar to continue the review of the
            disciplinary case under section 44 and report the
            findings and make the recommendations to the Council
            under section 45;

       (c) if the disciplinary case is withdrawn before the Council
            refers it to a Complaints Assessment Committee or
            Disciplinary Committee under section 46(1) — refer the
            disciplinary case to a Complaints Assessment Committee
            or Disciplinary Committee for an inquiry or a formal
            inquiry (respectively) under that section;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      89

       (d) if the disciplinary case is withdrawn before a Complaints
            Assessment Committee reports its findings and makes its
            recommendations to the Council under section 50 — direct
            the Complaints Assessment Committee to continue the
            inquiry into the disciplinary case, and report its findings
            and make its recommendations to the Council under that
            section;

       (e) if the disciplinary case is withdrawn before the Council
            takes any action under section 51(1) or (4) or 52(4), (5) or
            (7) in the disciplinary case — take action under that
            provision in the disciplinary case; or

        (f) if the disciplinary case is withdrawn before a Disciplinary
            Committee makes an order under section 56(2) in the
            disciplinary case — direct the Disciplinary Committee to
            continue the formal inquiry into the disciplinary case.

 (2) If the Council refers a disciplinary case, or gives a direction for
the disciplinary case, under subsection (1) to the Registrar, a
Complaints Assessment Committee or a Disciplinary Committee, the
Registrar, Complaints Assessment Committee or Disciplinary
Committee (as the case may be) must comply with the referral or
direction, and the disciplinary case must be continued under this Act,
as if the disciplinary case had been brought by the Council.

 (3) If a complainant (not being the Council) withdraws a
disciplinary case after the disciplinary case is referred to an
Interim Orders Committee, and the Council makes a referral, takes
an action or gives a direction under subsection (1) for the disciplinary
case, the Interim Orders Committee must continue its inquiry or
review in respect of the disciplinary case as if the disciplinary case
had been brought by the Council.

 (4) The following members of the Council must not participate in or
influence the decision of the Council under subsection (1) for a
disciplinary case:

       (a) the Registrar;

       (b) if the disciplinary case is brought after the expiry of the
            applicable period mentioned in section 42(1) or (2) — the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
90  NO. 11 OF 2026

            appointed member mentioned in section 43 for the
            disciplinary case;

       (c) if the disciplinary case has been referred to a Disciplinary
            Committee before it is withdrawn by the complainant —
            a member of the Disciplinary Committee;

       (d) if the disciplinary case has been referred to an Interim
            Orders Committee before it is withdrawn by the
            complainant — a member of the Interim Orders
            Committee;

       (e) an investigator appointed to investigate the disciplinary
            case.

 (5) To avoid doubt, a member of the Council (not being a member
mentioned in subsection (4)) who participated in or influenced any
other decision of the Council on the disciplinary case under this Part
is not, by reason only of such participation or influence, disqualified
from participating in or influencing the Council’s decision under
subsection (1).

                        Division 9 — Miscellaneous

Restoration of registration cancelled under this Part

 76.—(1) This section applies in relation to an individual whose
registration is cancelled —

       (a) under section 38(2)(a) or (c); or

       (b) pursuant to an order made by a Disciplinary Committee
            under section 56(2)(a) or 57(1), (3)(a) or (8).

 (2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), the Council may, on its own
motion or on an application for restoration by the individual
mentioned in subsection (1) —

       (a) if action has been taken in respect of the individual’s
            registration under section 38(2)(c) — cancel the
            individual’s registration as a veterinarian with restricted
            registration and restore the individual’s registration as a
            veterinarian with full registration; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      91

       (b) in any other case — restore the individual’s registration.

 (3) If section 38(4) applies to the individual and the individual has
not complied with any of the terms specified under that provision, the
Council must not restore the individual’s registration under
subsection (2).

 (4) In the case mentioned in subsection (1)(b), the Council must not
restore the individual’s registration under subsection (2) if —

       (a) the individual has not complied with the terms (if any) of
            any order made against him or her by the Disciplinary
            Committee under section 56(5) or 57(5);

       (b) the application for restoration is made before the end of
            3 years after the date of the cancellation; or

       (c) the application for restoration is made more than once in
            any period of 12 months.

Meetings and proceedings of committees, etc.

 77.—(1) This section applies to every Complaints Assessment
Committee, Disciplinary Committee or Interim Orders Committee
(each called in this section a relevant committee) appointed under
this Act.

 (2) The Council may at any time —

       (a) revoke the appointment of a relevant committee; or

       (b) remove any member of a relevant committee.

 (3) The Council must, as soon as practicable —

       (a) fill any vacancy in a relevant committee; and

       (b) if the appointment of a relevant committee is revoked under
            subsection (2)(a) or a relevant committee is for any reason
            unable to continue with an inquiry, a formal inquiry or a
            review (as the case may be), appoint another relevant
            committee in its place to continue with the inquiry, formal
            inquiry or review.

 (4) No act done by or under the authority of a relevant committee is
invalid because of any defect that is subsequently discovered in the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
92  NO. 11 OF 2026

appointment or qualifications of the chairperson, any member or the
observer (if applicable) of the relevant committee.

 (5) The production of any written instrument purporting to be
signed by the Council and making any appointment or revocation of a
relevant committee is evidence that the appointment or revocation
has been duly made.

 (6) The chairperson of a relevant committee may at any time
summon a meeting of the relevant committee.

 (7) A relevant committee may meet for the purposes of its inquiry,
formal inquiry or review (as the case may be), and may adjourn and
otherwise regulate the conduct of its inquiry, formal inquiry or review
as its members think fit.

 (8) All the members of a relevant committee must be present to
constitute a quorum for a meeting of the relevant committee.

 (9) Despite subsection (8), any resolution or decision in writing
signed by all the members of a relevant committee is as valid and
effectual as if it had been made or reached at a meeting of the relevant
committee where all its members were present.

 (10) All the members of a relevant committee present at any
meeting of the relevant committee must vote on any question arising
at the meeting, and that question is to be determined by a majority of
votes and, in the case of an equality of votes, the chairperson has a
casting vote.

 (11) However, if any member of a relevant committee —

       (a) is removed under subsection (2)(b); or

       (b) is unable through death, illness or any other cause to
            continue with the inquiry, formal inquiry or review (as the
            case may be),

the relevant committee must not make any decision on any question
arising at a meeting until that vacancy is filled.

 (12) A member of a relevant committee who ceases to be a member
of the Complaints Panel or Council (as the case may be) at the end of
his or her term of office continues as a member of the relevant
committee until the completion of the work by the relevant committee,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      93

as if he or she were still a member of the Complaints Panel or Council
(as the case may be).

 (13) The Minister may determine the remuneration (if any) to be
paid to each member or observer of a relevant committee.

 (14) If a member or an observer of a relevant committee is an
employee, any remuneration payable to the member or observer
under subsection (13) may be paid to his or her employer.

Officer or employee of National Parks Board not disqualified
from being committee member or observer

 78.—(1) Any member of the Council who is an officer or employee
of the National Parks Board is not disqualified from being a member
of any Disciplinary Committee or Interim Orders Committee by
reason only that he or she is such an officer or is so employed, as the
case may be.

 (2) Any member of the Complaints Panel who is an officer or
employee of the National Parks Board is not disqualified from being a
member of any Complaints Assessment Committee, Disciplinary
Committee or Interim Orders Committee, or an observer of any
Disciplinary Committee, by reason only that he or she is such an
officer or is so employed, as the case may be.

                                    PART 6

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Investigators

 79.—(1) Subject to subsection (9), the Council may, in writing,
appoint a member of the Council, a public officer, an officer or
employee of a public authority, a duly qualified veterinarian or an
auxiliary police officer as an investigator, subject to any conditions
and limitations that the Council may specify —

       (a) to investigate the commission of an offence under this Act;
            or

       (b) to carry out an investigation under Part 5.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
94  NO. 11 OF 2026

 (2) An investigator may, for the purposes of subsection (1)(a)
or (b) —

       (a) without warrant enter, inspect, and search during regular
            business hours any premises or conveyance used or
            proposed to be used, or in respect of which there is
            reasonable cause to believe are being used, by any person
            for the purpose of carrying out, or purporting to carry out,
            the practice of veterinary medicine;

       (b) inspect or examine any animal (whether living or dead),
            object or thing or observe any activity conducted in or on
            the premises or conveyance;

       (c) take a sample —

               (i) from any animal (whether living or dead) in or on the
                   premises or conveyance, with the consent of the
                   owner of the animal; or

              (ii) of any thing that is or has been in contact with, or in
                   the vicinity of, the animal;

       (d) make a still or moving image or recording of the premises
            or conveyance and any animal (whether living or dead),
            object or thing in or on the premises or conveyance;

       (e) inspect any document in or on the premises or conveyance
            and take any extract from, or make any copy of, the
            document;

        (f) take into or onto the premises or conveyance any
            equipment and material that the investigator requires for
            the purpose of exercising any power in relation to the
            premises or conveyance;

       (g) operate any electronic equipment in or on the premises or
            conveyance;

       (h) take into custody —

               (i) any animal (whether living or dead), with the consent
                   of the owner of the animal, which the investigator
                   reasonably believes to be the subject matter of, or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      95

                   connected with, an investigation mentioned in
                   subsection (1)(a) or (b); or

              (ii) any object or thing in the premises or conveyance
                   which the investigator reasonably believes to be the
                   subject matter of, or connected with, an investigation
                   mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b); and

        (i) in respect of a dead animal taken into custody under
            paragraph (h)(i) — conduct, with the consent of the owner
            of the animal, a post‑mortem examination on the body of
            the dead animal for the purposes of —

               (i) determining the cause of the death of that animal; or

              (ii) investigating the extent of any disease suffered by
                   that animal prior to its death.

 (3) An investigator may, for the purposes of subsection (1)(a)
or (b) —

       (a) examine orally any person apparently acquainted with any
            facts and circumstances relevant to the matter under
            investigation;

       (b) require any person apparently acquainted with any facts
            and circumstances relevant to the matter under
            investigation to attend at the time and place specified in
            a written notice served on the person;

       (c) require any person whom the investigator has reason to
            believe has any document or information relevant to the
            matter under investigation to produce the document or
            provide the information, within a reasonable period
            specified by the investigator; and

       (d) require any person to present or produce any object or
            thing, which may be in the person’s custody or possession
            and which may be related to or connected with the subject
            matter of the investigation, for inspection or examination
            by the investigator.

 (4) The power under subsection (2)(g) to operate any electronic
equipment in or on any premises or conveyance includes the power —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
96  NO. 11 OF 2026

       (a) to use a disk, tape or other storage device that is in or on
            the premises or conveyance and can be used with the
            equipment or in association with the equipment;

       (b) to operate the electronic equipment to put the relevant data
            in documentary form and remove any document so
            produced from the premises or conveyance; and

       (c) to operate the electronic equipment to transfer the relevant
            data to a disk, tape or other storage device that —

               (i) is brought to the premises or conveyance for the
                   exercise of the power; or

              (ii) is in or on the premises or conveyance and the use of
                   which for that purpose has been agreed in writing by
                   the occupier of the premises or conveyance,

       (c) and to remove the disk, tape or other storage device from
            those premises or that conveyance.

 (5) The power to require a person to produce a document or provide
information under subsection (3)(c) includes the power —

       (a) to require that person, or any person who is or was an
            officer or employee of that person, to provide an
            explanation of the document or information;

       (b) if the document is not produced or information is not
            provided, to require that person to state, to the best of the
            person’s knowledge and belief, where it is; and

       (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            investigator in legible form.

 (6) A person examined under this section must state truly the facts
and circumstances relevant to the matter under investigation with
which the person is acquainted, except only that the person need not
say anything that might expose the person to a criminal charge,
penalty or forfeiture.

 (7) A statement made by a person examined under this section
must —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      97

       (a) be reduced to writing;

       (b) be read over to the person;

       (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
            a language that the person understands; and

       (d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the person.

 (8) No compensation is payable in respect of any animal or thing
which is damaged or otherwise destroyed by virtue of any exercise of
powers under subsection (2)(c), unless the damage or destruction is
directly attributable to the negligence or default of the investigator.

 (9) The following individuals must not be appointed as an
investigator for a disciplinary case against a registered veterinarian:

       (a) the Registrar;

       (b) if the disciplinary case is brought after the expiry of the
            applicable period mentioned in section 42(1) or (2) — the
            appointed member mentioned in section 43 for the
            disciplinary case;

       (c) any member of the Complaints Panel who assisted the
            Registrar in reviewing the disciplinary case under
            section 44(2)(a);

       (d) if a Complaints Assessment Committee, a Disciplinary
            Committee or an Interim Orders Committee has conducted
            or is conducting an inquiry, a formal inquiry or a review
            (as the case may be) in respect of the disciplinary case
            under Part 5 — any member of that Committee;

       (e) any member of the Council who participated in or
            influenced the Council’s decision —

               (i) to bring, as the complainant, the disciplinary case
                   under section 41(3);

              (ii) to make a referral, take an action or give a direction
                   mentioned in section 75(1) for the continuation of a
                   disciplinary case despite the withdrawal of the
                   disciplinary case; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
98  NO. 11 OF 2026

             (iii) taken under section 46(1), 51(1) or (4) or 52(4), (5)
                   or (7) on the disciplinary case.

 (10) An investigator who has been appointed to investigate a
disciplinary case against a registered veterinarian must not
subsequently take part in any deliberation of the Council in respect
of the same disciplinary case under any provision of Part 5.

 (11) A person who —

       (a) wilfully obstructs or delays an investigator in the exercise
            of any power under subsection (2) or (3);

       (b) fails to comply with any requisition or order of an
            investigator under subsection (3);

       (c) knowingly gives a false answer to any question put to the
            person by an investigator; or

       (d) knowingly gives any document, information or material to
            an investigator that is false or misleading, or that omits
            any matter or thing without which the document,
            information or material is misleading,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $50 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

 (12) In this section —

      “auxiliary police officer” means an auxiliary police officer
         appointed under the Police Force Act 2004;

      “owner” includes any person for the time being in charge of any
         animal;

      “take a sample”, for an animal, means —

              (a) to take a swab from the animal or of any part of the
                   animal;

              (b) to take a sample of any part of the animal; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      99

              (c) to take a sample of any urine, faeces, blood or other
                   article or substance from, or which has been in
                   contact with, the animal.

Assessors to Council

 80.—(1) For the purposes of advising the Council, or any
committee appointed by the Council, the Council may appoint a
legal assessor to the Council who must be an advocate and solicitor
of at least 10 years’ standing.

 (2) The legal assessor must not participate or sit in any
deliberations of the Council or its committees unless invited to do
so, and his or her participation is limited only to questions of law
arising from the proceedings.

 (3) The Council may appoint a medical assessor to assist the
Council or any committee appointed by the Council in proceedings
before any of them under this Act.

 (4) The Council may pay to a legal assessor or medical assessor, as
part of the expenses of the Council, any remuneration that the
Council may determine.

 (5) If a legal assessor or medical assessor is an employee, any
remuneration payable to the legal assessor or medical assessor under
subsection (4) may be paid to his or her employer.

 (6) In this section, a committee appointed by the Council includes a
Complaints Assessment Committee, a Disciplinary Committee and an
Interim Orders Committee.

Protection from personal liability

 81. No liability shall lie against —

       (a) the Registrar;

       (b) any member of the Council or any person authorised,
            appointed or employed to assist the Council;

       (c) any member of a Complaints Assessment Committee, a
            Disciplinary Committee, an Interim Orders Committee or
            any committee appointed under section 13; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
100  NO. 11 OF 2026

       (d) any investigator,

for anything which is done or purported to be done, or omitted to be
done, in good faith and with reasonable care in the exercise or
purported exercise of any power or the performance or purported
performance of any function under this Act.

Deemed public servants

 82.—(1) The following persons are each taken to be a public
servant for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871 in relation to his or
her performance of any function or duty under this Act:

       (a) the Registrar;

       (b) any member of the Council or any person authorised,
            appointed or employed to assist the Council;

       (c) any member of a Complaints Assessment Committee, a
            Disciplinary Committee, an Interim Orders Committee or
            any committee appointed under section 13;

       (d) any investigator.

 (2) For the purposes of sections 193 and 228 of the Penal
Code 1871, “judicial proceeding” is taken to include any
proceedings before a Complaints Assessment Committee, a
Disciplinary Committee or an Interim Orders Committee.

Composition of offences

 83.—(1) The Council may compound any offence under this Act
that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
not exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one‑half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $2,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      101

Service of documents

 84.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by or under this
Act to be served on a person may be served as described in this
section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on an individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents
            generally, or specifically for the document, or (if no
            address is so specified) the individual’s residential address
            or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;
            or

       (e) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a partnership (other than a limited liability partnership)
may be served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer, or an
            authorised representative, of the partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the partnership’s business address; or

       (c) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
            address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a body corporate (including a limited liability partnership)
or an unincorporated association may be served —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
102  NO. 11 OF 2026

       (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
            body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
            limited liability partnership’s manager;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the registered office or principal office in Singapore of
            the body corporate or unincorporated association; or

       (c) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association.

 (5) In addition, a document permitted or required by or under this
Act to be served on an individual, a partnership, a body corporate or
an unincorporated association may be served by giving an electronic
notice to the individual, partnership, body corporate or
unincorporated association (called in this section an addressee) by
the addressee’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
document is available and how the addressee may use the
addressee’s chosen means of access to access the document’s
contents.

 (6) Service of a document under this section takes effect —

       (a) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post — 2 days
            after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
            undelivered); or

       (b) if the document is sent by email — at the time that the
            email becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to
            whom it is sent.

 (7) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email or by an electronic notice at the person’s chosen means of
notification may be effected only with the person’s prior written
consent to service in that way.

 (8) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

 (9) In this section —

      “authorised representative”, in relation to a partnership (other
         than a limited liability partnership), means any person

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      103

         authorised to accept service of documents on behalf of the
         partnership;

      “business address” means —

              (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
                   last known place of business in Singapore; or

              (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
                   liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
                   last known place of business in Singapore;

      “chosen means of access”, for an addressee on whom is or is to
         be served a document permitted or required by or under this
         Act, means an electronic means that the addressee agrees
         with the person serving the document as the means by which
         the addressee may access that document’s contents;

      “chosen means of notification”, for an addressee on whom is or
         is to be served a document permitted or required by or under
         this Act, means an electronic means that the addressee
         nominates to the person serving the document as the means
         by which the addressee may be notified that such a document
         has been served on the addressee;

      “document” includes a direction, an order or a notice permitted
         or required by or under this Act to be served;

      “last email address” means the last email address given by the
         addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
         document as the email address for the service of documents
         under this Act;

      “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
         place of residence in Singapore.

Jurisdiction of courts

 85. Despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, a District Court or
a Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act
and has power to impose the full punishment for the offence.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
104  NO. 11 OF 2026

Exemption

 86. The Minister may, after consultation with the Council, by order
in the Gazette, exempt any person or class of persons from all or any
of the provisions of this Act, either generally or in a particular case
and subject to any condition that the Minister may impose.

Regulations

 87.—(1) The Council may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out
or giving effect to this Act and for the due administration of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Council may, with the
approval of the Minister, make regulations —

       (a) on matters relating to the registration of veterinarians,
            including renewals of registration for specialists;

       (b) providing for different registration requirements for
            specialists in different branches of veterinary medicine;

       (c) on matters relating to the grant and renewal of practising
            certificates, including the reinstatement of practising
            certificates cancelled under the Act;

       (d) prescribing procedures for the cancellation and
            restoration of registration;

       (e) regulating the professional practice, etiquette, conduct and
            discipline of registered veterinarians;

        (f) prescribing acts or activities which a specialist may
            perform only on satisfaction of prescribed requirements;

       (g) prescribing the powers and procedures of, and regulating
            the conduct of any proceedings before, a Complaints
            Assessment Committee, a Disciplinary Committee, an
            Interim Orders Committee or any other committee
            appointed by the Council under this Act;

       (h) prescribing the procedure for the withdrawal of any
            disciplinary case by a complainant or the Council (if the
            Council is not the complainant) under Part 5;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      105

        (i) prescribing the procedure for any appeal to the Minister;

        (j) prescribing any additional function of the Registrar;

       (k) prescribing fees for the purposes of this Act; and

        (l) generally providing for any other matter that may be
            necessary or expedient for carrying out the provisions of
            this Act or that is required or permitted to be prescribed
            under this Act.

 (3) Regulations made under this Act may make different provisions,
or prescribe different fees, for different classes of persons or different
circumstances.

 (4) Regulations made under this section may provide that any
contravention of any provision of the regulations shall be an offence
punishable with a fine not exceeding $5,000 or with imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 6 months or with both.

Consequential amendments to other Acts

 88.—(1) In the Animals and Birds Act 1965 —

       (a) in section 44(1)(b), replace “a person licensed under
            section 53” with “a duly qualified veterinarian within the
            meaning given by section 3 of the Veterinary Practice
            Act 2026”; and

       (b) delete section 53.

 (2) In the Health Products Act 2007, in section 2(1), replace the
definition of “veterinarian” with —

      “ “veterinarian” means an individual who is a duly qualified
           veterinarian within the meaning given by section 3 of the
           Veterinary Practice Act 2026;”.

 (3) In the Medicines Act 1975, in section 2(1), replace the definition
of “veterinary surgeon” with —

      “ “veterinary surgeon” means an individual who is a duly
           qualified veterinarian within the meaning given by
           section 3 of the Veterinary Practice Act 2026;”.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
106  NO. 11 OF 2026

 (4) In the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973, in section 2, after the
definition of “vessel”, insert —

      “ “veterinary surgeon” means an individual who is a duly
           qualified veterinarian within the meaning given by
           section 3 of the Veterinary Practice Act 2026;”.

 (5) In the National Parks Board Act 1996, in section 6(1), replace
paragraph (i) with —

            “(i) to regulate veterinary establishments;

            (ia) to regulate any person who, in the course of business,
                  provides a service, in relation to an animal in the
                  control or possession of the person, for any of the
                  following purposes:

                     (i) assessing, recording, maintaining or improving
                         the health, welfare, comfort or wellbeing of the
                         animal;

                    (ii) examining or attending to the animal, including
                         administering a veterinary product to the
                         animal, but excluding the performance of any
                         surgical procedure on the animal;

                   (iii) performing any cosmetic procedure (other than
                         surgery) on the animal;

            (ib) to provide administrative, financial, technical and
                  personnel support to the Veterinary Council in the
                  performance of the functions and in the exercise of the
                  powers of the Veterinary Council under the Veterinary
                  Practice Act 2026;”.

 (6) In the Poisons Act 1938, in section 2, replace the definition of
“veterinary surgeon” with —

      “ “veterinary surgeon” means an individual who is a duly
           qualified veterinarian within the meaning given by
           section 3 of the Veterinary Practice Act 2026.”.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      107

Amendment of Veterinary Practice Act 2026

 89. In the Veterinary Practice Act 2026 —

       (a) in section 4, delete subsection (5); and

       (b) in section 7(1), delete paragraph (k).

Saving and transitional provisions

 90.—(1) If immediately before the date of commencement of
section 29 (called in this subsection the appointed day) —

       (a) an individual holds a full licence issued under
            section 53(1) of the Animals and Birds Act 1965; and

       (b) the licence is not suspended or revoked under section 62 of
            that Act,

the individual is deemed, so far as not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act, to be a duly qualified veterinarian with full registration on
and after the appointed day until the earliest of the following:

       (c) the date immediately after the end of 12 months (or, if a
            longer period is prescribed under subsection (3), the
            longer period) after the appointed day;

       (d) the date on which the Council grants a practising
            certificate to the individual under section 23, after
            registering the individual as a veterinarian with full
            registration or veterinarian with restricted registration
            (as the case may be) under this Act;

       (e) the date that the individual’s application for registration is
            finally refused under section 21 or is withdrawn;

        (f) the date that the individual’s application for a practising
            certificate is finally refused under section 23 or is
            withdrawn.

 (2) If immediately before the date of commencement of section 29
(called in this subsection the appointed day) —

       (a) an individual holds a restricted licence issued under
            section 53(1) of the Animals and Birds Act 1965; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
108  NO. 11 OF 2026

       (b) the licence is not suspended or revoked under section 62 of
            that Act,

the individual is deemed, so far as not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act, to be a duly qualified veterinarian with restricted
registration on and after the appointed day until the earliest of the
following:

       (c) the date immediately after the end of 12 months (or, if a
            longer period is prescribed under subsection (3), the
            longer period) after the appointed day;

       (d) the date on which the Council grants a practising
            certificate to the individual under section 23, after
            registering the individual as a veterinarian with full
            registration or veterinarian with restricted registration
            (as the case may be) under this Act;

       (e) the date that the individual’s application for registration is
            finally refused under section 21 or is withdrawn;

        (f) the date that the individual’s application for a practising
            certificate is finally refused under section 23 or is
            withdrawn.

 (3) The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, prescribe the
longer period mentioned in subsection (1)(c) or (2)(c).

 (4) In this section —

      “full licence” means a licence, issued to an individual under
         section 53(1) of the Animals and Birds Act 1965, that is not a
         restricted licence;

      “restricted licence” means a licence, issued to an individual
         under section 53(1) of the Animals and Birds Act 1965, that
         authorises the individual to treat, vaccinate or inoculate
         animals only —

              (a) at a place of practice specified in the licence; and

              (b) under the supervision of another individual who
                   holds a licence issued under section 53(1) of the
                   Animals and Birds Act 1965.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
VETERINARY PRACTICE                                      109

 (5) A reference in subsection (1)(e) or (f) or (2)(e) or (f) to the date
of final refusal of an application under section 21 or 23 is a reference
to —

       (a) if an appeal is made to the Minister under section 21(8) or
            23(11) (as the case may be) against the Council’s refusal of
            the application — the date of the Minister’s dismissal of the
            appeal; or

       (b) in any other case — the date of the Council’s refusal of the
            application under section 21(6) or 23(7), as the case may
            be.

 (6) For a period of 2 years after the commencement of any
provision of this Act, the Minister may, by regulations, prescribe
additional provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent
on the enactment of that provision that the Minister may consider
necessary or expedient.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
