THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
      POINT-TO-POINT PASSENGER TRANSPORT
                      INDUSTRY ACT 2019

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
                                                                  2020 Ed.

Point-to-Point Passenger Transport
          Industry Act 2019

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
         General interpretation
     1.  Meaning of “street‑hail service” and associated terms
     2.  Meaning of “ride‑hail service” and associated terms
     3.  Purposes of Act
     4.  Application of Act
     5.  Administration of Act
     6.  Authorised officers
     7.
     8.

                                        PART 2

                        UNAUTHORISED ACTIVITIES

 9. Unauthorised provision of street‑hail services
10. Unauthorised provision of ride‑hail services
11. Accepting booking from unauthorised ride‑hail service provider

                                        PART 3

                            STREET‑HAIL SERVICES

12. Application for or to renew street‑hail service licences
13. Grant of street‑hail service licences
14. Periodic fee for licence and licence validity
15. Conditions of street‑hail service licences
16. Modifying conditions of street‑hail service licence
17. Restriction on transfer and surrender of street‑hail service

         licence

                                                  1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                                   2

          PART 4

          RIDE‑HAIL SERVICES

          Division 1 — Licensed ride‑hail service provider

Section   Application for or to renew ride‑hail service licence
          Grant of ride‑hail service licence
   18.    Periodic fee for licence and licence validity
   19.    Conditions of ride‑hail service licences
   20.    Modifying conditions of ride‑hail service licence
   21.    Restriction on transfer and surrender of ride‑hail service licence
   22.
   23.

          Division 2 — Exempt ride‑hail service operator

24. Exempt ride‑hail service operator does not need licence
25. Conditions applicable to exempt ride‑hail service operator
26. Variation and revocation of order

                                        PART 5
                 BUSINESS OPERATION REQUIREMENTS

           Division 1 — Management controls and record keeping

27. Change in management of licensee
28. Accounts and statements
29. Record keeping and giving information

                Division 2 — Codes of practice and Directions
30. Codes of practice for licensees
31. Directions affecting licensees

                       Division 3 — Emergency directives
32. Emergency directives
33. How emergency directive is given
34. General duty to comply with emergency directives

                                        PART 6
                                  ENFORCEMENT
                          Division 1 — Regulatory action
35. Suspension or revocation, etc., of licence
36. Proceedings for regulatory action

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
         Point-to-Point Passenger

         Transport

3        Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

         Division 2 — Enforcement powers

Section  Purpose for which enforcement powers are exercisable by
   37.   authorised officers
         Powers of entry, etc., at premises
   38.   Powers in relation to motor vehicles
   39.   Power to obtain information
   40.   Offences
   41.   Composition of offences
   42.

                                           PART 7

                                          APPEALS

   43. Interpretation of this Part
   44. Appeal to Minister
   45. Designation of others to hear appeals

                                           PART 8

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   46. Interface with other laws
   47. Recovery of fees and penalties
   48. Offences by corporations
   49. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   50. Jurisdiction of courts
   51. Service of documents
   52. General exemption
   53. Regulations
   54. Presentation to Parliament

                                           PART 9
                         CONSEQUENTIAL AND RELATED
                         AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS
                     Division 1 — [Omitted as having had effect]
   55. [Omitted]
                     Division 2 — [Omitted as having had effect]
   56. [Omitted]

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
                      Point-to-Point Passenger

                      Transport

2020 Ed.              Industry Act 2019                            4

                  Division 3 — Motor Vehicles
          (Third‑Party Risks and Compensation) Act

Section

   57. Related amendment to Motor Vehicles (Third‑Party Risks and
            Compensation) Act 1960

          Division 4 — [Omitted as having had effect]

58. [Omitted]
59. [Omitted]
60. [Omitted]

          Division 5 — [Omitted as having had effect]

61. to 66. [Omitted]

          Division 6 — [Omitted as having had effect]

67. [Omitted]

                                       PART 10
           SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS

68. Saving and transitional provisions
         The Schedule — Saving and transitional provisions

An Act with respect to point‑to‑point passenger transport services
  and to make consequential and related amendments to certain other
  Acts.

                    [29 May 2020: Except Part 2, Division 2 of Part 4,
                Part 5, Division 1 of Part 6, and sections 55, 57 to 61,

                    62(c), (d) and (e), 63(1) and (3), 64, 65 and 67(2) ;
                 30 October 2020: Part 2, Division 2 of Part 4, Part 5,
                Division 1 of Part 6, and sections 55, 58 to 61, 62(c), (d)

                                and (e), 63(1) and (3), 64, 65 and 67(2) ]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
   Point-to-Point Passenger

   Transport

5  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

   PART 1

   PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1.—(1) This Act is the Point-to-Point Passenger Transport Industry
Act 2019.

 (2) Section 57 comes into operation on a date that the Minister
appoints by notification in the Gazette.

General interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “applicant” means an applicant for or to renew a licence;

      “authorised driver” means an individual —

              (a) with a relevant vocational driving authorisation who
                   drives a public service vehicle to transport passengers
                   for hire or reward in the provision of a passenger
                   transport service; or

              (b) who is exempt under section 142 of the Road Traffic
                   Act 1961 from requiring a relevant vocational driving
                   authorisation to drive a public service vehicle to
                   transport passengers for hire or reward;

      “authorised officer”, for any provision of this Act, means an
         officer or employee of the LTA who is appointed as an
         authorised officer under section 8 for the purposes of that
         provision;

      “business” includes any business, whether or not carried on for
         profit and whether or not its primary function is connected
         with point‑to‑point passenger transport services;

      “chief executive officer”, in relation to a licensee, means an
         individual (by whatever name described) who —

              (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
                   arrangement with, the licensee; and

              (b) is principally responsible for the management and
                   conduct of the business of the licensee insofar as it

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        6

          relates to providing a street‑hail service or a ride‑hail
          service, as the case may be,

          and includes an individual for the time being performing all
          or any of the functions or duties of a chief executive officer;

“code of practice” means a code of practice issued or approved
   by the LTA under section 30, and includes any such code of
   practice as amended from time to time under that section;

“corporation” means any body corporate formed or incorporated
   or existing in Singapore or outside Singapore and includes
   any foreign company within the meaning given by the
   Companies Act 1967;

“director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“emergency directive” means a directive given under section 32;

“exempt ride-hail operator order” means an order made under
   section 24, and as varied under section 26;

“exempt ride‑hail service operator” means a person to which an
   exempt ride‑hail operator order applies;

“fare” means the consideration paid or given for the use of a
   passenger transport service, whether or not it is paid or given
   to the provider of a ride‑hail service or street‑hail service, a
   driver or any other person;

                                     Examples
          (a) The price payable for the passenger transport service.
          (b) A discount, concession, allowance, rebate or credit applying in

               relation to the price payable for that service.
          (c) A booking fee for a ride‑hail service.

“granted” or “grant”, for a licence, includes granted or grant on
   renewal and deemed granted;

“hirer” includes a prospective hirer of a motor vehicle;

“individual with disability” means an individual who has a
   mental disability, an impairment of hearing or sight, or an

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
   Point-to-Point Passenger

   Transport

7  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

   impairment which limits his or her ability to walk or restricts
   him or her to using a wheelchair;

   “licence” means a licence granted under this Act;

   “licensee” means a person to whom a licence is granted under
      this Act;

   “limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by the
      Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

   “LTA” means the Land Transport Authority of Singapore
      established under the Land Transport Authority of
      Singapore Act 1995;

   “modification” or “modify”, in relation to the conditions of a
      licence, includes deleting or varying and substituting a
      condition, and adding a condition;

   “motor vehicle” means a vehicle that is built to be propelled on a
      road wholly or in part by a motor that forms part of the
      vehicle, but does not include a mobility vehicle,
      power‑assisted bicycle or personal mobility device within
      the respective meanings given by the Active Mobility
      Act 2017;

                                                                           [Act 5 of 2026 wef 04/05/2026]

   “officer”, in relation to an applicant or exempt ride‑hail service
      operator or a licensee, means —

   (a) where the applicant, operator or licensee is a body
        corporate — an individual for the time being holding
        the office of chairperson, director, chief executive
        officer or company secretary (as the case may be) of
        the body or any position analogous to any of those
        offices;

   (b) where the applicant, operator or licensee is a
        partnership (including a limited partnership) — a
        partner of the partnership; or

   (c) where the applicant, operator or licensee is an
       unincorporated association — an individual for the
       time being holding the office of president, secretary

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        8

          or treasurer (as the case may be) of the committee of
          the unincorporated association, or any position
          analogous to any of those offices,

          and includes any person carrying out the duties of any such
          office referred to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) if the office is
          vacant;

“partner”, in relation to a limited partnership, includes a limited
   partner in the limited partnership;

“passenger” includes a prospective passenger;

“passenger transport service” means a service involving the
   transport by a motor vehicle of passengers within, or partly
   within, Singapore for hire or reward, but does not include a
   service that provides transport by a motor vehicle that is
   generally conducted on land that is not a road;

“point‑to‑point passenger transport service” means —

          (a) a ride‑hail service; or

          (b) a street‑hail service;

“premises” means a building or structure (whether permanent or
   temporary) or part of such a building or structure, and
   includes any immediately adjoining space or land necessary
   for access to, or the enjoyment of occupants of, the building
   or structure;

“provide a point‑to‑point passenger transport service” means
   providing in the course of business a point‑to‑point passenger
   transport service;

“provider”, in relation to a point‑to‑point passenger transport
   service, means the person who provides the service;

“public service motor vehicle” means a public service vehicle
   which is a motor vehicle;

“public service vehicle” has the meaning given by the Road
   Traffic Act 1961;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
                Point-to-Point Passenger

                Transport

9               Industry Act 2019                           2020 Ed.

   “Public Transport Council” or “PTC” means the Public
      Transport Council established under the Public Transport
      Council Act 1987;

   “Regulations” means any regulations made under section 53;

   “regulatory action”, for a licensee, means any action in
      section 35(1) or (2) that may be taken by the LTA against a
      licensee;

   “relevant vocational driving authorisation” means a vocational
      licence granted under section 110 of the Road Traffic
      Act 1961 authorising the holder to drive one or more of the
      following classes of public service motor vehicles for the
      purpose of transporting passengers for hire or reward:

   (a) a taxi;

   (b) a private hire car (within the meaning given by the
        Road Traffic Act 1961) which is hired, or made
        available for hire, under a contract (express or
        implied) for use as a whole with a driver for the
        purpose of conveying one or more passengers (if any)
        in that car;

   (c) a motor vehicle within a class allowed under
       section 101 of the Road Traffic Act 1961 to be
       used as a public service vehicle;

   “representative”, for an exempt ride‑hail service operator or a
      licensee who is a provider of a ride‑hail service or street‑hail
      service, means an individual (whether or not an employee or
      officer of the operator or licensee) who —

   (a) is directly involved in the day-to-day management of
        the provision of that service;

   (b) has the capacity, on behalf (as the case may be) of —

   (i) the provider of the ride‑hail service, to
       influence the safety of drivers who provide,
       and the motor vehicles driven in providing, the
       on‑demand passenger transport service to
       which the ride‑hail service relates; or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                          10

          (ii) the provider of the street‑hail service, to
               influence the safety of drivers who provide,
               and the motor vehicles driven in providing, the
               street‑hail service;

          (c) has access to and is authorised to provide any
              information relating to the ride‑hail service or
              street‑hail service (as the case may be) that is
              required by or under this Act; and

          (d) is authorised to represent for the purposes of this Act
               the provider of the ride‑hail service or street‑hail
               service (as the case may be) in providing that service;

“ride‑hail service licence” means a licence granted under Part 4;

“road” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Road Traffic
   Act 1961;

“safety incident”, in relation to a point‑to‑point passenger
   transport service, means —

          (a) an occurrence associated with the driving of a motor
               vehicle used in providing that service, where the
               vehicle is destroyed or damaged, abandoned or
               disabled, stranded or missing in operation;

          (b) any situation where an individual —

          (i) dies as a result of an occurrence associated with
              the driving of a motor vehicle used in the
              provision of that service; or

          (ii) is injured or incapacitated as a result of an
               occurrence associated with the driving of a
               motor vehicle used in the provision of that
               service; or

          (c) any situation where any property is damaged as a
              result of an occurrence associated with the driving of
              a motor vehicle used in the provision of that service,

          and “occurrence” includes an accident or a near accident;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

11  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    “street‑hail service licence” means a licence granted under
       Part 3;

    “taxi” means a public service vehicle which is classified as a taxi
       under the Second Schedule to the Road Traffic Act 1961;

    “unincorporated association” means a society or body
       unincorporate which, under any written law, may sue or be
       sued, or hold property, in the name of an officer of the society
       or body duly appointed for that purpose.

Meaning of “street‑hail service” and associated terms

 3. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “provide a street‑hail service” means providing a street‑hail
         service in the course of business;

      “related driver”, in relation to a licensee of a street‑hail service
         licence, means an authorised driver with whom the licensee
         has a related driver agreement;

      “related driver agreement”, in relation to a licensee of a
         street‑hail service licence, means an agreement or
         arrangement between the licensee and an authorised driver
         of a motor vehicle under which the driver is entitled to drive
         the motor vehicle to transport passengers for hire or reward as
         part of the street‑hail service authorised by the licence, and it
         does not matter —

              (a) whether or not the authorised driver is an employee
                   or agent of the licensee; and

              (b) whether the motor vehicle is hired from the licensee;

      “street‑hail service” means a passenger transport service —

              (a) provided using motor vehicles which are taxis, 2 or
                   more of which at any time in a year are taxis owned
                   by the provider of that service; and

              (b) under which any individual can hail or hire
                   on‑demand such a motor vehicle when it is —

                     (i) standing or plying for hire on a road; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        12

          (ii) authorised under this Act or the Road Traffic
               Act 1961 to stand or ply for hire on a road
               (whether or not the motor vehicle is hired by
               other means for the purposes of providing that
               passenger transport service).

Meaning of “ride‑hail service” and associated terms

 4.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “bookable vehicle” means any of the following motor vehicles:

              (a) a taxi;

              (b) a private hire car (within the meaning given by the
                   Road Traffic Act 1961) which is hired, or made
                   available for hire, under a contract (express or
                   implied) for use as a whole with a driver for the
                   purpose of conveying one or more passengers (if any)
                   in that car;

              (c) a motor vehicle that is within a class allowed under
                   section 101 of the Road Traffic Act 1961 to be used
                   as a public service vehicle, and is prescribed as
                   permissible for the purposes of this definition;

      “booking”, in relation to a ride‑hail service, means a booking for
         a motor vehicle to be used in providing an on‑demand
         passenger transport service taken or facilitated by the
         provider of the ride‑hail service;

      “on‑demand passenger transport service” means a passenger
         transport service —

              (a) provided using bookable vehicles;

              (b) in which the passenger or hirer determines or
                   substantially determines the locations for the
                   beginning and end of the journey and the time of
                   travel; and

              (c) which does not involve a street‑hail service;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

13  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    “on‑demand ride booking service” means —

    (a) a service that involves —

    (i) taking or facilitating bookings for bookable
        vehicles made available, or to be made
        available, in providing on‑demand passenger
        transport services (whether immediately or at a
        later time); and

    (ii) communicating the bookings to —

    (A) providers of on‑demand passenger
         transport services;

    (B) other providers of on‑demand ride
         booking services; or

    (C) drivers of bookable vehicles made
         available, or to be made available, to
         carry out the on‑demand passenger
         transport services;

    (b) a service that involves taking or facilitating bookings
         for bookable vehicles made available, or to be made
         available, in providing on‑demand passenger
         transport services (whether immediately or at a
         later time), where the person who takes or
         facilitates the bookings is an authorised driver
         carrying out the service;

    (c) a service that involves the provision of passenger
        transport services by bookable vehicles for hire or
        reward where the passengers are transported under a
        vehicle pooling arrangement as prescribed; or

    (d) a service that the Regulations prescribe is an
         on‑demand ride booking service,

    but excludes any service of a kind that the Regulations
    prescribe is not an on‑demand ride booking service;

    “participating bookable driver”, in relation to a provider of a
       ride‑hail service, means an authorised driver who has a
       participating driver agreement with the provider;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        14

“participating driver agreement”, in relation to a provider of a
   ride-hail service, means an agreement or arrangement
   between the provider of a ride‑hail service and a driver of
   a bookable vehicle under which —

          (a) the provider agrees to —

          (i) take or facilitate any booking by or on behalf of
              a passenger for bookable vehicles made
              available, or to be made available, in
              providing on‑demand passenger transport
              services (whether immediately or at a later
              time) to the passenger; and

          (ii) communicate the booking to participating
               bookable drivers; and

          (b) the driver agrees to carry out the on‑demand
               passenger transport service in the booking by
               transporting the passenger for hire or reward, using
               a bookable vehicle,

          and it does not matter —

          (c) whether or not —

          (i) the driver is an employee or agent of the
              provider of the ride‑hail service; or

          (ii) where the provider of the ride‑hail service is a
               platform operator, the driver is a platform
               worker of the provider; or

        (d) whether the vehicle is hired from that provider;

                                                                       [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

“platform operator” has the meaning given by section 4 of the
   Platform Workers Act 2024;

                                                                       [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

“platform worker” has the meaning given by section 5(1) of the
   Platform Workers Act 2024;

                                        [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

15  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    “provide a ride‑hail service” means providing in the course of
       business a ride‑hail service;

    “ride‑hail service” means —

    (a) an on‑demand passenger transport service; or

    (b) an on‑demand ride booking service.

 (2) For the purpose of determining whether a person provides a
ride‑hail service in Singapore, it does not matter —

    (a) that a booking is obtained or communicated remotely by
         means of an electronic device or other means not directly
         provided by the person who provides the service; or

    (b) that the provider of the ride‑hail service is located outside
         Singapore, if the on‑demand passenger transport service to
         which the ride‑hail service relates is provided wholly or
         partly within Singapore.

(3) To avoid doubt, a person provides —

    (a) an on‑demand ride booking service if the person contracts
         with, or arranges for, other persons to provide the
         on‑demand passenger transport service booked through
         the ride booking service unless excluded by the
         Regulations; or

    (b) a ride-hail service if the person provides an on‑demand
         passenger transport service and takes bookings for that
         on‑demand passenger transport service.

 (4) However, in this Act, a person is not to be regarded as providing
an on‑demand passenger transport service solely because the person
drives a public service motor vehicle for use in carrying out that
service.

 (5) For the purposes of this Act, an on‑demand passenger transport
service relates to a ride‑hail service if the on‑demand passenger
transport service is or is to be carried out as a result of a booking taken
or facilitated by —

    (a) a provider of an on‑demand ride booking service
         comprised in the ride‑hail service; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        16

(b) a provider of the ride‑hail service.

Purposes of Act

 5. The purposes of this Act are to regulate the provision of
point‑to‑point passenger transport services so as —

       (a) to facilitate the delivery of safe, reliable, efficient and
            customer‑focused point‑to‑point passenger transport
            services in Singapore; and

       (b) to enable the development and operation of innovative and
            accessible point‑to‑point passenger transport services
            which contribute to the mobility and safety of people in
            Singapore.

Application of Act

 6.—(1) This Act extends to any conduct outside Singapore, or
partly inside or partly outside Singapore, that results in the provision
of any point‑to‑point passenger transport service for journeys by
motor vehicles within, or partly within, Singapore.

 (2) This Act binds the Government, but nothing in this Act renders
the Government liable to prosecution for an offence under this Act.

 (3) To avoid doubt, no person is immune from prosecution for any
offence under this Act by reason only that the person is engaged to
provide services to the Government or is acting in any other similar
capacity for, or on behalf of, the Government.

 (4) Nothing in this Act requires the LTA and the PTC, respectively,
to hold a licence in order to discharge their respective functions or
exercise their respective powers under any Act.

Administration of Act

 7.—(1) It is the function of the LTA to exercise licensing and
regulatory functions in accordance with this Act with respect to the
provision in Singapore of point‑to‑point passenger transport services,
and to otherwise administer this Act.

 (2) In discharging the functions and duties imposed on it by
subsection (1), the LTA must have regard to the need —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

17  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    (a) for reliable, safe and convenient passenger travel on motor
         vehicles and other forms of land transport in Singapore;

    (b) for ensuring that any person licensed or otherwise
         authorised under this Act to provide in Singapore
         point‑to‑point passenger transport services is able to do
         so efficiently; and

    (c) for sustainability, adequacy and optimisation of capacity
        across the network of public passenger transport services
        on land for journeys within Singapore.

 (3) No liability shall lie personally against any member, officer or
employee of the LTA or any other person acting under the direction of
the LTA for anything done or intended to be done in good faith and
with reasonable care in the execution or purported execution of this
Act.

Authorised officers

 8.—(1) The LTA may, in relation to any provision of this Act or the
Regulations, appoint any of its officers or employees to be an
authorised officer for the purposes of that provision, either generally
or in a particular case.

 (2) The LTA may delegate the exercise of all or any of the powers
conferred or duties imposed upon it by any provision of this Act or the
Regulations (except the power of delegation conferred by this
subsection) to any authorised officer, subject to such conditions or
limitations as the LTA may specify; and any reference in that
provision of this Act or the Regulations to the LTA includes a
reference to such an authorised officer.

                                    PART 2
                    UNAUTHORISED ACTIVITIES
Unauthorised provision of street‑hail services
 9.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person provides in
Singapore a street‑hail service when the person —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                          18

(a) is not authorised to do so by a street‑hail service licence;
     and

(b) is not exempt from this section by an order under
     section 52 in relation to that service.

(2) The offence under subsection (1) is a strict liability offence.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $500 for
every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, a licensee of a street‑hail
service licence is not authorised by its licence to provide a street‑hail
service during the period the licence is suspended.

Unauthorised provision of ride‑hail services

 10.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person provides in
Singapore a ride‑hail service —

       (a) when the person is not authorised to do so by a ride‑hail
            service licence and is not authorised to do so as an exempt
            ride‑hail service operator; and

       (b) when the person is not exempt from this section by an order
            under section 52 in relation to that service.

 (2) The offence under subsection (1) is a strict liability offence.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $500 for
every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, a licensee of a ride‑hail service
licence is not authorised by its licence to provide a ride‑hail service
during the period the licence is suspended.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

19  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

Accepting booking from unauthorised ride‑hail service
provider

 11.—(1) A driver who drives a motor vehicle used in carrying out
any on‑demand passenger transport service related to a ride‑hail
service commits an offence if —

    (a) the driver intentionally takes one or more bookings for that
         on‑demand passenger transport service from the provider
         of the ride‑hail service;

    (b) the provider of the ride‑hail service —

    (i) is not authorised to provide that ride‑hail service by a
        ride‑hail service licence;

    (ii) is not authorised to provide that ride‑hail service as
         an exempt ride‑hail service operator; and

    (iii) is not exempt from section 10(1), by an order under
          section 52, in relation to the provision of that
          ride‑hail service; and

    (c) the driver knows that, or is reckless as to whether, the
        provider of the ride‑hail service is not authorised to provide
        that ride‑hail service as described in paragraph (b) and is
        not exempt from section 10(1) as described in that
        paragraph.

 (2) A driver who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction as follows:

    (a) to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to imprisonment for a
         term not exceeding 3 months or to both;

    (b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
         not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 6 months or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
                         Point-to-Point Passenger

                         Transport

2020 Ed.                 Industry Act 2019                         20

                         PART 3

          STREET‑HAIL SERVICES

Application for or to renew street‑hail service licences

 12.—(1) An application for or to renew a street‑hail service licence
must be made to the LTA in accordance with this section.

 (2) An application for or to renew a street‑hail service licence
must —

(a) be in the form and manner the LTA specifies;

(b) be accompanied by an application fee, if prescribed;

          (c) contain —

          (i) an address in Singapore at which notices and other
              documents under this Act for the applicant may be
              served; or

          (ii) the name and address of one or more persons in
               Singapore authorised by the applicant to accept on
               the applicant’s behalf service of notices and other
               documents under this Act;

(d) state the construction or type of taxi used or to be used in
     the provision of the service; and

          (e) be accompanied by the prescribed information, and any
              other additional information that the LTA requires to
              decide on the application.

 (3) The LTA may refuse to consider an application for or to renew a
street‑hail service licence that is incomplete or not made in
accordance with this section.

 (4) Upon receiving an application for or to renew a street‑hail
service licence, the LTA may carry out, or arrange to be carried out by
any authorised officer, such investigations and inquiries in relation to
the application as the LTA considers necessary for a proper
consideration of the application.

 (5) A person commits an offence if the person, being an applicant
for the grant of a street‑hail service licence —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

21  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    (a) provides, or causes or permits to be provided, any
         document or information in connection with the
         application which is false in a material particular; and

    (b) knows or ought reasonably to know that, or is reckless as to
         whether, it is false or misleading in a material particular.

 (6) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (5) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Grant of street‑hail service licences

 13.—(1) After considering any application under section 12 for or
to renew a street‑hail service licence, the LTA may —

       (a) on payment of —

               (i) the applicable licence fee (if prescribed), grant the
                   applicant a licence authorising the applicant to
                   provide a street‑hail service; or

              (ii) a renewal fee or late renewal fee (if prescribed),
                   renew the licence; or

       (b) refuse to grant or renew the street‑hail service licence, as
            the case may be.

 (2) In deciding whether an applicant should be granted a street‑hail
service licence, or the applicant’s street‑hail service licence should be
renewed, and the conditions to impose or modify, the LTA must have
regard to, and give such weight as the LTA considers appropriate to,
all of the following matters:

       (a) whether the applicant is or is not —

               (i) intending to provide any other point‑to‑point
                   passenger transport services;

              (ii) a holder of another street‑hail service licence or a
                   ride‑hail service licence; or

             (iii) an exempt ride‑hail service operator;

       (b) whether the applicant does or does not have (or is likely or
            unlikely to have) the financial capacity and ability to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        22

          provide the street‑hail service in the application safely and
          efficiently;

          (c) the applicant’s capacity to deliver the street‑hail service in
              the application according to the applicable codes of
              practice;

(d) the demand for the street‑hail service in the application;

          (e) whether the applicant is a corporation, partnership or
              limited liability partnership, or an unincorporated
              association;

          (f) whether the applicant and where necessary, whether every
              officer of the applicant is a suitable person to be involved
              in the management of providing the street‑hail service in
              the application;

(g) whether the applicant has nominated or will nominate at
     least one individual who satisfies the prescribed
     qualifications as a representative if a licence is granted;

(h) whether it is otherwise contrary to the public interest for
     the street‑hail service licence to be granted to the applicant.

 (3) For the purpose of determining whether or not a person or an
individual referred to in subsection (2)(f) is a suitable person to be
involved in the management of providing a street‑hail service, the
LTA must have regard, and give such weight as the LTA considers
appropriate, to all of the following matters:

(a) the person’s or individual’s relevant knowledge,
     competency and experience in matters connected with
     providing such a service;

(b) any evidence of the exercise of any power under
     section 35 —

          (i) in relation to the person or individual for committing
              an offence under this Act, or for contravening any
              direction given under this Act; or

          (ii) in relation to a licensee holding, or a former licensee
               which held, a street‑hail service licence of which the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

23  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    individual is or was an officer when the power was
    exercised;

    (c) any evidence of the exercise of any power under
        section 111H of the Road Traffic Act 1961 (as in force
        before 30 October 2020) in relation to a person holding a
        taxi service operator licence of which the individual is or
        was an officer when that power was exercised;

    (d) any prior conviction for committing (whether before, on or
         after 29 May 2020) any of the following offences:

    (i) an offence under Part 5 of the Road Traffic Act 1961
        (or any rules made under that Part) in relation to
        taxis, private hire cars, private hire car booking
        service operators or taxi service operators;

    (ii) an offence under Part VA of the Road Traffic
         Act 1961 (or any rules made under that Part) in
         relation to taxis or taxi service operators as in force
         before 30 October 2020;

    (iii) an offence under the Public Transport Council
          Act 1987 in relation to taxis;

    (iv) an offence under the Third‑Party Taxi Booking
         Service Providers Act 2015;

    (v) any offence involving fraud or dishonesty, whether
         or not the conviction was in a Singapore court;

    (vi) an offence under this Act;

    (vii) any relevant offence under any written law;

    (e) any previous occasion where the person or individual
        accepted any composition sum offered under any written
        law for an offence mentioned in paragraph (d);

    (f) the person’s or individual’s present or previous
        involvement, or proposed involvement, in the public
        transport system in Singapore.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        24

 (4) To avoid doubt, the LTA is not confined to consideration of the
matters specified in subsections (2) and (3) and may take into account
such other matters and evidence as may be relevant.

 (5) Without affecting subsection (1), the LTA may grant a renewal
of a street‑hail service licence (of any class) with or without
modifying the conditions of the licence, but section 16(2), (3) and (4)
does not apply to or in relation to granting a renewal of a street‑hail
service licence with modifications to the conditions of the licence.

 (6) The LTA may subdivide any class of street‑hail service licence it
grants under this section into subclasses, such as according to any of
the following, and may grant the licence accordingly:

(a) the construction or type of taxi driven or intended to be
     driven in providing the street‑hail service authorised by the
     licence;

(b) the type of street‑hail service;

          (c) the number of taxis driven or intended to be driven in
              providing the street‑hail service authorised by the licence;

(d) the number of related drivers made available in providing
     the street‑hail service authorised by the licence.

Periodic fee for licence and licence validity

 14.—(1) Every street‑hail service licence granted under this Part is
valid for the period specified in the licence and is in force unless the
licence is earlier revoked or suspended under section 35.

 (2) For every period prescribed (which must not exceed the validity
of a street-hail service licence), a licensee of the street‑hail service
licence must pay to the LTA, not later than the date prescribed, a
periodic fee prescribed for that licence.

 (3) If a licensee of a street‑hail service licence fails to pay the
periodic fee in accordance with subsection (2), the LTA may, by
written notice, require the licensee to make good the default.

 (4) Every street‑hail service licence must be in the form the LTA
determines.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

25  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

Conditions of street‑hail service licences

 15.—(1) In granting a street‑hail service licence to any person, the
LTA may impose any conditions that the LTA considers requisite or
expedient having regard to the purposes of this Act.

 (2) In particular, in granting a street‑hail service licence to a
provider of the street‑hail service, the LTA may impose conditions —

    (a) fixing the construction or type of taxi which may be made
         available by the licensee to provide the street‑hail service
         authorised by the licence;

    (b) fixing all or any of the following:

    (i) the maximum or minimum number, or both, of
        authorised drivers with whom the licensee, during
        the validity period of the licence or any part of that
        period, may have a related driver agreement to
        transport passengers for hire or reward as part of the
        street‑hail service authorised by the licence;

    (ii) the maximum or minimum number, or both, of taxis
         or type of taxis which the licensee, during the
         validity period of the licence or any part of that
         period, may make available to transport passengers
         for hire or reward as part of the street‑hail service
         authorised by the licence;

    (c) requiring the licensee —

    (i) to appoint, and ensure that at all times there is
        appointed, one or more persons in Singapore
        authorised by the licensee to accept on the
        licensee’s behalf service of notices and other
        documents under this Act; and

    (ii) to provide the name, address and contact details of
         the person or persons appointed as required by
         sub‑paragraph (i);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        26

(d) requiring the licensee —

          (i) to nominate, and ensure that at all times there is
              nominated, one or more representatives each of
              whom satisfy the prescribed qualifications; and

          (ii) to provide the name, address and contact details of
               the representative or representatives so nominated;

          (e) requiring the provision of a performance bond, guarantee
              or any other form of security of such amount and on such
              terms and conditions as the LTA may determine —

          (i) to secure compliance by the licensee with any
              condition attached to the licence or any code of
              practice applicable to the licensee; or

          (ii) to meet any financial penalty arising out of any
               regulatory action started or likely to start against the
               licensee, or both;

          (f) requiring the licensee to undergo (at its own cost) such
              audit as the LTA may require to ascertain the licensee’s
              compliance with —

          (i) the provisions of the Act or a code of practice
              applicable to the licensee;

          (ii) the conditions of the street‑hail service licence
               granted to that licensee; or

          (iii) a direction given under this Act or an emergency
                directive;

(g) requiring the licensee to comply with applicable codes of
     practice;

(h) relating to the basic terms that must be in a related driver
     agreement between the licensee and an authorised driver
     with whom the licensee has to provide the street‑hail
     service authorised by the licence, including a term for
     payment, within a maximum period prescribed, to that
     authorised driver the fares or reward for carrying out the
     street‑hail service;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

27  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    (i) concerning insurance requirements relating to the
        provision of the street‑hail service by the licensee; or

    (j) controlling and restricting, directly or indirectly, the
        creation, holding or disposal of shares in the licensee, or
        of interests in the undertaking of the licensee or any part of
        the undertaking.

 (3) An audit mentioned in subsection (2)(f) must be carried out by
authorised officers, other officers of the LTA or such qualified
individuals approved by the LTA for that purpose.

Modifying conditions of street‑hail service licence

 16.—(1) Subject to this section, it is lawful for the LTA to modify
the conditions of a street‑hail service licence without compensating
the licensee concerned.

 (2) Before modifying any condition of a street‑hail service licence,
the LTA must give notice to the licensee holding that licence —

       (a) stating that the LTA proposes to make the modification in
            the manner as specified in the notice; and

       (b) specifying the time (being not less than 14 days after the
            date of service of notice on the licensee) within which the
            licensee may make written representations to the LTA with
            respect to the proposed modification.

 (3) Upon receiving any written representation mentioned in
subsection (2)(b), the LTA must consider that representation and
may —

       (a) reject the representation;

       (b) amend the proposed modification in such manner as the
            LTA thinks fit having regard to the representation; or

       (c) withdraw the proposed modification.

 (4) Where —

       (a) the LTA rejects any written representation under
            subsection (3)(a);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        28

(b) the LTA amends any proposed modification to the
     conditions of the licence under subsection (3)(b); or

          (c) no written representation is received by the LTA within the
              time specified in subsection (2)(b), or any written
              representation made under subsection (2)(b) is
              subsequently withdrawn,

the LTA must issue a direction in writing to the licensee in question
requiring the licensee, within the time specified by the LTA, to give
effect to the modification as specified in the notice under
subsection (2) or as amended by the LTA, as the case may be.

Restriction on transfer and surrender of street‑hail service
licence

 17.—(1) A street‑hail service licence, and any rights, benefits or
privileges under the licence, are not transferable or assignable to any
other person unless —

       (a) the licence contains a condition authorising the transfer or
            assignment; and

       (b) the LTA consents in writing to the transfer or assignment.

 (2) Any consent under subsection (1) may be given subject to
compliance with any conditions that the LTA thinks fit to impose,
which may include conditions modifying, or requiring or otherwise
providing for the making of modifications to, the conditions of the
licence; but section 16(2), (3) and (4) does not apply to or in relation
to these modifications to the conditions of the licence.

 (3) A transfer or an assignment, or a purported transfer or
assignment, of a street‑hail service licence, or of any rights,
benefits or privileges under the licence, is void and of no effect —

       (a) if the licence is not capable of transfer or assignment;

       (b) if the transfer or assignment, or purported transfer or
            assignment, is in breach of a condition of the licence; or

       (c) if there has, before the transfer or assignment or purported
            transfer or assignment, been a contravention of a condition

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

29  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    subject to compliance with which the consent required by
    subsection (1) is given.

 (4) Every street‑hail service licence is not capable of being
surrendered without the written consent of the LTA, and any
surrender or purported surrender of a licence is void if it is without
such consent.

                                    PART 4

                          RIDE‑HAIL SERVICES

           Division 1 — Licensed ride‑hail service provider

Application for or to renew ride‑hail service licence

 18.—(1) An application for or to renew a ride‑hail service licence
must be made to the LTA in accordance with this section.

 (2) An application for or to renew a ride‑hail service licence
must —

       (a) be in the form and manner the LTA specifies;

       (b) be accompanied by an application fee, if prescribed;

       (c) contain —

               (i) an address in Singapore at which notices and other
                   documents under this Act for the applicant may be
                   served; or

              (ii) the name and address of one or more persons in
                   Singapore authorised by the applicant to accept on
                   the applicant’s behalf service of notices and other
                   documents under this Act;

       (d) state the construction or type of bookable vehicle used or to
            be used in the provision of the service; and

       (e) be accompanied by the prescribed information, and any
            other additional information that the LTA requires to
            decide on the application.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        30

 (3) The LTA may refuse to consider an application for or to renew a
ride‑hail service licence that is incomplete or not made in accordance
with this section.

 (4) Upon receiving an application for or to renew a ride‑hail service
licence, the LTA may carry out, or arrange to be carried out by any
authorised officer, such investigations and inquiries in relation to the
application as the LTA considers necessary for a proper consideration
of the application.

 (5) A person commits an offence if the person, being an applicant
for the grant of a ride‑hail service licence —

(a) provides, or causes or permits to be provided, any
     document or information in connection with the
     application which is false in a material particular; and

(b) knows or ought reasonably to know that, or is reckless as to
     whether, it is false or misleading in a material particular.

 (6) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (5) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Grant of ride‑hail service licence

 19.—(1) After considering any application under section 18 for or
to renew a ride‑hail service licence, the LTA may —

       (a) on payment of —

               (i) the applicable licence fee (if prescribed), grant the
                   applicant a licence authorising the applicant to
                   provide a ride‑hail service; or

              (ii) a renewal fee or late renewal fee (if prescribed),
                   renew the licence; or

       (b) refuse to grant or renew the ride‑hail service licence, as the
            case may be.

 (2) In deciding whether an applicant should be granted a ride‑hail
service licence, or the applicant’s ride‑hail service licence should be
renewed, and the conditions to impose or modify, the LTA must have

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

31  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

regard, and give such weight as the LTA considers appropriate, to all
of the following matters:

    (a) whether the applicant is or is not —

    (i) intending to provide any other point‑to‑point
        passenger transport services;

    (ii) a holder of another ride‑hail service licence or a
         street‑hail service licence; or

    (iii) an exempt ride‑hail service operator;

    (b) whether the applicant does or does not have (or is likely or
         unlikely to have) the financial capacity and ability to
         provide the ride‑hail service in the application safely and
         efficiently;

    (c) the applicant’s capacity to deliver the ride‑hail service in
        the application according to the applicable codes of
        practice;

    (d) the demand for the ride‑hail service in the application;

    (e) whether the applicant is a corporation, partnership or
        limited liability partnership, or an unincorporated
        association;

    (f) whether the applicant and where necessary, whether every
        officer of the applicant is a suitable person to be involved
        in the management of providing the ride‑hail service in the
        application;

    (g) whether the applicant has nominated or will nominate at
         least one individual who satisfies the prescribed
         qualifications as a representative if a licence is granted;

    (h) whether it is otherwise contrary to the public interest for
         the ride‑hail service licence to be granted to the applicant.

 (3) For the purpose of determining whether or not a person or an
individual referred to in subsection (2)(f) is a suitable person to be
involved in the management of providing a ride‑hail service, the LTA
must have regard, and give such weight as the LTA considers
appropriate, to all of the following matters:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        32

(a) the person’s or individual’s relevant knowledge,
     competency and experience in matters connected with
     providing a ride‑hail service;

(b) any evidence of the exercise of any power under
     section 35 —

          (i) in relation to the person or individual for committing
              an offence under this Act, or for contravening any
              direction given under this Act; or

          (ii) in relation to a licensee holding, or a former licensee
               which held, a ride‑hail service licence of which the
               individual is or was an officer when the power was
               exercised;

          (c) any evidence of non‑compliance with, or revocation of, an
              exempt ride‑hail operator order in relation to an exempt
              ride‑hail service operator or a former exempt ride‑hail
              service operator (as the case may be) of which the
              individual is or was an officer when the power was
              exercised;

(d) any evidence of the exercise of any power —

          (i) under section 111H of the Road Traffic Act 1961 (as
              in force before 30 October 2020) in relation to a
              person holding a taxi service operator licence of
              which the individual is or was an officer when that
              power was exercised; or

          (ii) under section 20 of the Third‑Party Taxi Booking
               Service Providers Act 2015 in relation to a person
               registered under that Act of which the individual is or
               was an officer when that power was exercised;

          (e) any prior conviction for committing (whether before, on or
              after 29 May 2020) any of the following offences:

          (i) an offence under Part 5 of the Road Traffic Act 1961
              (or any rules made under that Part) in relation to
              taxis, private hire cars, private hire car booking
              service operators or taxi service operators;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

33  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    (ii) an offence under Part VA of the Road Traffic
         Act 1961 (or any rules made under that Part) in
         relation to taxis or taxi service operators as in force
         before 30 October 2020;

    (iii) an offence under the Public Transport Council
          Act 1987 in relation to taxis;

    (iv) an offence under the Third‑Party Taxi Booking
         Service Providers Act 2015;

    (v) any other offence involving fraud or dishonesty,
         whether or not the conviction was in a Singapore
         court;

    (vi) an offence under this Act;

    (vii) any relevant offence under any written law;

    (f) any previous occasion where the person or individual
        accepted any composition sum offered under any written
        law for an offence mentioned in paragraph (e);

    (g) the person’s or individual’s present or previous
         involvement, or proposed involvement, in the public
         transport system in Singapore.

 (4) To avoid doubt, the LTA is not confined to consideration of the
matters specified in subsections (2) and (3) and may take into account
such other matters and evidence as may be relevant.

 (5) Without affecting subsection (1), the LTA may grant a renewal
of a ride‑hail service licence (of any class) with or without modifying
the conditions of the licence, but section 22(2), (3) and (4) does not
apply to or in relation to granting a renewal of a ride‑hail service
licence with modifications to the conditions of the licence.

 (6) The LTA may subdivide any class of ride‑hail service licence it
grants under this section into subclasses, such as according to any of
the following, and may grant the licence accordingly:

    (a) the construction or type of bookable vehicle driven or
         intended to be driven in carrying out the on‑demand
         passenger transport services to which the ride‑hail service
         authorised by the licence relates;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        34

(b) the type of ride‑hail service;

          (c) the number of motor vehicles driven or intended to be
              driven in carrying out the on‑demand passenger transport
              services to which the ride‑hail service authorised by the
              licence relates;

(d) the number of participating bookable drivers made
     available in providing the on‑demand passenger transport
     services to which the ride‑hail service authorised by the
     licence relates.

Periodic fee for licence and licence validity

 20.—(1) Every ride-hail service licence granted under this Part is
valid for the period specified in the licence and is in force unless the
licence is earlier revoked or suspended under section 35.

 (2) For every period prescribed (which must not exceed the validity
of a ride‑hail service licence), a licensee of the ride‑hail service
licence must pay to the LTA, not later than the date prescribed, a
periodic fee prescribed for that licence.

 (3) If a licensee of a ride‑hail service licence fails to pay the
periodic fee in accordance with subsection (2), the LTA may, by
written notice, require the licensee to make good the default.

 (4) Every ride‑hail service licence must be in the form the LTA
determines.

Conditions of ride‑hail service licences

 21.—(1) In granting a ride‑hail service licence to any person, the
LTA may impose any conditions that the LTA considers requisite or
expedient having regard to the purposes of this Act.

 (2) In particular, in granting a ride‑hail service licence to a provider
of the ride‑hail service, the LTA may impose conditions —

       (a) fixing the construction or type of motor vehicles which
            may be made available, through the ride‑hail service
            authorised by the licence, to carry out any on‑demand
            passenger transport service related to the ride‑hail service;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

35  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    (b) fixing the maximum or minimum number, or both, of
         authorised drivers with whom the licensee, during the
         validity period of the licence or any part of that period, may
         have a participating driver agreement;

    (c) requiring the licensee —

    (i) to appoint, and ensure that at all times there is
        appointed, one or more persons in Singapore
        authorised by the licensee to accept on the
        licensee’s behalf service of notices and other
        documents under this Act; and

    (ii) to provide the name, address and contact details of
         the person or persons appointed as required by
         sub‑paragraph (i);

    (d) requiring the licensee —

    (i) to nominate, and ensure that at all times there is
        nominated, one or more representatives each of
        whom satisfy the prescribed qualifications; and

    (ii) to provide the name, address and contact details of
         the representative or representatives so nominated;

    (e) requiring the provision of a performance bond, guarantee
        or any other form of security of such amount and on such
        terms and conditions as the LTA may determine —

    (i) to secure compliance by the licensee with any
        condition attached to the licence or any code of
        practice applicable to the licensee; or

    (ii) to meet any financial penalty arising out of any
         regulatory action started or likely to start against the
         licensee, or both;

    (f) requiring the licensee to undergo (at its own cost) such
        audit as the LTA may require to ascertain the licensee’s
        compliance with —

    (i) the provisions of the Act or a code of practice
        applicable to the licensee;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        36

          (ii) the conditions of the ride‑hail service licence granted
               to that licensee; or

          (iii) a direction given under this Act or an emergency
                directive;

(g) requiring the licensee to comply with applicable codes of
     practice;

(h) relating to the basic terms that must be in a participating
     driver agreement between the licensee and an authorised
     driver with whom the licensee has to provide the ride‑hail
     service authorised by the licence, including a term for
     payment, within a maximum period prescribed, to that
     authorised driver the fares or reward for carrying out the
     on‑demand passenger transport services to which the
     ride‑hail service relates;

          (i) concerning insurance requirements relating to the
              provision of the ride‑hail service by the licensee; or

          (j) controlling and restricting, directly or indirectly, the
              creation, holding or disposal of shares in the licensee, or
              of interests in the undertaking of the licensee or any part of
              the undertaking.

 (3) An audit mentioned in subsection (2)(f) must be carried out by
authorised officers, other officers of the LTA or such qualified
individuals approved by the LTA for that purpose.

Modifying conditions of ride‑hail service licence

 22.—(1) Subject to this section, it is lawful for the LTA to modify
the conditions of a ride‑hail service licence without compensating the
licensee concerned.

 (2) Before modifying any condition of a ride‑hail service licence,
the LTA must give notice to the licensee holding that licence —

       (a) stating that the LTA proposes to make the modification in
            the manner as specified in the notice; and

       (b) specifying the time (being not less than 14 days after the
            date of service of notice on the licensee) within which the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
             Point-to-Point Passenger

             Transport

37           Industry Act 2019                               2020 Ed.

    licensee may make written representations to the LTA with
    respect to the proposed modification.

 (3) Upon receiving any written representation mentioned in
subsection (2)(b), the LTA must consider that representation and
may —

    (a) reject the representation;

    (b) amend the proposed modification in any manner that the
         LTA thinks fit having regard to the representation; or

    (c) withdraw the proposed modification.

(4) Where —

    (a) the LTA rejects any written representation under
         subsection (3)(a);

    (b) the LTA amends any proposed modification to the
         conditions of the licence under subsection (3)(b); or

    (c) no written representation is received by the LTA within the
        time specified in subsection (2)(b), or any written
        representation made under subsection (2)(b) is
        subsequently withdrawn,

the LTA must issue a direction in writing to the licensee in question
requiring the licensee, within the time specified by the LTA, to give
effect to the modification as specified in the notice under
subsection (2) or as amended by the LTA, as the case may be.

Restriction on transfer and surrender of ride‑hail service
licence

 23.—(1) A ride‑hail service licence, and any rights, benefits or
privileges under the licence, are not transferable or assignable to any
other person unless —

       (a) the licence contains a condition authorising the transfer or
            assignment; and

       (b) the LTA consents in writing to the transfer or assignment.

 (2) Any consent under subsection (1) may be given subject to
compliance with any conditions that the LTA thinks fit to impose,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        38

which may include conditions modifying, or requiring or otherwise
providing for the making of modifications to, the conditions of the
licence; but section 22(2), (3) and (4) does not apply to or in relation
to these modifications to the conditions of the licence.

 (3) A transfer or an assignment, or a purported transfer or
assignment, of a ride‑hail service licence, or of any rights, benefits
or privileges under the licence, is void and of no effect —

(a) if the licence is not capable of transfer or assignment;

(b) if the transfer or assignment, or purported transfer or
     assignment, is in breach of a condition of the licence; or

          (c) if there has, before the transfer or assignment or purported
              transfer or assignment, been a contravention of a condition
              subject to compliance with which the consent required by
              subsection (1) is given.

 (4) Every ride‑hail service licence is not capable of being
surrendered without the consent in writing of the LTA, and any
surrender or purported surrender of a licence is void if it is without
such consent.

            Division 2 — Exempt ride‑hail service operator

Exempt ride‑hail service operator does not need licence

 24.—(1) The LTA may, with the approval of the Minister, by order
in the Gazette, authorise any provider of a ride‑hail service to which
the order applies as exempt from requiring a ride‑hail service licence
for a specified period or indefinitely or to such an extent as may be
specified in the order, and subject to such conditions as may be
specified in that order.

 (2) An order under subsection (1) continues in force, unless it is
revoked, for such period as may be specified in the order.

 (3) The provision of a ride‑hail service by any person to which an
order under subsection (1) applies is deemed authorised by this Act if
it is done in accordance with the conditions of the order.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

39  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

Conditions applicable to exempt ride‑hail service operator

 25. Without limiting section 24(1), the conditions subject to which
an exempt ride‑hail service operator may provide a ride‑hail service
without a ride‑hail service licence may include any of the following
requirements:

    (a) to do or not to do any things that are specified in the order
         under section 24(1) or are of a description so specified,
         except insofar as the LTA consents to the operator doing or
         not doing them;

    (b) to refer for determination by the LTA any questions arising
         under the exemption that are specified in the order under
         section 24(1) or are of a description so specified;

    (c) to take reasonable steps to ensure that each of the drivers
        with whom the operator has a participating driver
        agreement is an authorised driver;

    (d) to provide information and reports to the LTA about the
         operator, its participating bookable drivers and the
         ride‑hail service it provides;

    (e) to provide the LTA —

    (i) an address in Singapore at which notices and other
        documents under this Act for the operator may be
        served; or

    (ii) the name and address of one or more persons in
         Singapore authorised by the operator to accept on the
         operator’s behalf service of notices and other
         documents under this Act;

    (f) to nominate, and ensure that at all times there is nominated,
        one or more representatives each of whom satisfy the
        prescribed qualifications, and to provide the LTA the name,
        address and contact details of the representative or
        representatives so nominated.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        40

Variation and revocation of order

 26.—(1) Subject to this section, the LTA may, with the approval of
the Minister and by order in the Gazette —

(a) revoke an exempt ride‑hail operator order; or

(b) vary an exempt ride‑hail operator order by —

          (i) varying or cancelling any condition specified in the
              order; or

          (ii) specifying additional conditions in the order.

 (2) Before varying an order made under section 24(1) or revoking
such an order, the LTA must, unless it considers it impractical or
undesirable in the circumstances of the case, cause to be published, in
accordance with subsection (3), a written notice that —

(a) states that the LTA proposes to vary the order, or to end the
     order;

(b) describes the proposed variation or ending; and

          (c) invites interested persons to make representations about
              the proposed variation or ending by a specified date that is
              at least 14 days after the date of publication of the notice.

 (3) A notice under subsection (2) must be published on the LTA’s
website or in one or more other forms that are readily accessible by
the public.

 (4) The LTA must, before varying an order under subsection (1) or
revoking such an order, give due consideration to any representations
made to the LTA pursuant to the notice given in accordance with
subsection (2).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

41  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    PART 5

    BUSINESS OPERATION REQUIREMENTS

    Division 1 — Management controls and record keeping

Change in management of licensee

 27.—(1) It is a condition of every licence that the licensee to whom
the licence is granted must notify the LTA of, where the licensee is a
corporation, partnership, limited liability partnership or an
unincorporated association —

    (a) the resignation or removal of any officer of the
         corporation, partnership, limited liability partnership or
         unincorporated association (as the case may be) within the
         prescribed period after the date of resignation or removal,
         as the case may be; or

    (b) the death of any of its officers within the prescribed period
         after the date the licensee becomes aware of that death.

 (2) To avoid doubt, this section applies even though a licence is
suspended pursuant to section 35.

Accounts and statements

 28.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), a licensee holding a street‑hail
service licence or ride‑hail service licence must —

       (a) in respect of the whole or part (as the case may be) of every
            financial year, prepare such accounts and statements as are
            specified in, or ascertained in accordance with, the
            Regulations;

       (b) retain the accounts and statements prepared in accordance
            with paragraph (a) for 5 years after the end of the period to
            which they relate;

       (c) within the prescribed period after the close of a financial
            year of the licensee, give to the LTA those accounts and
            statements duly audited by an auditor approved by the
            LTA; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
                Point-to-Point Passenger

                Transport

2020 Ed.        Industry Act 2019                                  42

(d) keep and retain records, where the records are relevant to
     the preparation of the accounts and statements of the
     licensee mentioned in paragraph (a), for such period and in
     such manner as prescribed in the Regulations.

 (2) A licensee must not prepare any such accounts or statements in
such a way that they do not correctly record and explain the matters or
things to which they relate.

(3) A person —

(a) who is subject to any requirement under subsection (1) or
     (2); and

(b) who intentionally or negligently contravenes the
     requirement,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000.

 (4) The LTA may on application waive any requirement under
subsection (1) in any particular case.

 (5) Regulations may be made to vary the period mentioned in
subsection (1)(b).

Record keeping and giving information

 29.—(1) A licensee of a street‑hail service licence must —

       (a) keep and retain, for such period as may be prescribed,
            records, where the records are relevant to monitoring or
            evaluating, under this Act, an aspect of the street‑hail
            service as specified in the licence; and

       (b) give to the LTA, within the period and in the manner
            specified in the licence, information that is relevant to
            monitoring or evaluating, under this Act, an aspect of the
            street‑hail service as specified in the licence.

 (2) A licensee of a ride‑hail service licence must, with respect to
any ride‑hail service provided by the licensee —

       (a) keep and retain, for such period as may be prescribed,
            records, where the records are relevant to monitoring or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

43  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    evaluating, under this Act, an aspect of the ride‑hail service
    as specified in the licence; and

    (b) give to the LTA, within the period and in the manner
         specified in the licence, information that is relevant to
         monitoring or evaluating, under this Act, an aspect of the
         ride‑hail service as specified in the licence.

 (3) An exempt ride‑hail service operator providing a ride‑hail
service to which an exempt ride‑hail operator order applies must —

    (a) keep and retain, for such period as may be prescribed,
         records, where the records are relevant to monitoring or
         evaluating, under this Act, an aspect of the ride‑hail service
         as specified in the order; and

    (b) give to the LTA, within the period and in the manner
         prescribed, information that is relevant to monitoring or
         evaluating, under this Act, an aspect of the ride‑hail service
         as specified in the order.

 (4) A person who is subject to a requirement under subsection (1),
(2) or (3) to keep and retain or give any record or information
commits an offence if the person —

    (a) intentionally or negligently contravenes the requirement
         under subsection (1), (2) or (3) to keep and retain or give;

    (b) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any record or
         information which the person is required under
         subsection (1), (2) or (3) to keep, retain or give; or

    (c) who, in keeping, retaining or giving the record or
        information required under subsection (1), (2) or (3),
        makes any statement which the person knows to be false in
        a material particular, or recklessly makes such a statement.

 (5) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (4) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        44

          Division 2 — Codes of practice and Directions

Codes of practice for licensees

30.—(1) The LTA may, from time to time —

(a) issue one or more codes of practice applicable to licensees
     or specified types of licensees;

(b) approve as a code of practice applicable to licensees or
     specified types of licensees any document prepared by a
     person other than the LTA if the LTA considers the
     document as suitable for this purpose; or

          (c) amend or revoke any code of practice issued under
              paragraph (a) or approved under paragraph (b),

with respect to all or any of the matters in subsection (2) or (3), as the
case may be.

 (2) In the case of a code of practice applicable to a licensee holding
a street‑hail service licence, the matters for the purposes of
subsection (1) include any of the following:

(a) the condition, maintenance, construction, use and
     deployment of the taxis owned or made available by the
     licensee in providing the street‑hail service;

(b) measures directed towards ensuring the security and safety
     of any of the following:

          (i) passengers of taxis used in the provision of the
              street‑hail service;

          (ii) related drivers of the licensee while they are engaged
               in carrying out the street‑hail service;

          (c) relating to the conduct of the employees and agents of the
              licensee, and individuals who are related drivers of the
              licensee, in connection with the provision of the street‑hail
              service;

(d) measures to deal with customer complaints and lost
     property found in taxis made available by the licensee in
     providing the street‑hail service, and the processes to
     handle and dispose of such complaints and property;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

45  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    (e) measures to deal with relevant offences, safety incidents
        and accidents involving the following, and reporting to the
        LTA those safety incidents and accidents:

    (i) taxis made available by the licensee to provide the
        street‑hail service;

    (ii) related drivers of the licensee;

    (f) measures to facilitate the access to, and use of, the
        street‑hail service by individuals with disabilities;

    (g) advance reporting to the LTA of related drivers of the
         licensee and taxis withdrawn from engagement or use in
         providing the street‑hail service;

    (h) measures necessary for licensees to deal with any plague,
         epidemic, fire, flood, earthquake or disaster (natural or
         otherwise) or any public emergency;

    (i) performance standards relating to the provision of
        street‑hail services and the quality of other aspects of the
        provision of the street‑hail service, such as —

    (i) minimum service levels determined according to
        such things as the specified periods of time during
        which the street‑hail service is to be provided, the
        extent of the service and the frequency of operation
        of that service during specified periods; and

    (ii) performance outcomes for frequency, regularity,
         punctuality and accessibility of the street‑hail
         service, and of customer information and service;

    (j) relating to the provision of estimates, publication and
        display of fares (including payment surcharges, and
        charges on transactions involving payment of a
        street‑hail fare) for or in connection with the provision
        of the street‑hail service, including the following:

    (i) prepayment, collection, the requirements for receipts
        and the information to be included in receipts;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        46

          (ii) processes for calculating fares for the provision of
               street‑hail services, including the transparency and
               availability of those services;

          (k) the advertising of street‑hail services and street‑hail fares;

          (l) relating to the expansion of the street‑hail service by
              reference to a maximum rate of increase in the number of
              taxis that may be owned by a street‑hail service licensee
              during the validity period of the licence to provide the
              service or any other suitable factor;

(m) other performance standards relating to street‑hail
     services.

 (3) In the case of a code of practice applicable to a licensee holding
a ride‑hail service licence, the matters for the purposes of
subsection (1) include any of the following:

(a) the condition, maintenance, construction, use and
     deployment of the bookable vehicles made available
     through the ride‑hail service to carry out the on‑demand
     passenger transport service related to the ride‑hail service;

(b) measures directed towards ensuring the security and safety
     of any of the following:

          (i) passengers of bookable vehicles made available
              through the ride‑hail service to carry out the
              on‑demand passenger transport service relating to
              the ride‑hail service;

          (ii) participating bookable drivers of those bookable
               vehicles while they are engaged in carrying out the
               on‑demand passenger transport service relating to
               the ride‑hail service;

          (c) relating to the conduct of the employees and agents of the
              licensee, and individuals who are participating bookable
              drivers of the licensee, in connection with the provision of
              the on‑demand passenger transport service related to the
              ride‑hail service;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

47  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    (d) measures to deal with customer complaints and lost
         property found in bookable vehicles made available
         through the ride‑hail service, and the processes to handle
         and dispose of such complaints and property;

    (e) measures to deal with relevant offences, safety incidents
        and accidents involving the following, and reporting to the
        LTA those safety incidents and accidents:

    (i) bookable vehicles made available through the
        ride‑hail service to carry out the on‑demand
        passenger transport service related to the ride‑hail
        service;

    (ii) participating bookable drivers of the licensee;

    (f) measures to facilitate the access to, and use of, the ride‑hail
        service by individuals with disabilities;

    (g) advance reporting to the LTA of participating bookable
         drivers of the licensee and bookable vehicles withdrawn
         from engagement or use in providing the on‑demand
         passenger transport service made available through the
         ride‑hail service;

    (h) measures necessary for licensees to deal with any plague,
         epidemic, fire, flood, earthquake or disaster (natural or
         otherwise) or any public emergency;

    (i) performance standards relating to the provision of ride‑hail
        services and the quality of other aspects of the provision of
        the ride‑hail service, such as —

    (i) minimum service levels determined according to
        such things as the specified periods of time during
        which the ride‑hail service is to be provided, the
        extent of the service and the frequency of operation
        of that service during specified periods; and

    (ii) performance outcomes for frequency, regularity,
         punctuality and accessibility of the ride‑hail
         service, and of customer information and service;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                               48

          (j) relating to the provision of estimates, publication and
              display of fares (including payment surcharges, and
              charges on transactions involving payment of a ride‑hail
              fare) for or in connection with the provision of the ride‑hail
              service, including the following:

          (i) prepayment, collection, the requirements for receipts
              and the information to be included in receipts;

          (ii) processes for calculating fares for the provision of
               ride‑hail services, including the transparency and
               availability of those services;

          (k) the advertising of ride‑hail services and ride‑hail fares;

          (l) other performance standards relating to ride‑hail services.

 (4) A code of practice may, in particular, specify the duties and
obligations of any licensee in relation to its business operation insofar
as it relates to the provision of point‑to‑point passenger transport
services in Singapore.

 (5) If any provision in any code of practice is inconsistent with any
provision of this Act or the Regulations, that provision, to the extent
of the inconsistency —

(a) is to have effect subject to this Act and the Regulations; or

(b) having regard to this Act and the Regulations, is not to
     have effect.

 (6) Where a code of practice is issued, approved, amended or
revoked by the LTA under subsection (1), the LTA must —

(a) give notice of the issue, approval, amendment or
     revocation (as the case may be) of the code of practice
     to every licensee to whom the code of practice applies;

(b) specify in the notice mentioned in paragraph (a) the date of
     issue, approval, amendment or revocation, as the case may
     be; and

          (c) ensure that, so long as the code of practice remains in force,
              copies of that code of practice, and of all amendments to
              that code of practice, are available for inspection, free of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

49  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    charge, by the licensees to whom the code of practice
    applies.

 (7) No code of practice, no amendment to such a code of practice,
and no revocation of any such code of practice, has any force or effect
until the notice relating to that is given in accordance with
subsection (6).

 (8) A code of practice issued or approved under this section does
not have legislative effect.

 (9) Subject to subsection (10), every licensee must comply with the
codes of practice applicable to the licensee.

 (10) The LTA may, for such time as the LTA may specify, waive the
application of any code of practice or part of a code of practice, issued
or approved under this section to any particular licensee.

 (11) For the purposes of subsections (2)(e) and (3)(e), “relevant
offence” means any of the following offences committed on or after
30 October 2020:

    (a) an offence under the Road Traffic Act 1961 or any
         subsidiary legislation made under that Act;

    (b) an offence under section 3 of the Motor Vehicles
         (Third‑Party Risks and Compensation) Act 1960;

    (c) an offence under section 41 of the Public Transport
        Council Act 1987;

    (d) an offence under this Act or the Regulations.

Directions affecting licensees

 31.—(1) The LTA may give a direction to a licensee for or in
respect of any matter affecting the interests of the public in
connection with the point‑to‑point passenger transport service
provided by the licensee, after considering the following matters
with respect to all or any of the point‑to‑point passenger transport
services provided in Singapore:

       (a) the development of innovative and accessible
            point‑to‑point passenger transport services which

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        50

          contribute to the mobility and safety of people in
          Singapore;

(b) the arrangements between the licensees and the
     arrangements supporting the provision of point‑to‑point
     passenger transport services;

          (c) the related driver agreements and participating driver
              agreements between authorised drivers and the respective
              licensees;

(d) the social impact of the direction;

          (e) the impact of the direction on the use of other public
              passenger transport in Singapore;

          (f) standards of quality, reliability and safety of those services
              (whether those standards are specified by legislation,
              licence conditions, agreement or otherwise);

(g) any other matter the LTA considers relevant having regard
     to the purposes of this Act.

(2) A direction given under subsection (1) —

(a) may require the licensee concerned (according to the
     circumstances of the case) to do, or to refrain from doing,
     for a specified period, the things specified in the direction
     or the things that are of a description specified in the
     direction;

(b) takes effect at such time, being the earliest practicable
     time, as is determined by or under that direction; and

          (c) may be revoked at any time by the LTA.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (2), a direction under subsection (1)
so as to alleviate or minimise any risk of obstructing any measures
taken to reduce the impact of any serious public passenger transport
incident in Singapore or a part of Singapore, may require the licensee
concerned to stop providing point‑to‑point passenger transport
services specified in the direction to hirers in any part of
Singapore, for a period not exceeding 24 hours, or any further
periods not exceeding 24 hours each.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

51  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

 (4) A direction under this section continues in force until the earlier
of the following occurs:

    (a) the expiry date (if any) stated in the direction is reached;

    (b) the LTA revokes the direction.

 (5) Before exercising any power under subsection (1), the LTA
must, unless the LTA in respect of any particular direction considers
that it is not practicable or desirable, give written notice to the
licensee concerned —

    (a) stating that the LTA intends to give a direction to the
         licensee under this section and the nature of the direction;
         and

    (b) specifying the time (being not less than 14 days after the
         date of service of the notice on the licensee) within which
         written representations may be made to the LTA with
         respect to the proposed direction.

 (6) The LTA may, after considering any written representation
under subsection (5)(b), decide to give or not to give, or to modify, the
direction as the LTA considers appropriate.

 (7) The LTA must serve on the licensee concerned a notice of its
decision under subsection (6).

 (8) Every licensee must comply with every direction given under
this section to the licensee as soon as it takes effect.

 (9) However, nothing in this section authorises the LTA to give any
direction with regard to fares which are regulated by the PTC under
the Public Transport Council Act 1987.

 (10) In this section, “serious public passenger transport incident”
includes any of the following:

    (a) a stoppage or disruption of more than one regular route
         service (within the meaning given by the Bus Services
         Industry Act 2015) in Singapore or any part of Singapore;

    (b) a large‑scale disruption of services on one or more rapid
         transit systems within the meaning of the Rapid Transit
         Systems Act 1995.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
                 Point-to-Point Passenger

                      Transport

2020 Ed.              Industry Act 2019                            52

          Division 3 — Emergency directives

Emergency directives

 32.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the LTA may, and in accordance
with subsections (3), (4), (5) and (6), give such emergency directives
as may be necessary to alleviate or minimise any risk —

(a) of death of, or a serious injury to, any individual from the
     provision of any point‑to‑point passenger transport
     service; or

(b) of damage to any property from the provision of any
     point‑to‑point passenger transport service.

 (2) The LTA must not make any emergency directive unless it is
impracticable in the circumstances of the particular case for the LTA
to make or amend any Regulations to effectively alleviate or
minimise the risk concerned.

 (3) The LTA may give an emergency directive made under this
section to all or any of the following, individually or as a class:

(a) a licensee;

(b) an exempt ride‑hail service operator;

          (c) a provider of a street‑hail service or ride‑hail service which
              is exempt from section 9(1) or 10(1) (as the case may be)
              by an order under section 52.

 (4) In making an emergency directive under this section, it is not
necessary for the LTA to give any person who may be affected by the
directive a chance to be heard before the directive is given.

 (5) An emergency directive may be in force for a period not
exceeding 6 months unless earlier revoked under subsection (6), and
may be renewed by the LTA once only for a further period not
exceeding 6 months.

 (6) The LTA may, at any time when any emergency directive is in
force, revoke the emergency directive by giving notice of that
revocation in the same manner as the directive was given.

 (7) So far as any emergency directive is inconsistent with the
Regulations, the emergency directive prevails.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

                          Transport

53  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

How emergency directive is given

 33.—(1) An emergency directive is binding on the person or class
of persons to whom it is addressed and given.

 (2) An emergency directive that is addressed to a person is
sufficiently given if it is served in the manner prescribed in
section 51.

 (3) An emergency directive that is addressed to a class of persons is
sufficiently given if it is —

    (a) served on each of the persons in the class in the manner
         prescribed in section 51; or

    (b) published both —

    (i) in a daily newspaper circulating in Singapore or in
        any other news media that, in the opinion of the LTA,
        is most likely to bring the emergency directive to the
        attention of the persons who belong to the class; and

    (ii) on the LTA’s official website.

 (4) Once such an emergency directive is made and given under this
section, the LTA must also publish the making of the directive in a
manner that the LTA thinks will secure adequate publicity for the fact
of making and giving of the emergency directive.

 (5) However, failure to publish an emergency directive under
subsection (4) does not invalidate the directive.

(6) An emergency directive that is given —

    (a) in accordance with subsection (2) takes effect when it is
         served;

    (b) in accordance with subsection (3)(a) takes effect when it is
         served on all the persons in the class in question; and

    (c) in accordance with subsection (3)(b) takes effect at the
        beginning of the day after the date on which
        subsection (3)(b) has been complied with.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                       54

General duty to comply with emergency directives

 34.—(1) An emergency directive may require the person it binds
(according to the circumstances of the case) to do, or to refrain from
doing, for a specified period, the things specified in the directive or
the things that are of a description specified in the directive, including
stopping any point‑to‑point passenger transport service within any
part of Singapore.

 (2) A person to whom an emergency directive is given and who is
required by the directive to do, or to refrain from doing, for a
specified period, the things specified in the directive or the things that
are of a description specified in the directive, commits an offence if
the person intentionally or negligently fails to comply with the
directive.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (2) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                    PART 6
                              ENFORCEMENT
                      Division 1 — Regulatory action
Suspension or revocation, etc., of licence
 35.—(1) Subject to section 36, if the LTA is satisfied that —
       (a) a licensee is contravening or not complying with, or has
            contravened or failed to comply with —
               (i) any of the conditions of its licence;
              (ii) any provision of this Act or the Regulations
                   applicable to the licensee, contravention of or
                   non‑compliance with which is not an offence under
                   this Act;
             (iii) any provision of a code of practice applicable to the
                   licensee; or
             (iv) any direction given to the licensee under section 31
                   or subsection (2)(c), (d) or (f);

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

55  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    (b) the licensee has gone or is likely to go into compulsory or
         voluntary liquidation other than for the purpose of
         amalgamation or reconstruction;

    (c) the licensee has made any assignment to, or composition
        with, its creditors or, if a corporation, is unable to pay its
        debts;

    (d) the licensee is not providing an adequate and satisfactory
         street‑hail service or ride‑hail service, as the case may be;

    (e) the licensee or an officer of the licensee is convicted of any
        offence under this Act or the Regulations committed
        during the term of the licence;

    (f) the licence had been obtained by the licensee by fraud or
        misrepresentation;

    (g) any part of the periodic licence fee required by section 14
         or 20 is in arrears; or

    (h) the public interest of Singapore requires,

the LTA may revoke (without any compensation) the licensee’s
licence, with or without forfeiting the whole or part of any
performance bond, guarantee or other form of security furnished
by the licensee under this Act.

 (2) However, the LTA may, in lieu of revoking a licensee’s licence
under subsection (1), do any one or more of the following:

    (a) censure the licensee in writing;

    (b) modify any condition of the licence (sections 16(2) and
         22(2) being disapplied);

    (c) direct the furnishing of any performance bond, guarantee
        or other form of security, or an additional performance
        bond, guarantee or other form of security, for either or both
        the following:

    (i) to secure compliance by the licensee with any
        condition attached to the licence or any code of
        practice applicable to the licensee;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
               Point-to-Point Passenger

               Transport

2020 Ed.       Industry Act 2019                                   56

          (ii) for the purpose of meeting any financial penalty
               arising out of any regulatory action started or likely
               to start against the licensee;

(d) direct the licensee to do, or to refrain from doing, such
     things as are specified in a direction to rectify any
     contravention or non‑compliance mentioned in
     subsection (1)(a);

          (e) suspend the licence without any compensation for not
              more than 3 months;

          (f) direct the licensee to pay, within a period specified in a
              direction, a financial penalty of such amount as the LTA
              thinks fit, but not exceeding the maximum specified in
              subsection (6).

 (3) Where any financial penalty is imposed on a licensee under
subsection (2) for contravening or not complying with any condition
in its licence or any code of practice applicable to the licensee, any
performance bond, guarantee or other form of security given by the
licensee to secure compliance by the licensee with any condition
attached to the licence or any code of practice applicable to the
licensee must not be forfeited by the LTA for that contravention
except to the extent to pay the financial penalty.

 (4) In taking any regulatory action under this section in relation to
the conviction of a licensee or any person for a criminal offence, the
LTA may accept the licensee’s or the person’s conviction as final and
conclusive.

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (1)(c), a corporation is unable to
pay its debts if it is a corporation which is deemed to be so unable
under section 254(2) or 351(2) (as the case may be) of the Companies
Act 1967 as in force before 30 July 2020.

 (6) The highest of the following is the maximum financial penalty
that a licensee holding a street‑hail service licence or ride‑hail service
licence may be directed under subsection (2)(f) to pay at the end of
proceedings under this section with a view to regulatory action:

(a) $100,000;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

57  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    (b) 10% of the annual turnover from the licensee’s business of
         providing a street‑hail service or ride‑hail service (as the
         case may be) ascertained from the licensee’s latest audited
         accounts;

    (c) $100,000 for each contravention or failure to comply that
        is the subject of the regulatory action where the ground of
        the regulatory action is subsection (1)(a);

    (d) 10% of the annual turnover from the licensee’s business of
         providing a street‑hail service or ride‑hail service (as the
         case may be) ascertained from the licensee’s latest audited
         accounts, for each act done or omission made that results in
         a failure to provide an adequate and satisfactory street‑hail
         service or ride‑hail service, where the ground of the
         regulatory action is subsection (1)(d).

 (7) All financial penalties imposed under subsection (2) must be
paid into the Consolidated Fund.

Proceedings for regulatory action

 36.—(1) Before exercising any powers under section 35(1) or (2) in
relation to a licensee, the LTA must give written notice to the licensee
concerned —

       (a) stating that the LTA intends to take regulatory action
            against the licensee;

       (b) specifying the type of action in section 35(1) or (2) the LTA
            proposes to take, and each ground and each instance of
            non‑compliance (where applicable), that is the subject of
            the action; and

       (c) specifying the time (being not less than 14 days after the
            date of service of notice on the licensee) within which
            written representations may be made to the LTA with
            respect to the proposed action.

 (2) The LTA may, after considering any written representation
mentioned in subsection (1)(c), decide to take such regulatory action
in section 35(1) or (2) as the LTA considers appropriate.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        58

 (3) Where the LTA has made any decision under subsection (2)
against any licensee, the LTA must serve on the licensee concerned a
notice of its decision.

 (4) Subject to section 44, a decision to revoke a licence under
section 35(1), or to impose a regulatory action in section 35(2), which
is specified in the notice given under subsection (3), takes effect from
the date on which that notice is given, or on such other date as may be
specified in the notice.

 (5) Any suspension or revocation of any licence under section 35
with respect to a licensee does not affect —

(a) the enforcement by any person of any right or claim against
     the licensee or the former licensee, as the case may be; or

(b) the enforcement by the licensee or former licensee (as the
     case may be) of any right or claim against any person.

                    Division 2 — Enforcement powers

Purpose for which enforcement powers are exercisable by
authorised officers

 37.—(1) An authorised officer may exercise the powers set out in
this Division for any of the following purposes:

       (a) to determine compliance with this Act and the Regulations,
            including whether an offence under this Act or the
            Regulations has been committed;

       (b) to determine compliance with any condition of a licence or
            in an exempt ride‑hail operator order with respect to any
            exempt ride‑hail service operator;

       (c) to determine whether information provided to the LTA
            under a provision of this Act or its subsidiary legislation is
            correct;

       (d) to investigate whether there are grounds for taking any
            regulatory action against a licensee.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

59  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

 (2) To avoid doubt, nothing in this Division limits section 39 of the
Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995 with respect to an
offence under this Act or the Regulations.

Powers of entry, etc., at premises

 38.—(1) An authorised officer may, in accordance with
subsection (2), enter any premises occupied by a relevant person
which the authorised officer reasonably believes to be used for or in
connection with the provision of any point‑to‑point passenger
transport service, and do all or any of the following at the premises:

       (a) to examine any thing or observe any activity conducted in
            or on the premises;

       (b) to search the premises and any thing in or on the premises;

       (c) to make a still or moving image or recording of the
            premises and any thing in or on the premises;

       (d) to inspect any document in the premises and take extracts
            from, or make copies of, any such document;

       (e) to take into or onto the premises such equipment and
            materials as the authorised officer requires for the purpose
            of exercising powers in relation to the premises;

        (f) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises;

       (g) to secure a thing for a period not exceeding 24 hours if the
            thing is found in or on the premises, where the authorised
            officer believes on reasonable grounds that —

               (i) the thing is evidential material relevant to an offence
                   under this Act or the Regulations, or is used or
                   intended to be used for the purpose of contravening
                   any condition of a licence or in an exempt ride‑hail
                   operator order or any code of practice, direction or
                   emergency directive under this Act; and

              (ii) it is necessary to secure the thing in order to prevent
                   it from being concealed, lost or destroyed before a
                   warrant to seize the thing is obtained;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        60

(h) to seize any thing found in or on the premises which the
     authorised officer reasonably suspects is as described in
     paragraph (g)(i);

          (i) to require any individual found in or on the premises to
              answer any question (to the best of that individual’s
              knowledge, information and belief) and to provide any
              document or information that the officer reasonably
              requires for the purposes of section 37.

 (2) However, an authorised officer is not authorised by
subsection (1) —

(a) to enter any premises except —

          (i) with the consent of the occupier; or

          (ii) under a warrant of a Magistrate’s Court or District
               Court;

(b) to search any premises unless the search is made under a
     warrant of a Magistrate’s Court or District Court; or

          (c) to seize any thing in or on any premises unless the seizure
              is made under a warrant of a Magistrate’s Court or District
              Court.

 (3) A warrant mentioned in subsection (2) may be issued if a
Magistrate’s Court or District Court is satisfied that it is necessary for
the authorised officer to enter the premises, search the premises or
seize any thing (as the case may be) for the purposes of section 37.

 (4) The power under subsection (1)(f) to operate electronic
equipment in or on any premises includes the power —

(a) to use a disk, tape or other storage device that is in or on the
     premises and can be used with the equipment or in
     association with the equipment;

(b) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to put
     the relevant data in documentary form and remove the
     documents so produced from the premises; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

61  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    (c) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to
        transfer the relevant data to a disk, tape or other storage
        device that —

    (i) is brought to the premises for the exercise of the
        power; or

    (ii) is in or on the premises and the use of which for that
         purpose has been agreed in writing by the occupier of
         the premises,

    (c) and to remove the disk, tape or other storage device from
        those premises.

 (5) The power under subsection (1)(g) to secure any thing which is
found during the exercise of enforcement powers in or on any
premises includes the power —

    (a) to secure the thing by locking it up, placing a guard or any
         other means; and

    (b) to prohibit any person from dealing with such thing.

 (6) The power to require an individual to provide any document or
information under subsection (1)(i) includes the power —

    (a) to require that individual to provide an explanation of the
         document or information;

    (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
         that individual to state, to the best of the individual’s
         knowledge and belief, where it is; and

    (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
        form, to require the information to be made available to the
        authorised officer or the LTA in legible form.

 (7) Sections 370, 371 and 372 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010
apply, with the necessary modifications, when an authorised officer
seizes any thing under this section.

(8) In this section, “relevant person” means —

    (a) a person to whom a licence is or was granted;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        62

(b) a person who is or was an exempt ride‑hail service
     operator;

          (c) an individual who is or was an officer or a representative of
              a person mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b);

(d) an individual who is or was an employee of the provider of
     a point‑to‑point passenger transport service;

          (e) a person whom an authorised officer suspects on
              reasonable grounds is or was the provider of any
              point‑to‑point passenger transport service, or an agent of
              such a person; or

          (f) an individual who is or was —

          (i) a related driver of a licensee of a street‑hail service
              licence; or

          (ii) a participating bookable driver of a licensee of a
               ride‑hail service licence or an exempt ride‑hail
               service operator.

Powers in relation to motor vehicles

 39.—(1) An authorised officer may do all or any of the following in
relation to a motor vehicle which the authorised officer reasonably
believes to be used for or in connection with the provision of any
point‑to‑point passenger transport service:

       (a) to stop and detain the vehicle for as long as is reasonably
            necessary for the exercise of any other power of the
            authorised officer under this section;

       (b) to inspect the vehicle and any equipment in or on the
            vehicle;

       (c) to make a still or moving image or recording of the vehicle
            and any thing in or on the vehicle;

       (d) to inspect any document in the vehicle and take extracts
            from, or make copies of, any such document;

       (e) to operate a computer or other thing in or on the vehicle;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

63  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    (f) to require the driver or any passenger of the vehicle, or a
        person in possession of the vehicle, to answer any question
        (to the best of that individual’s or person’s knowledge,
        information and belief) and to provide any document or
        information that the officer reasonably requires for the
        purposes of section 37.

 (2) The power to require an individual or person to provide any
document or information under subsection (1)(f) includes the
power —

    (a) to require that individual or person to provide an
         explanation of the document or information;

    (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
         that individual or person to state, to the best of the
         individual’s or person’s knowledge and belief, where it is;
         and

    (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
        form, to require the information to be made available to the
        authorised officer or the LTA in legible form.

Power to obtain information

 40.—(1) An authorised officer may by written notice require any
licensee or exempt ride‑hail service operator to provide, within a
reasonable period specified in the notice, and in such form and
manner as may be specified in the notice, all documents and
information which —

       (a) relate to any matter which the authorised officer considers
            necessary for the purposes of section 37; and

       (b) are —

               (i) within the knowledge of that licensee or exempt
                   ride‑hail service operator, as the case may be; or

              (ii) in the custody or under the control of the licensee or
                   exempt ride‑hail service operator, as the case may be.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        64

 (2) The power to require a licensee or an exempt ride‑hail service
operator to provide any document or information under
subsection (1) includes the power —

(a) to require that licensee or exempt ride‑hail service
     operator, or any individual who is or was an officer or
     agent or a representative of the licensee or exempt ride‑hail
     service operator (as the case may be), to provide an
     explanation of the document or information;

(b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
     that licensee, exempt ride‑hail service operator or
     individual to state, to the best of the knowledge and
     belief of that licensee, exempt ride‑hail service operator or
     individual (as the case may be), where it is; and

          (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
              form, to require the information to be made available to the
              LTA or an authorised officer in legible form.

 (3) The LTA is entitled without payment to keep any document or
information, or any copy or extract, provided to the LTA or an
authorised officer under subsection (1) or section 38(1)(i) or 39(1)(f).

Offences

 41.—(1) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do
anything required of the person by an authorised officer under
section 38(1) or 39(1), or by notice under section 40(1), shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000.

 (2) A person —

       (a) who intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any
            document or information which the person has been
            required by an authorised officer under section 38(1)(i)
            or 39(1)(f), or by a notice under section 40(1) to provide; or

       (b) who, in providing any document or information required
            by an authorised officer under section 38(1)(i) or 39(1)(f),
            or by a notice under section 40(1), makes any statement
            which the person knows or ought reasonably to know that,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

65  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    or is reckless as to whether, it is false or misleading in a
    material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (3) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is a
defence for the accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that
the person —

    (a) does not possess the document or information required; or

    (b) has taken all reasonable steps available to the person to
         obtain the document or information required and has been
         unable to obtain it.

 (4) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of subsection (1), it is a
reasonable excuse for a person to refuse or fail to provide any
information, produce any document or answer any question if doing
so might tend to incriminate that person.

Composition of offences

 42.—(1) The LTA or an authorised officer may compound any
offence under this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence
by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the
following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

                             Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        66

                             PART 7

                             APPEALS

Interpretation of this Part

43. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

“appealable decision” means any of the following decisions of
   the LTA:

          (a) a decision refusing the grant of a licence under
               section 13 or 19;

          (b) any decision under section 15 or 21 imposing a
               condition in a licensee’s licence, as the case may be;

          (c) any modification under section 16 or 22 of a
              condition in a licensee’s licence;

          (d) a refusal of consent under section 17 or 23 to a
               transfer or assignment of a licence;

          (e) a decision under section 35(1) to revoke a licence;

          (f) a decision under section 35(2) to impose a regulatory
              action against a licensee;

          (g) a direction under section 31, except a direction
               described in section 31(3);

“appellant” means any of the following in relation to the
   following appealable decisions:

          (a) an applicant for the grant of a licence, where the
               appealable decision is within paragraph (a) of the
               definition of “appealable decision”;

          (b) a licensee, where the appealable decision is within
               paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (f) and (g) of the definition of
               “appealable decision”;

          (c) a licensee or former licensee, where the appealable
              decision is within paragraph (e) of the definition of
              “appealable decision”;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

67  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    “Minister of State” means a Minister of State or Senior Minister
       of State assisting the Minister on matters within the purposes
       of this Act;

    “Parliamentary Secretary” includes a Senior Parliamentary
       Secretary appointed to assist the Minister in the discharge
       of the Minister’s duties and functions under this Act;

    “Second Minister” means the Second Minister to the Minister, if
       any.

Appeal to Minister

 44.—(1) An appellant who is aggrieved by an appealable decision
may appeal to the Minister against the decision in accordance with
this section.

 (2) An appeal under this section must be in writing and specify the
grounds on which it is made, and be made —

       (a) for an appealable decision under section 16 or 22 about the
            modification of a condition in a licence, within 28 days
            after the date the decision appealed against is served; and

       (b) for any other appealable decision, within 14 days after the
            date the decision appealed against is served.

 (3) The Minister may reject an appeal of an appellant who fails to
comply with subsection (2).

 (4) After considering an appeal, the Minister may —

       (a) reject the appeal and confirm the LTA’s decision; or

       (b) allow the appeal and substitute or vary the LTA’s decision.

 (5) The Minister’s decision on an appeal is final.

 (6) Every appellant must be notified of the Minister’s decision
under subsection (4).

 (7) An appeal against an appealable decision does not affect the
operation of the decision appealed against or prevent the taking of
action to implement the decision, and unless otherwise directed by
the Minister under this subsection, the decision appealed against must
be complied with until the determination of the appeal.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        68

Designation of others to hear appeals

 45. The Minister may designate a Second Minister, Minister of
State or Parliamentary Secretary to hear and determine, in the
Minister’s place, any appeals or a specific appeal under section 44;
and any reference in that section to the Minister includes a reference
to the Second Minister, Minister of State or Parliamentary Secretary
so designated for that appeal.

                                    PART 8

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Interface with other laws

 46. To avoid doubt, this Act does not affect the operation of the
Public Transport Council Act 1987, the Road Traffic Act 1961 or the
Workplace Safety and Health Act 2006.

Recovery of fees and penalties

 47.—(1) The LTA may impose interest at the prescribed rate on any
outstanding amount of —

       (a) any fee payable under section 13 or 19 for the grant of a
            licence;

       (b) any periodic fee payable under section 14 or 20; or

       (c) any financial penalty directed under section 35(2) to be
            paid.

 (2) The following may be recovered by the LTA in any court of
competent jurisdiction as if they were simple contract debts:

       (a) any fee payable under section 13 or 19 for the grant of a
            licence;

       (b) any periodic fee payable under section 14 or 20;

       (c) any financial penalty directed under section 35(2) to be
            paid;

       (d) any interest mentioned in subsection (1).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
                  Point-to-Point Passenger

                          Transport

69                Industry Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

Offences by corporations

 48.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

    (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
         that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
         apparent authority; and

    (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

    (a) who is —

    (i) an officer of the corporation; or

    (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
         corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
         of the corporation in relation to the commission of
         the offence; and

    (b) who —

    (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
        effect the commission of the offence;

    (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
         knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
         commission of the offence by the corporation; or

    (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
          offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
          type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
          take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
          commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

                       Transport

2020 Ed.               Industry Act 2019                           70

offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
     regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

“corporation” includes a limited liability partnership;

“officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
   partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
   officer of the corporation, and includes —

          (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

          (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
               members, any of those members as if the member
               were a director of the corporation;

“reasonable steps”, in relation to the commission of an offence,
   includes, but is not limited to, such action (if any) of the
   following kinds as is reasonable in all the circumstances:

          (a) action towards —

          (i) assessing the corporation’s compliance with
              the provision creating the offence; and

          (ii) ensuring that the corporation arranged regular
               professional assessments of its compliance
               with the provision;

          (b) action towards ensuring that the corporation’s
               employees, agents and contractors are provided
               with information, training, instruction and
               supervision appropriate to them to enable them to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

71  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    comply with the provision creating the offence so far
    as the provision is relevant to them;

    (c) action towards ensuring that —

    (i) the equipment and other resources; and

    (ii) the structures, work systems and other
         processes,

    (c) relevant to compliance with the provision creating
        the offence are appropriate in all the circumstances;

    (d) action towards creating and maintaining a corporate
         culture that does not direct, encourage, tolerate or
         lead to non‑compliance with the provision creating
         the offence;

    “state of mind” of a person includes —

    (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
         of the person; and

    (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
         or purpose.

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with any modifications that the Minister
considers appropriate, to any corporation formed or recognised under
the law of a territory outside Singapore.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 49.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            the partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of
            his or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
              Point-to-Point Passenger

              Transport

2020 Ed.      Industry Act 2019                                    72

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

(a) who is —

          (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
              member of its governing body;

          (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

          (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                position to influence the conduct of the
                unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                offence; and

(b) who —

          (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
              effect the commission of the offence;

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the unincorporated
               association or partnership; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the unincorporated association or
                partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

                       Transport

73                     Industry Act 2019                     2020 Ed.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

    (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

    (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
         regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

    “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
       a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
       member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
       and includes —

    (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
         president, secretary or member of a committee of the
         unincorporated association; and

    (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

    “reasonable steps” has the meaning given by section 48(6);

    “state of mind” of a person includes —

    (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
         of the person; and

    (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
         or purpose.

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with any modifications that the Minister
considers appropriate, to any unincorporated association or
partnership formed or recognised under the law of a territory
outside Singapore.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

                        Transport

2020 Ed.                Industry Act 2019                          74

Jurisdiction of courts

 50. Despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, a District Court or a
Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act
and has power to impose the full punishment for the offence.

Service of documents

 51.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by post to the address specified by the
            individual for the service of documents or, if no address is
            so specified, the individual’s residential address or
            business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual; or

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner, secretary or other similar officer
            of the partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the
            partnership’s business address;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

75  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
        partnership’s business address; or

    (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
         address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

    (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
         body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
         limited liability partnership’s manager;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the registered
         office or principal office in Singapore of the body
         corporate or unincorporated association;

    (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the registered
        office or principal office in Singapore of the body
        corporate or unincorporated association; or

    (d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
         corporate or unincorporated association.

 (5) In addition, a document permitted or required by this Act to be
served on an individual, a partnership, a body corporate or an
unincorporated association may be served —

    (a) by giving an electronic notice to the individual,
         partnership, body corporate or unincorporated
         association (called in this section an addressee) by the
         addressee’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
         document is available and how the addressee may use the
         addressee’s chosen means of access to access the
         document’s contents;

    (b) where by the exercise of reasonable diligence, the name of
         any individual or a body of persons to whom the document
         is to be served, or the business address, residential address
         or last email address of the individual or body, cannot be
         ascertained, by posting it on a website maintained by the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

                        Transport

2020 Ed.                Industry Act 2019                          76

          LTA and prescribed by the Minister by notification in the
          Gazette for this purpose; or

          (c) by any other method authorised by the Regulations for the
              service of documents of that kind if the addressee consents
              (expressly or impliedly) to service of a document of that
              kind in that way.

(6) Service of a document takes effect —

(a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
     successful transmission is received, on the day of
     transmission;

(b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
     becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
     it is sent;

          (c) if the document is sent by post, 2 days after the day the
              document was posted (even if it is returned undelivered);
              and

(d) if the document is posted on a website mentioned in
     subsection (5)(b), at the beginning of the day after the date
     on which subsection (5)(b) has been complied with.

 (7) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email or by an electronic notice at the person’s chosen means of
notification, may be effected only with the person’s prior consent
(express or implied) to service in that way.

 (8) In this section, “document” includes a notice or order permitted
or required by this Act to be served.

 (9) However, this section does not apply to documents to be served
in proceedings in court.

(10) In this section —

“business address” means —

          (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
               last known place of business in Singapore; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

77  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
         liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
         last known place of business in Singapore;

    “chosen means of access”, for an addressee on whom is or is to
       be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
       means an electronic means the addressee agrees with the
       person giving or serving the document as the means by which
       the addressee may access that document’s contents;

    “chosen means of notification”, for an addressee on whom is or
       is to be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
       means an electronic means that the addressee nominates to
       the person giving or serving the document as the means by
       which the addressee may be notified that such a document
       has been served on the addressee;

    “last email address” means the last email address given by the
       addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
       document as the email address for the service of documents
       under this Act;

    “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
       place of residence in Singapore.

General exemption

 52. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person
or class of persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act, either
generally or in a particular case and subject to any conditions that the
Minister may impose.

Regulations

 53.—(1) The LTA may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out
or giving effect to this Act.

 (2) In particular, the LTA may make regulations for any of the
following:

       (a) classes of licences;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        78

(b) the form and manner in which, and the time within which,
     an application for the grant of a licence may be made under
     this Act;

          (c) the carrying out of inquiries of applicants for a licence;

(d) the duties of licensees;

          (e) the fees to be paid in respect of applications for the grant of
              a licence and otherwise in connection with the
              administration of this Act, and for the waiver, reduction
              or refund of fees charged;

          (f) the records that must be kept by licensees and the provision
              of returns and other information with respect to the
              provision of point‑to‑point passenger transport services,
              including audio and visual records about the provision of
              the services.

(3) Regulations made under this section may —

(a) prescribe the offences under this Act which may be
     compounded;

(b) provide that any contravention of any provision of the
     Regulations shall be an offence punishable with a fine not
     exceeding $10,000; and

          (c) provide for any saving, transitional, and other
              consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions
              that are necessary or expedient for the purposes of this Act.

Presentation to Parliament

 54. All subsidiary legislation made under this Act must be
presented to Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the
Gazette.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

    Transport

79  Industry Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

    PART 9

    CONSEQUENTIAL AND RELATED
    AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS

    Division 1 — [Omitted as having had effect]

55. [Omitted as having had effect]

            Division 2 — [Omitted as having had effect]
56. [Omitted as having had effect]

                       Division 3 — Motor Vehicles
               (Third‑Party Risks and Compensation) Act

Related amendment to Motor Vehicles (Third‑Party Risks and
Compensation) Act 1960

 57. Section 3(3) of the Motor Vehicles (Third‑Party Risks and
Compensation) Act 1960 is amended by inserting, immediately after
the words “convicted of an offence under this section”, the words
“for driving a motor vehicle in contravention of this section”.

            Division 4 — [Omitted as having had effect]
58. [Omitted as having had effect]
59. [Omitted as having had effect]
60. [Omitted as having had effect]

            Division 5 — [Omitted as having had effect]
61. to 66. [Omitted as having had effect]

            Division 6 — [Omitted as having had effect]
67. [Omitted as having had effect]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        80

          PART 10

          SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS

Saving and transitional provisions

68.—(1) This Act applies to and in relation to —

(a) every taxi service operator licence that is granted, before
     30 October 2020, under Part VA of the Road Traffic
     Act 1961 and is in force immediately before that date; and

(b) every registration as a registered provider of a third‑party
     taxi booking service for journeys by taxi within, or partly
     within, Singapore, under the Third‑Party Taxi Booking
     Service Providers Act 2015 that is in force immediately
     before 30 October 2020,

subject to such adaptations provided in the Schedule.

 (2) For a period of 2 years after 29 May 2020, the Minister may, by
order in the Gazette, amend the Schedule by prescribing any
additional provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent
on the enactment of this section that the Minister may consider
necessary or expedient.

 (3) Nothing in this section or the Schedule affects section 16 of the
Interpretation Act 1965.

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                           Section 68

                  SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
                                           PART 1

                             TAXI SERVICE OPERATORS
 1.—(1) Every taxi service operator licence that —

        (a) is granted, before 30 October 2020, under Part VA of the Road Traffic
             Act 1961; and

        (b) is in force immediately before that date,
is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to continue as if it
is a street‑hail service licence granted under Part 3 of this Act until that licence
expires or is earlier revoked under section 35.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Point-to-Point Passenger

                           Transport

81                         Industry Act 2019                 2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

(2) Every taxi service operator licence that —

    (a) is granted, before 30 October 2020, under Part VA of the Road Traffic
         Act 1961 and authorising the holder of the licence to provide taxi
         booking services to individuals driving taxis owned by the holder of
         that licence; and

    (b) is in force immediately before that date,

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to continue as if it
is a ride‑hail service licence of the relevant class granted under Part 4 of this Act
until that licence expires or is earlier revoked under section 35.

2. Every direction that —

    (a) is issued under section 111G of the Road Traffic Act 1961 to a licensed
         taxi service operator, before 30 October 2020, under Part VA of the
         Road Traffic Act 1961; and

    (b) is in force immediately before that date,

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to continue as if it
is a direction given by the LTA under section 31.

 3. Section 35 does not apply to any proceedings against a taxi service
operator —

    (a) under section 111H of the Road Traffic Act 1961 as in force
         immediately before 30 October 2020; and

    (b) that is pending immediately before that date,

and those proceedings may be continued, and any penalty may be imposed under
section 111H of the Road Traffic Act 1961, as if section 63(3) had not been
enacted.

4. Where an appeal has been made to the Minister —

    (a) under section 111G or 111H of the Road Traffic Act 1961 before
         30 October 2020; and

    (b) the appeal has not been dealt with or disposed of immediately before
         that date,

the appeal may be dealt with under section 111G or 111H (as the case may be) of
the Road Traffic Act 1961 as if section 63(3) had not been enacted.

5. Every code of practice or standard of performance that —

    (a) is specified or issued under section 111D(1)(g) of the Road Traffic
         Act 1961 to a licensed taxi service operator before 30 October 2020;
         and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Point-to-Point Passenger

          Transport

2020 Ed.  Industry Act 2019                                        82

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

(b) is in force immediately before that date,

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to continue as if it
were a code of practice issued by the LTA under section 30(1).

                                           PART 2

            THIRD‑PARTY TAXI BOOKING SERVICE PROVIDERS

 1. Every registration that —

        (a) is made, before 30 October 2020, under the Third‑Party Taxi Booking
             Service Providers Act 2015; and

        (b) is in force immediately before that date,

lapses on that date.

 2. Section 35 does not apply to any proceedings against a registered provider of
a third‑party taxi booking service —

        (a) under section 20 of the Third‑Party Taxi Booking Service Providers
             Act 2015 as in force immediately before 30 October 2020; and

        (b) pending immediately before that date,

and those proceedings may be continued, and any penalty may be imposed under
section 20 of the Third‑Party Taxi Booking Service Providers Act 2015, as if
section 67(2) had not been enacted.

 3. Where an appeal has been made to the Minister —

        (a) under section 22 of the Third‑Party Taxi Booking Service Providers
             Act 2015 before 30 October 2020; and

        (b) the appeal has not been dealt with or disposed of immediately before
             that date,

the appeal may be dealt with under section 22 of the Third‑Party Taxi Booking
Service Providers Act 2015 as if section 67(2) had not been enacted.

                                                                                                        [S 905/2020]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
                   LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

      POINT-TO-POINT PASSENGER TRANSPORT
                     INDUSTRY ACT 2019

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 20 of 2019 — Point-to-Point Passenger Transport Industry Act 2019

Date of First Reading     : 8 July 20198 July 2019))

Date of Second and Third  : 6 August 2019
Readings

Date of commencement      : 29 May 2020
                                30 October 2020

2. G. N. No. S 905/2020 — Point-to-Point Passenger Transport Industry
                                   (Amendment of Schedule — Saving and
                                   Transitional Arrangements) Order 2020

Date of commencement      : 30 October 2020

3. 2020 Revised Edition — Point-to-Point Passenger Transport
                                    Industry Act 2019

Operation                 : 31 December 2021

4. Act 30 of 2024 — Platform Workers Act 2024

Bill                      : 26/2024

First Reading             : 6 August 2024

Second and Third Readings : 10 September 2024

Commencement              : 1 January 2025

5. Act 5 of 2026 — Land Transport and Related Matters Act 2026
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                      : 1/2026

First Reading             : 12 January 2026

Second and Third Readings : 5 February 2026

Commencement              : 4 May 2026

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
.                                 ii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
              COMPARATIVE TABLE

POINT-TO-POINT PASSENGER TRANSPORT
               INDUSTRY ACT 2019

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                  2020 Ed.              Act 20 of 2019
[Omitted as having had effect]
—                               56—(1)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (2)
—
—                               58—(1)
—                                  (2)
—                                  (3)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (4)
—                                  (5)
—
—                               59—(1)
—                                  (2)
—                                  (3)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (4)
—                                  (5)
—                                  (6)
[Omitted as having had effect]
—                               63—(1)
—                                  (2)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (3)
—
                                65—(1)
                                   (2)
                                   (3)

                                67—(1)
                                   (2)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
