THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                EXECUTIVE CONDOMINIUM
                       HOUSING SCHEME
                               ACT 1996

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                                                                   2020 Ed.

         Executive Condominium
             Housing Scheme
                  Act 1996

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
     1.
     2.  Short title
     3.  Interpretation
     4.  Executive condominium scheme
     5.  Appointment of developers
         Restrictions as to purchase under executive condominium
     6.  scheme
     7.  Death of applicant before issue of temporary occupation permit
     8.  Prohibition of transfers of housing accommodation
         Transfer of housing accommodation on death of owner within
     9.  10 years of issue of temporary occupation permit
         Compulsory acquisition of housing accommodation and vesting
   10.   in Board
   11.   Payment of premium to Board by certain purchasers
   12.   Service of orders, etc.
   13.   Protection from liability
   14.   Application of section 4 of Residential Property Act 1976
         Exemption

An Act to establish the executive condominium housing scheme, and
  to provide for matters connected therewith.
                                                                  [7 June 1996]

Short title
 1. This Act is the Executive Condominium Housing Scheme Act

1996.

                                                   1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                Executive Condominium

                Housing Scheme

2020 Ed.        Act 1996                                            2

Interpretation

2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

“Board” means the Housing and Development Board
   established under section 3 of the Housing and
   Development Act 1959;

“commercial property” means any, or a part of any, flat, house or
   tenement which is permitted to be used under the Planning
   Act 1998 or any other written law for the purpose of carrying
   on any business or which is lawfully so used;

“develop” means to construct or cause to be constructed any
   housing accommodation, including any building operations
   in, on, over or under any land for the purpose of erecting any
   housing accommodation;

“developer” means a developer appointed by the Minister under
   section 4(1);

                                                                        [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

“executive condominium scheme” means the housing scheme
   established by the Minister under section 3(1);

“housing accommodation” means a horizontal stratum of the
   whole or part of a building, whether such stratum is on one or
   more levels or is partially or wholly below the surface of the
   ground, which is wholly constructed, adapted or intended for
   human habitation;

“minimum occupation period”, in relation to any housing
   accommodation under the executive condominium scheme,
   means a period of 5 years starting from the date of issue of the
   temporary occupation permit in respect of the housing
   accommodation;

“permanent resident” means a permanent resident of Singapore
   as defined by section 2 of the Immigration Act 1959;

                                                                       [Act 31 of 2023 wef 01/12/2025]

“public housing accommodation” means any housing
   accommodation developed and sold by the Board;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
   Executive Condominium

   Housing Scheme

3  Act 1996                                                  2020 Ed.

   “temporary occupation permit” means a permit issued under
      section 12 of the Building Control Act 1989;

   “transfer” includes a conveyance, sale, assignment, settlement,
      declaration of trust, assent, disposition of whatever nature,
      the vesting of any estate or interest in any housing
      accommodation by an instrument or under a vesting order
      of court and every instrument capable of vesting any estate or
      interest in any housing accommodation upon registration of
      such instrument by the Registrar of Titles, but does not
      include a mortgage, charge or reconveyance.

 (2) If any question arises as to whether any property is commercial
property within the meaning of this Act, a certificate under the hand
of the Minister to the effect that such property is or is not commercial
property is conclusive evidence for all purposes; and every such
certificate is final and shall not be called in question in any court.

 (3) The Minister may, subject to such conditions or restrictions as
the Minister thinks fit, delegate to any person any of the powers
conferred on the Minister under sections 4(1), 7, 8 and 9.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

Executive condominium scheme

 3.—(1) The Minister may establish an executive condominium
scheme to provide housing accommodation to such class of persons
as the Minister may determine.

 (2) The Minister may make regulations for carrying out the
provisions of this Act, including regulations for or with respect to —

       (a) the terms and conditions for the sale of any housing
            accommodation under the executive condominium
            scheme;

       (b) the persons to whom any housing accommodation may be
            sold under an executive condominium scheme, including
            but not limited to the qualifications as to income, the
            minimum size of the family, citizenship of and ownership
            of any other properties by all or any such persons; and

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Executive Condominium

          Housing Scheme

2020 Ed.  Act 1996                                                  4

          (c) prescribing the penalty (such penalty, if unpaid, to
              constitute a debt due to the Government under the
              executive condominium scheme and be recoverable as
              such) to be paid to the Government by the following
              persons for non‑observance or non‑compliance with any of
              the restrictions, conditions or requirements of sections 5
              and 9 in lieu of any action which may be taken against the
              person under any of those provisions:

          (i) any purchaser of a housing accommodation sold
              under the executive condominium scheme;

          (ii) any applicant for such housing accommodation.

Appointment of developers

 4.—(1) The Minister may appoint one or more developers —

       (a) to develop such land as the Minister may specify; and

       (b) to sell any housing accommodation under the executive
            condominium scheme.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (2) An appointment under subsection (1) must be published in the
Gazette.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

Restrictions as to purchase under executive condominium
scheme

 5.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person is not entitled
to purchase any housing accommodation under the executive
condominium scheme if the person or his or her spouse has at any
time —

       (a) between the date of making an application to purchase the
            housing accommodation and the date of issue of the
            temporary occupation permit in respect of the housing
            accommodation, owned or purchased any flat, house,
            building or land or has an estate or interest therein;

       (b) within 30 months immediately before the date of making
            an application to purchase the housing accommodation, or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
   Executive Condominium

   Housing Scheme

5  Act 1996                                                  2020 Ed.

   between the date of such application and the date of issue
   of the temporary occupation permit in respect of the
   housing accommodation, sold any flat, house, building or
   land of which he or she was the owner, or divested himself
   or herself of any estate or interest therein;

   (c) made any misrepresentation of a material fact or false
       statement in a material particular, whether innocently or
       otherwise, relating to the purchase of the housing
       accommodation; or

   (d) between the date of making an application to purchase the
        housing accommodation and the date of issue of the
        temporary occupation permit in respect of the housing
        accommodation, become ineligible to purchase the
        housing accommodation by virtue of any regulations
        made under section 3(2).

 (2) Where any person purchases any housing accommodation
under the executive condominium scheme in contravention of
subsection (1), he or she must not present for registration under the
Land Titles Act 1993 the assurance of the housing accommodation.

 (3) Where, before the date of issue of the temporary occupation
permit in respect of any housing accommodation under the executive
condominium scheme, the developer is satisfied that any purchaser
has contravened subsection (1) or section 7(1)(a), the developer
must —

   (a) serve a written notice upon the purchaser of the housing
        accommodation of its intention to lodge with the Registrar
        of Titles an instrument under subsection (5) for the vesting
        in the developer of the title to, or the estate or interest in,
        that housing accommodation; or

   (b) where no assurance has been registered in favour of the
        purchaser, serve a written notice upon the purchaser of the
        housing accommodation of its intention to terminate the
        sale and purchase agreement.

 (4) Any purchaser who is aggrieved by a notice served under
subsection (3) may, within 14 days after service of the notice, appeal

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Executive Condominium

          Housing Scheme

2020 Ed.  Act 1996                                                  6

to the Minister whose decision is final and shall not be called in
question in any court.

 (5) Where an appeal has been made to the Minister under
subsection (4), the developer must not proceed to lodge any
instrument for the vesting of the title to, or the estate or interest in,
the housing accommodation in itself until the appeal has been
disposed of.

 (6) The Registrar of Titles must register any instrument lodged
under subsection (5) without being concerned to inquire into its
regularity or validity, and upon its registration —

(a) the title to, or the estate or interest in, the housing
     accommodation vests in the developer without further
     assurance free from all encumbrances (except for such
     subsisting covenants, conditions or restrictions (if any) as
     may be binding upon the developer); and

(b) the Registrar of Titles must cancel the registration of any
     mortgage, charge or assurance thereby overreached and
     any caveat protecting a mortgage, charge or assurance
     registered or notified on the land-register.

 (7) Where the developer has lodged any instrument under
subsection (5) in respect of any housing accommodation —

(a) the developer must forfeit any moneys paid or deposited in
     respect of the purchase of the housing accommodation; and

(b) such moneys forfeited, less any administrative and legal
     costs reasonably incurred by the developer in connection
     with the sale and resale of the housing accommodation,
     must be paid to the Government.

 (8) The Government must, after deducting a penalty not exceeding
$10,000 as may be prescribed, distribute the remainder of the moneys
mentioned in subsection (7)(b) according to the order of priority
prescribed under section 9(5).

 (9) Nothing in subsection (1) disqualifies a person from purchasing
any housing accommodation under the executive condominium
scheme if the person or his or her spouse has purchased or acquired,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
   Executive Condominium

   Housing Scheme

7  Act 1996                                                  2020 Ed.

with the Minister’s prior written consent, any commercial property
not exceeding $250,000 in value, or such higher value as the Minister
may allow, at the time of purchase.

Death of applicant before issue of temporary occupation
permit

 6. Where any applicant for the purchase of any housing
accommodation under the executive condominium scheme dies
before the issue of the temporary occupation permit in respect of the
housing accommodation, the developer must, unless the Minister
otherwise directs, cancel the application and terminate the sale and
purchase agreement (if any), and all moneys paid or deposited, less
any administrative and legal costs reasonably incurred by the
developer, must be refunded to the person or persons entitled to the
moneys.

Prohibition of transfers of housing accommodation

 7.—(1) Except with the Minister’s prior written consent, a person
must not —

       (a) between the date an application to purchase any housing
            accommodation is made under the executive condominium
            scheme and the date of issue of the temporary occupation
            permit in respect of the housing accommodation; or

       (b) within the minimum occupation period,

transfer the housing accommodation, or any estate or interest therein,
to any other person, whether for consideration or by way of gift inter
vivos or otherwise, or create any trust for sale in respect of the
housing accommodation, or any estate or interest therein, in favour of
any other person.

 (2) Any transfer made or trust created in contravention of
subsection (1) is void.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
             Executive Condominium

             Housing Scheme

2020 Ed.     Act 1996                                               8

Transfer of housing accommodation on death of owner within
10 years of issue of temporary occupation permit

 8.—(1) The transmission on the death of the owner, whether testate
or intestate, or any transfer by the personal representatives of a
deceased owner of a housing accommodation under the executive
condominium scheme within 10 years of the date of issue of the
temporary occupation permit in respect of the housing
accommodation must not be registered under the provisions of the
Land Titles Act 1993 without the Minister’s prior written consent.

 (2) Where the Minister refuses to give his or her consent under
subsection (1), the Minister may lodge an instrument with the
Registrar of Titles to have the housing accommodation vested in the
Board.

(3) Where —

(a) no representation has been taken out under the will or on
     the intestacy of a deceased owner of a housing
     accommodation under the executive condominium
     scheme within 12 months from the death of the owner;

(b) representation has been taken out but the personal
     representatives do not apply for the Minister’s consent
     for the transmission or transfer of the housing
     accommodation within 6 months from the date of
     representation; or

          (c) the Minister’s consent for the transmission or transfer of
              the housing accommodation has been obtained but the
              transmission or transfer of the housing accommodation is
              not effected within the period specified by the Minister,

the Minister may lodge an instrument with the Registrar of Titles to
have the housing accommodation vested in the Board.

 (4) Where the Minister decides to lodge an instrument under
subsection (2) or (3) to have the housing accommodation vested in the
Board, the Minister must —

(a) serve a written notice on the personal representatives of the
     deceased owner of, and on all persons known or believed to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
   Executive Condominium

   Housing Scheme

9  Act 1996                                                  2020 Ed.

   have an interest or estate in, the housing accommodation;
   and

   (b) in the case where no representation is taken out, serve a
        written notice on all persons known or believed to have an
        interest or estate in the housing accommodation and affix a
        copy of the notice on a conspicuous part of the housing
        accommodation,

of the Minister’s intention to lodge with the Registrar of Titles an
instrument of vesting under subsection (2) or (3) and of the
compensation to be paid by the Board therefor and the date on
which the instrument will be lodged, not being a date earlier than
28 days after the date the notice is served.

 (5) The Registrar of Titles must register any instrument lodged
under subsection (2) or (3) without being concerned to inquire into its
regularity or validity, and upon its registration —

   (a) the title to, or the estate or interest in, the housing
        accommodation vests in the Board without further
        assurance free from all encumbrances (except for such
        subsisting covenants, conditions or restrictions (if any) as
        may be binding on the Board); and

   (b) the Registrar of Titles must cancel the registration of any
        mortgage, charge or assurance thereby overreached and
        any caveat protecting a mortgage, charge or assurance
        registered or notified on the land‑register.

 (6) On the expiry of a period of 28 days after the date of service of
the notice mentioned in subsection (4), where —

   (a) the personal representatives do not consent to receive the
        compensation;

   (b) representation has not been taken out under a will or
        intestacy of the deceased owner; or

   (c) there are conflicting claims to the compensation to be paid
       by the Board,

the Board must apply to the General Division of the High Court by an
originating application without notice, supported by an affidavit, for

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Executive Condominium

                     Housing Scheme

2020 Ed.             Act 1996                                       10

an order to deposit the amount of the compensation in court and,
despite anything to the contrary in the Rules of Court for the time
being in force, the General Division of the High Court may make such
an order.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (7) The amount of compensation to be paid by the Board for any
housing accommodation vested in the Board under this section and
the order of priority for the payment of such compensation shall be
prescribed by the Minister.

(8) The Board may —

(a) deduct, from any compensation payable in respect of any
     housing accommodation vested in the Board under this
     section, any administrative and legal costs reasonably
     incurred; and

(b) withhold such compensation until the Board has taken
     possession of the housing accommodation.

 (9) Where any housing accommodation has been vested in the
Board under this section, the Board may proceed to take possession of
the housing accommodation on the expiry of a period of 30 days after
the date a notice is served on the persons mentioned in
subsection (4)(a) and (b) and if any of the officers or agents of the
Board is opposed or impeded in taking possession under this section
of any housing accommodation, the Board may take such measures as
are necessary —

(a) to have the occupiers evicted from the housing
     accommodation and to enforce the surrender of the
     same; and

(b) to remove all things and other movable property found in
     the housing accommodation.

 (10) Any housing accommodation vested in the Board under this
section or section 9 shall be sold by the Board to such person and for
such consideration as the Minister may determine.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Executive Condominium

    Housing Scheme

11  Act 1996                                                  2020 Ed.

Compulsory acquisition of housing accommodation and
vesting in Board

 9.—(1) Where any housing accommodation under the executive
condominium scheme has been purchased, the Minister may direct
the Board to compulsorily acquire the housing accommodation if the
Minister is satisfied that —

    (a) any purchaser thereof or his or her spouse has ceased to
         occupy the housing accommodation within the minimum
         occupation period;

    (b) subject to subsection (10), any purchaser thereof or his or
         her spouse has at any time acquired, by operation of law or
         otherwise, any title to, or an estate or interest in, any flat,
         house, building or land;

    (c) the housing accommodation has been used otherwise than
        as a housing accommodation within the minimum
        occupation period;

    (d) any purchaser thereof has assigned, underlet or parted with
         the possession of the housing accommodation within the
         minimum occupation period without obtaining the
         Minister’s prior written consent;

    (e) any purchaser thereof has failed to perform or observe any
        term or condition contained in the agreement for the sale
        and purchase of the housing accommodation after the
        Board or the developer has served him or her a written
        notice drawing his or her attention to the non‑performance
        or non‑observance of such term or condition;

    (f) any purchaser thereof has made a misleading or false
        statement in his or her application for the purchase of the
        housing accommodation;

    (g) any purchaser thereof has made a misrepresentation of a
         material fact, whether innocently or otherwise, relating to
         the purchase of the housing accommodation;

    (h) any purchaser thereof has contravened section 7(1)(b);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Executive Condominium

                     Housing Scheme

2020 Ed.             Act 1996                                       12

          (i) any purchaser thereof has, within the minimum occupation
              period, ceased to be a citizen of Singapore; or

          (j) any purchaser thereof has failed to pay to the Board any
              premium under section 10.

 (2) Where the Minister has made a direction under subsection (1) to
compulsorily acquire a housing accommodation under the executive
condominium scheme, the Board must serve a written notice on —

(a) the owner of the housing accommodation; and

(b) all persons known or believed to be interested in claiming
     all or any part of the compensation to be paid for the
     housing accommodation,

stating the Board’s intention to acquire the housing accommodation
and the compensation to be paid therefor.

(3) The Board may —

(a) lodge an instrument with the Registrar of Titles for the
     vesting in the Board of the title to, or the estate or interest
     in, the housing accommodation on the expiry of a period of
     28 days after the date the notice mentioned in
     subsection (2) is served; and

(b) in the case where no assurance has been registered in
     favour of the owner, serve a written notice on the owner of
     the housing accommodation to terminate the sale and
     purchase agreement and to repossess the housing
     accommodation.

 (4) The Registrar of Titles must register any instrument lodged
under subsection (3) without being concerned to inquire into its
regularity or validity, and upon its registration —

(a) the title to, or the estate or interest in, the housing
     accommodation vests in the Board free from all
     encumbrances (except for such subsisting covenants,
     conditions or restrictions (if any) as may be binding on
     the Board); and

(b) the Registrar of Titles must cancel the registration of any
     mortgage, charge or assurance thereby overreached and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                 Executive Condominium

                 Housing Scheme

13               Act 1996                                     2020 Ed.

    any caveat protecting a mortgage, charge or assurance
    registered or notified on the land‑register.

(5) The Board —

    (a) may deduct, from any compensation payable under this
         section, any administrative and legal costs reasonably
         incurred; and

    (b) must hold the remainder in trust to be paid according to the
         order of priority prescribed by the Minister.

 (6) The amount of compensation to be paid by the Board for any
housing accommodation compulsorily acquired by the Board under
this section shall be prescribed by the Minister.

(7) Where —

    (a) any person entitled to any compensation payable under this
         section —

    (i) refuses to accept it; or

    (ii) cannot with due diligence be found; or

    (b) there is any dispute as to the apportionment of the
         compensation,

the Board must apply to the General Division of the High Court by an
originating application without notice, supported by an affidavit, for
an order to deposit the whole or a part of the amount of compensation
in court and, despite anything to the contrary in the Rules of Court for
the time being in force, the General Division of the High Court may
make such an order.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (8) Where any housing accommodation has been vested in the
Board under this section, the Board may proceed to take possession of
the housing accommodation on the expiry of a period of 30 days after
the date a notice is served on the owner thereof and if any of the
officers or agents of the Board is opposed or impeded in taking
possession under this section of any housing accommodation, the
Board may take such measures as are necessary —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Executive Condominium

          Housing Scheme

2020 Ed.  Act 1996                                                  14

(a) to have the occupiers evicted from the housing
     accommodation and to enforce the surrender of the
     same; and

(b) to remove all things and other movable property found in
     the housing accommodation.

 (9) For the purpose of ascertaining whether subsection (1) has been
contravened, the Minister may direct the Board to enter any housing
accommodation under the executive condominium scheme at any
reasonable time upon production of its authority in writing.

 (10) Subsection (1)(b) does not apply to a purchaser of any housing
accommodation or to his or her spouse who has purchased or
acquired, with the Minister’s prior written consent, any commercial
property not exceeding $250,000 in value, or such higher value as the
Minister may allow, at the time of purchase.

 (11) For the purpose of this section, “purchaser” includes any
sub‑purchaser unless the context otherwise requires.

Payment of premium to Board by certain purchasers

 10. Where any person who purchases any housing accommodation
under the executive condominium scheme had previously purchased,
jointly or otherwise, any public housing accommodation from the
Board, the person must pay to the Board a premium of such amount as
the Board may determine.

Service of orders, etc.

 11.—(1) Service of any order, notice, direction or a copy thereof
required or authorised by this Act or any regulations made under this
Act to be served is deemed to have been effected —

       (a) in the case of a natural person — if sent by registered post
            to his or her last known address, or if it is affixed on a
            conspicuous part of the housing accommodation described
            in such order, notice, direction or copy; and

       (b) in the case of a company, a society, an association or other
            organisation or body — if sent by registered post to its
            postal address, its registered office in Singapore or its last

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Executive Condominium

    Housing Scheme

15  Act 1996                                                  2020 Ed.

    known place of business in Singapore, or if it is affixed on
    a conspicuous part of the housing accommodation
    described in such order, notice, direction or copy,

and in either case service is deemed to be made, in the case of service
by registered letter, at the time that such registered letter would in the
ordinary course be delivered.

 (2) Any order, notice, direction or a copy thereof required or
authorised by this Act or any regulations made under this Act to be
served on the owner of a housing accommodation under the executive
condominium scheme is deemed to be properly addressed if
addressed by the description of “the owner” of the housing
accommodation without further name or description.

Protection from liability

 12. No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie or be instituted or
maintained in any court for or on account of or in respect of anything
which is in good faith done or intended to be done by the
Government, the Board, any public officer or other person acting
under the direction of the Minister in the execution or purported
execution of this Act.

Application of section 4 of Residential Property Act 1976

 13.—(1) Despite section 4 of the Residential Property Act 1976, a
housing accommodation under the executive condominium scheme
must not be transferred to any person who is not a citizen of
Singapore except in the following circumstances:

       (a) to any permanent resident on the expiry of the minimum
            occupation period;

       (b) to any person 5 years after the expiry of the minimum
            occupation period.

 (2) Any transfer made in contravention of subsection (1) is void.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
           Executive Condominium

           Housing Scheme

2020 Ed.   Act 1996                                                 16

Exemption

 14. The Minister may, subject to such terms or conditions as the
Minister may impose, exempt any person or class of persons from all
or any of the provisions of this Act or any regulations made under this
Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

               EXECUTIVE CONDOMINIUM
                     HOUSING SCHEME
                            ACT 1996

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 10 of 1996 — Executive Condominium Housing Scheme Act 1996

Bill                  : 4/1996

First Reading         : 18 January 1996

Second and Third Readings : 27 February 1996

Commencement          : 7 June 1996

2. 1997 Revised Edition — Executive Condominium Housing Scheme Act
                                    (Chapter 99A)

Operation             : 30 May 1997

3. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 54 of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 54 of the Schedule)

4. 2020 Revised Edition — Executive Condominium
                                    Housing Scheme
                                    Act 1996

Operation             : 31 December 2021

5. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
   (Amendments made by Part 7 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 18/2021

First Reading         : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
               ii

Commencement   : 1 April 2022

6. Act 5 of 2025 — Electronic Gazette and Legislation Act 2025
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 47/2024

First Reading  : 11 November 2024

Second and Third Readings : 7 January 2025

Commencement   : 9 March 2025

7. Act 31 of 2023 — Immigration (Amendment) Act 2023
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 26/2023

First Reading  : 2 August 2023

Second and Third Readings : 18 September 2023

Commencement   : 1 December 2025

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    COMPARATIVE TABLE

EXECUTIVE CONDOMINIUM
      HOUSING SCHEME
             ACT 1996

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.          1997 Ed.
5—(7) and (8)
                           5—(7)
   (9)                        (8)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
