THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                HOSTAGE-TAKING ACT 2010

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
                                                                 2020 Ed.

         Hostage-Taking Act 2010

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

     1.  Short title
     2.  Interpretation
     3.  Hostage-taking
     4.  Extraterritoriality
     5.  Information relating to hostage-taking offence
     6.  Power to freeze bank account
     7.  Power to order inspection of customer information
     8.  Power to obtain information
     9.  No prosecution without Public Prosecutor’s consent
   10.   Protection of informers
   11.   Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
   12.   Power of arrest
   13.   Assistance in criminal matters for Convention offences
   14.   Extradition

An Act to give effect to the International Convention against the
  Taking of Hostages and for matters connected therewith.
                                                         [21 November 2010]

Short title
 1. This Act is the Hostage-Taking Act 2010.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “bank” means a bank or merchant bank licensed under the
         Banking Act 1970, and includes a finance company licensed
         under the Finance Companies Act 1967;
      “Convention” means the International Convention against the
         Taking of Hostages adopted by the General Assembly of the
         United Nations on 17 December 1979;

                                                           1

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Hostage-Taking Act 2010                                  2

“Convention country” means a foreign country that is a Party to
   the Convention;

“country” includes a State or territory, as the case may be;

“hostage-taking offence” means —

          (a) the offence under section 3; or

          (b) an abetment of, or a conspiracy or attempt to commit,
               the offence under section 3.

                                                                                                  [1/2020]

Hostage-taking

 3.—(1) Any person (A) who —

       (a) seizes or detains another person (B); and

       (b) threatens to cause death or hurt to B or to continue to detain
            B, or by A’s conduct gives rise to a reasonable
            apprehension that B may be put to death or hurt or may
            continue to be detained, or causes death or hurt to B,

in order to compel —

       (c) the Government, the government of another State or an
            international intergovernmental organisation to do or
            abstain from doing any act shall be guilty of an offence,
            and shall be punished with death or imprisonment for life,
            and shall, if A is not sentenced to death, also be liable to
            fine or to caning; or

       (d) any other person (C) to do or abstain from doing any act
            shall be guilty of an offence, and shall be punished with
            imprisonment for a term which may extend to 15 years, and
            shall also be liable to fine or to caning.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to any act which is an offence
under section 3 of the Geneva Conventions Act 1973.

Extraterritoriality

 4. Every person who, outside Singapore, commits an act that, if
committed in Singapore, would constitute a hostage-taking offence is

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
3  Hostage-Taking Act 2010                                  2020 Ed.

deemed to commit the act in Singapore and may be proceeded
against, charged, tried and punished accordingly.

Information relating to hostage-taking offence

 5.—(1) Every person in Singapore who has information which he
or she knows or believes may be of material assistance —

       (a) in preventing the commission by another person of a
            hostage-taking offence; or

       (b) in securing the apprehension, prosecution or conviction of
            another person, in Singapore, for a hostage-taking offence,

and who fails to disclose the information immediately to a police
officer shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 5 years or to both.

 (2) No criminal or civil proceedings shall lie against a person for
any disclosure made in good faith under this section.

 (3) A person who makes a disclosure in good faith under this
section is not to be treated as being in breach of any restriction upon
the disclosure of information imposed by law, contract or rules of
professional conduct.

Power to freeze bank account

 6.—(1) The Public Prosecutor may, where he or she is satisfied that
it is likely that the money for the payment of ransom for the release of
any person may be paid out of any account with any bank, by order
direct any bank not to pay any money out of, nor to pay cheques
drawn on, such account for a specified period not exceeding one
month.

 (2) A bank which complies with an order under subsection (1) is
relieved of any liability to any other person in respect of the payment
prohibited by that order.

 (3) A bank which fails to comply with an order under subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Hostage-Taking Act 2010                                  4

Power to order inspection of customer information

 7.—(1) Despite anything to the contrary in any other written law,
the Public Prosecutor may, if he or she considers that any evidence of
the commission by a person of —

(a) a hostage-taking offence; or

(b) an act which is an offence by virtue of section 4,

is likely to be found in any document containing customer
information relating to that person, to the spouse, son or daughter
of that person or to a person reasonably believed by the Public
Prosecutor to be a trustee or agent for that person, by order authorise
any police officer of or above the rank of assistant superintendent
named in the order to inspect any document of a bank specified in the
order.

 (2) The police officer so authorised may, at all reasonable times,
enter the premises of the bank specified in the order and inspect the
documents kept therein and may take copies of any relevant entry in
any such document.

 (3) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to produce
any document demanded by the police officer which is in his or her
possession or control shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (4) The Public Prosecutor may delegate to a Deputy Public
Prosecutor or the Commissioner of Police the power of the Public
Prosecutor under this section, except the power of delegation
conferred by this subsection.

 (5) In this section, “customer information” has the meaning given
by section 40A of the Banking Act 1970.

Power to obtain information

 8.—(1) In the course of any investigation into or proceedings
relating to a hostage-taking offence by a person or an act by a person
which is an offence by virtue of section 4, the Public Prosecutor may
by order —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
5  Hostage-Taking Act 2010                                  2020 Ed.

   (a) require the person to furnish a sworn statement in writing
        enumerating all movable or immovable property belonging
        to or possessed by that person and by the spouse, son or
        daughter of that person, and specifying the date on which
        each of the properties enumerated was acquired and
        whether it was acquired by way of purchase, gift,
        bequest, inheritance or otherwise;

   (b) require the person to furnish a sworn statement in writing
        of any money or other property paid or disposed of by him
        or her during such period as may be specified in the order;

   (c) require any other person to furnish a sworn statement in
       writing enumerating all movable or immovable property
       belonging to or possessed by that person where the Public
       Prosecutor has reasonable grounds to believe that that
       information may be relevant to the investigation or
       proceedings;

   (d) require the Comptroller of Income Tax to furnish all
        information available to the Comptroller relating to the
        affairs of the person or of the spouse, son or daughter of the
        person and to produce or furnish any document or a
        certified copy of any document specified in the order
        relating to that person or the spouse, son or daughter of that
        person which is in the possession or under the control of
        the Comptroller;

   (e) require the person in charge of any ministry or department
       of the Government or the president, chairperson, manager
       or chief executive officer of any statutory board to furnish,
       as specified in the order, any document or a certified copy
       of any document which is in his or her possession or under
       his or her control; and

   (f) require a bank to give copies of the accounts of the person
       or of the spouse, son or daughter of the person with the
       bank.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), every person to whom an order is
given under subsection (1) must, despite any obligation of secrecy

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Hostage-Taking Act 2010                                  6

imposed under any written law or rule of law, comply with the terms
of the order within such time as may be specified in the order.

 (3) Subsection (2) does not apply to a person mentioned in
subsection (1)(e) if the Minister responsible for the ministry or
department of the Government or for the statutory board (as the case
may be) certifies that it would be against the interests of national
security for the contents of the document to be disclosed.

 (4) To avoid doubt, any disclosure of the contents of a document to
the Minister for the purposes of the Minister’s certification under
subsection (3) does not constitute a breach of any obligation of
secrecy imposed under any written law or rule of law.

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

 (6) Any person who, in purported compliance with an order under
subsection (1), furnishes any information, statement or document
known to him or her to be false or misleading in a material particular,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

No prosecution without Public Prosecutor’s consent

 9. A prosecution under this Act must not be instituted except by or
with the consent of the Public Prosecutor.

Protection of informers

 10.—(1) Except as provided in subsection (3), a witness in any civil
or criminal proceedings must not be obliged —

       (a) to disclose the name or address of any informer who has
            given information with respect to an offence under this
            Act; or

       (b) to answer any question if the answer to the question would
            lead, or would tend to lead, to the discovery of the name or
            address of any informer.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
7  Hostage-Taking Act 2010                                  2020 Ed.

 (2) If any book, document or paper which is in evidence or liable to
inspection in any civil or criminal proceedings contains any entry in
which any informer is named or described or which may lead to the
informer’s discovery, the court must cause those entries to be
concealed from view or to be obliterated so far as may be necessary to
protect the informer from discovery.

 (3) If —

   (a) in any proceedings for an offence under this Act, the court,
        after full inquiry into the case, is satisfied that an informer
        wilfully made a material statement which he or she knew
        or believed to be false or did not believe to be true; or

   (b) in any other proceedings, the court is of the opinion that
        justice cannot be fully done between the parties to the
        proceedings without the disclosure of the name of an
        informer,

the court may permit inquiry and require full disclosure concerning
the informer.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 11.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer; or

       (b) to be attributable to any act or default on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with his or her functions of management as if
he or she were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            a partner; or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.     Hostage-Taking Act 2010                               8

(b) to be attributable to any act or default on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by a limited
liability partnership is proved to have been committed with the
consent or connivance of, or to be attributable to any neglect on the
part of, a partner or manager of the limited liability partnership, the
partner or manager as well as the partnership shall be guilty of that
offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.

 (5) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
     its governing body; or

(b) to be attributable to any act or default on the part of such an
     officer or a member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(6) In this section —

“body corporate” and “partnership” exclude a limited liability
   partnership within the meaning of the Limited Liability
   Partnerships Act 2005;

“officer” —

          (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
               member of the committee of management, chief
               executive officer, manager, secretary or other similar
               officer of the body corporate and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity; and

          (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
               than a partnership), means the president, the
               secretary, or any member of the committee of the
               unincorporated association, or any person holding a

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
9  Hostage-Taking Act 2010                                  2020 Ed.

   position analogous to that of the president, secretary
   or member of such a committee and includes any
   person purporting to act in any such capacity;

   “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with such modifications as the Minister
considers appropriate, to any body corporate, limited liability
partnership or unincorporated association formed or recognised
under the law of a territory outside Singapore.

Power of arrest

 12. A police officer may arrest without warrant any person whom
he or she reasonably believes has committed an offence under this
Act.

Assistance in criminal matters for Convention offences

 13.—(1) For the purposes of providing assistance under Part 3 of
the Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act 2000 to a foreign
country for a criminal matter involving a relevant offence of that
country, the relevant offence is deemed not to be an offence of a
political character.

 (2) In this section —

      “criminal matter” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
         Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act 2000;

      “relevant offence”, in relation to a foreign country, means an
         offence against the law of that country that consists of or
         includes conduct which, if it had occurred in Singapore,
         would have constituted a hostage-taking offence.

Extradition

 14.—(1) Every hostage-taking offence is deemed to be an
extradition offence under the Extradition Act 1968.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2022 wef 01/07/2022]

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), where no extradition treaty is in force
between Singapore and a Convention country, a notification in the

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.     Hostage-Taking Act 2010                               10

Gazette under section 4 of the Extradition Act 1968 may be made
applying that Act as if there were an extradition treaty between
Singapore and that country.

 (3) Where the Extradition Act 1968 is applied under subsection (2),
that Act has effect in relation to that country as if the only extradition
offences under that Act were the relevant offences of that country.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2022 wef 01/07/2022]

 (4) Subsection (3) does not affect any other notification made under
section 4 of the Extradition Act 1968.

(5) Where —

(a) an extradition treaty is in force between Singapore and a
     Convention country; and

(b) the treaty does not provide for the extradition of persons
     accused of or convicted of a relevant offence of that
     country,

a notification in the Gazette under section 4 of the Extradition
Act 1968 may be made applying that Act in relation to that country as
if the treaty provided for the matter referred to in paragraph (b).

 (6) Where a notification mentioned in subsection (5) is made, any
limitation, condition, exception or qualification specified in —

(a) any other notification made under section 4 of the
     Extradition Act 1968; or

(b) any Order in Council mentioned in section 3 of that Act,

in relation to that country is, to the extent that it prevents the relevant
offence from being considered an extradition offence in relation to
that country, to be disregarded in the application of that Act in relation
to that country.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2022 wef 01/07/2022]

 (7) For the purposes of the Extradition Act 1968 —

(a) any act, wherever committed, which is a relevant offence
     of a Convention country in the case of which that Act has
     been applied by a notification in the Gazette made under
     section 4 of that Act, is deemed to be an offence within the
     jurisdiction of that country; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
11  Hostage-Taking Act 2010                                  2020 Ed.

       (b) any such offence is deemed not to be an offence of a
            political character.

 (8) In this section, “relevant offence”, in relation to a Convention
country, means an offence against the law of, or of part of, that
country where the act or omission constituting the offence or the
equivalent act or omission would, if it took place in Singapore —

    (a) constitute a hostage-taking offence; or

    (b) be such an offence if the description concerned contained a
         reference to any intent or state of mind on the part of the
         person committing the offence, or to any circumstance of
         aggravation, necessary to constitute the offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
               HOSTAGE-TAKING ACT 2010

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 19 of 2010 — Hostage-Taking Act 2010

Bill           : 13/2010

First Reading  : 19 July 2010

Second and Third Readings : 16 August 2010

Commencement   : 21 November 2010

2. 2011 Revised Edition — Hostage-Taking Act (Chapter 126C)

Operation      : 31 December 2011

3. Act 1 of 2020 — Banking (Amendment) Act 2020
   (Amendments made by section 52 of the above Act)

Bill           : 35/2019

First Reading  : 4 November 2019

Second and Third Readings : 6 January 2020

Commencement   : 1 July 2021 (section 52)

4. 2020 Revised Edition — Hostage-Taking Act 2010

Operation      : 31 December 2021

5. Act 17 of 2022 — Extradition (Amendment) Act 2022
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 10/2022

First Reading  : 7 March 2022

Second and Third Readings : 4 April 2022

Commencement   : 1 July 2022

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
                             ii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
