THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
            SINGAPORE EXAMINATIONS AND
                     ASSESSMENT BOARD
                               ACT 2003

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
                                                                    2020 Ed.

Singapore Examinations and
      Assessment Board
           Act 2003

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                        PART 2

                ESTABLISHMENT, INCORPORATION AND
                          CONSTITUTION OF BOARD

 3. Establishment and incorporation of Singapore Examinations and
         Assessment Board

 4. Common seal
 5. Membership of Board
 6. Chairperson may delegate functions
 7. Term of office of members
 8. Temporary Chairperson, etc.
 9. Meetings and proceedings of Board
10. [Repealed]

                                        PART 3

            FUNCTIONS, DUTIES AND POWERS OF BOARD

11. Functions and duties of Board
12. Powers of Board
12A. Validation of collection of charge for late payment of fee or

         commission
13. Directions by Minister
14. Committees
15. Delegation of powers

                                                      1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
                Singapore Examinations and

                Assessment Board

2020 Ed.        Act 2003                                             2

                PART 4

          PROVISIONS RELATING TO STAFF

Section   Chief executive, officers and employees, etc.
          Protection from personal liability
   16.    [Repealed]
   17.
   18.

                                        PART 5

                            FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

19. Financial year
20. [Repealed]
21. Funds of Board
22. Grants
23. Power to borrow
24. Issue of shares, etc.
25. Bank accounts
26. Application of moneys
27. Power of investment
28. [Repealed]
29. [Repealed]
30. [Repealed]
31. [Repealed]

                                        PART 6

                    TRANSFER OF PROPERTY, ASSETS,
                       LIABILITIES AND EMPLOYEES

32. Transfer to Board of property, assets and liabilities
33. Transfer of employees
34. Pension rights, etc., of Government employees to be preserved
35. No benefits in respect of abolition or reorganisation of office
36. Existing contracts
37. Continuation and completion of disciplinary proceedings and

         other legal proceedings
38. Misconduct or neglect of duty by employee before transfer

                       PART 7
                MISCELLANEOUS

39. [Repealed]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
         Singapore Examinations and

         Assessment Board

3        Act 2003                                             2020 Ed.

Section  Symbol or representation of Board
         Preservation of secrecy
   40.   Corporate offenders and unincorporated associations
   41.   Composition of offences
   42.   Amendment of Schedule
   43.   Regulations
   44.   The Schedule — National Examinations
   45.

An Act to establish and incorporate the Singapore Examinations and
  Assessment Board, to provide for its functions, duties and powers,
  and for matters connected therewith.

                                                                 [1 April 2004]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Singapore Examinations and Assessment Board
Act 2003.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “assessment” means any test, examination or other method of
         assessing the level of proficiency, aptitude, skill, knowledge
         or understanding of a person in any subject matter, other than
         any of the national examinations;
      “Board” means the Singapore Examinations and Assessment
         Board established under section 3;
      “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Board, and
         includes a temporary Chairperson of the Board;
      “chief executive” means the chief executive of the Board, and
         includes any individual acting in that capacity;
      “Examinations Division” means the department in the Ministry
         of Education known as the Examinations Division;

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
          Singapore Examinations and

          Assessment Board

2020 Ed.  Act 2003                                                 4

“member” means a member of the Board, and includes a
   temporary member of the Board;

“national examinations” means the examinations specified in
   the Schedule.

                                                                                                    [5/2018]

                                    PART 2

            ESTABLISHMENT, INCORPORATION AND
                      CONSTITUTION OF BOARD

Establishment and incorporation of Singapore Examinations
and Assessment Board

 3. A body called the Singapore Examinations and Assessment
Board is established, which is a body corporate with perpetual
succession and is by that name capable of —

       (a) suing and being sued;

       (b) acquiring, owning, holding and developing, or disposing of
            property, both movable and immovable; and

       (c) doing and suffering any other acts or things that bodies
            corporate may lawfully do and suffer.

Common seal

 4.—(1) The Board must have a common seal and the seal may be
broken, changed, altered or made anew as the Board thinks fit.

 (2) All deeds and other documents requiring the seal of the Board
must be sealed with the common seal of the Board.

 (3) All instruments to which the common seal is affixed must be
signed by any 2 members generally or specially authorised by the
Board for the purpose or by one member and the chief executive.

 (4) The Board may, by resolution or otherwise in writing, appoint
any officer of the Board or any other agent either generally or in any
particular case to execute or sign on behalf of the Board any
agreement or other instrument not under seal in relation to any matter
coming within the powers of the Board.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
   Singapore Examinations and

   Assessment Board

5  Act 2003                                                 2020 Ed.

 (5) All courts, judges and persons acting judicially are to take
judicial notice of the common seal of the Board affixed to any
document and presume that it was duly affixed.

Membership of Board
 5.—(1) The Board consists of —
       (a) a Chairperson; and
       (b) not less than 6 but not more than 9 other members,

all of whom are to be appointed by the Minister.
 (2) The Minister may appoint the chief executive to be a member.

Chairperson may delegate functions

 6. The Chairperson may, in writing, authorise any member to
exercise any power or perform any function conferred on the
Chairperson by or under this Act.

Term of office of members

 7.—(1) A member holds office on such conditions and for such
term, not exceeding 3 years, as the Minister specifies in the
appointment, and may be re‑appointed.

 (2) Any member may, at any time, by written notice to the Minister
resign from office.

 (3) The Minister may, at any time, revoke the appointment of any
member without giving any reason.

 (4) If a member dies or resigns or has his or her appointment
revoked, the Minister may appoint any person to fill the vacancy for
the remainder of the term for which the vacating member was
appointed.

 (5) The Board is to pay to the Chairperson and other members, out
of the funds of the Board, such salaries, fees and allowances as the
Minister may determine.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
          Singapore Examinations and

          Assessment Board

2020 Ed.  Act 2003                                                 6

Temporary Chairperson, etc.

 8. The Minister may appoint any person to be a temporary
Chairperson or temporary member during the temporary incapacity
from illness or otherwise, or during the temporary absence from
Singapore, of the Chairperson or any member, as the case may be.

Meetings and proceedings of Board

 9.—(1) At all meetings of the Board, a simple majority of the
members forms a quorum.

 (2) The Chairperson presides at all meetings of the Board and, in
the Chairperson’s absence, the members present must elect one of
their number to preside.

 (3) Meetings of the Board must be held at such times and places as
the Chairperson may determine.

 (4) All questions arising at any meeting must be decided by a
majority of votes of the members present and voting.

 (5) At any meeting of the Board, the Chairperson has a deliberative
vote and, in the case of an equality of votes, the Chairperson or, in the
Chairperson’s absence, the member presiding has a casting vote.

 (6) The validity of any proceedings of the Board is not affected by
any vacancy among its members or by any defect in the appointment
of any member.

 (7) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018, the Board may regulate its own proceedings.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 10. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

                                    PART 3
        FUNCTIONS, DUTIES AND POWERS OF BOARD
Functions and duties of Board
 11.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the functions and
duties of the Board are —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
   Singapore Examinations and

   Assessment Board

7  Act 2003                                                 2020 Ed.

   (a) to develop and devise national examinations which would
        support and promote the goals and objectives of
        Singapore’s education system;

   (b) to organise and conduct the national examinations;

   (c) to serve as the examining authority for any of the national
       examinations or such modules or components of any of the
       national examinations as the Board may, in consultation
       with the Minister, determine;

   (d) to publish and disseminate information on matters relating
        to the functions and duties of the Board; and

   (e) to carry out such other functions and duties as are imposed
       upon the Board under this Act or any other written law.

 (2) In addition to the functions and duties imposed under
subsection (1), the Board may —

   (a) on terms that may be mutually agreed upon —

   (i) organise and conduct any assessment for or on behalf
       of the Government or any other person or body in
       Singapore or elsewhere and serve as the examining
       authority for the assessment; and

   (ii) provide advisory and consultancy services and
        training to the Government or any other person or
        body in Singapore or elsewhere on matters relating to
        the national examinations and assessments
        generally; and

   (b) undertake any other functions assigned by the Minister to
        the Board,

and in so doing, the Board is deemed to be fulfilling the purposes of
this Act, and the provisions of this Act apply to the Board in respect of
those functions.

 (3) Nothing in this section is to be construed as imposing on the
Board, directly or indirectly, any form of duty or liability enforceable
by proceedings before any court to which it would not otherwise be
subject.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
                        Singapore Examinations and

                        Assessment Board

2020 Ed.                Act 2003                                   8

Powers of Board

 12.—(1) The Board has power to do anything for the purpose of
discharging its functions and duties under this Act or any other
written law, or which is necessary, incidental or conducive to the
discharge of those functions and duties and, in particular, may —

(a) engage in or commission research pursuant to and in
     matters connected with or relevant to the functions and
     duties of the Board under this Act;

(b) determine, with the approval of the Minister, and collect,
     the fees to be paid by candidates for any of the national
     examinations;

          (c) impose —

          (i) fees or commissions for services rendered by the
              Board, including the conduct of any assessment at
              the request of the Government or any other person or
              body in Singapore or elsewhere and for the use of
              any facilities of the Board; and

      (ii) charges for the late payment of any such fee or
            commission;

                                                                      [Act 4 of 2008 wef 01/04/2024]

(d) with the approval of the Minister, form or participate in the
     formation of any company, partnership or joint venture as a
     shareholder or partner or in any other capacity and to share
     profits;

          (e) become a member or affiliate of any international body the
              functions, objects or duties of which are similar to those of
              the Board;

          (f) enter into any contracts necessary or expedient for the
              purpose of discharging its functions or duties;

(g) acquire or dispose of, in accordance with the provisions of
     this Act, any property, whether movable or immovable,
     which the Board thinks necessary or expedient for the
     purpose of carrying out its functions or duties;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
   Singapore Examinations and

   Assessment Board

9  Act 2003                    2020 Ed.

   (h) receive grants, donations, gifts, subsidies or contributions
        from any source, or raise funds by all lawful means and
        apply such funds for any of its functions or duties;

   (i) grant loans to any officer or employee of the Board for
       such purposes specifically approved by the Board as are
       likely to increase the efficiency of the officer or employee;

   (j) provide recreational facilities and promote recreational
       activities for, and activities conducive to, the welfare of
       officers and employees of the Board and members of their
       families;

   (k) provide for gratuities, pensions, allowances or other
       benefits for officers or employees, or former officers or
       employees, of the Board or its predecessors;

   (l) provide financial support, grant, aid or assistance to any
       person or organisation for all or any of the purposes of this
       Act or any other written law; and

      (m) provide training, whether by itself or with the cooperation
            of other persons or bodies as the Board thinks fit, for
            officers or employees of the Board or any other person who
            assists the Board in carrying out its functions and duties,
            and award scholarships or otherwise pay for the training.

                                                                                                        [S 461/2020]

 (2) In subsection (1)(d), “company” has the meaning given by
section 4(1) of the Companies Act 1967.

                                                                                                        [S 461/2020]

Validation of collection of charge for late payment of fee or
commission

 12A. Every amount collected before the date of commencement of
the Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2008 as, or
purportedly as, a charge for the late payment of any fee or
commission referred to in section 12(c)1 shall be deemed to be and
always to have been validly collected, and no legal proceedings shall

1 Section 12(c) is to be read as section 12(1)(c) of the Singapore Examinations and Assessment Board Act 2003 as
 amended by S 461/2020.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
          Singapore Examinations and

          Assessment Board

2020 Ed.  Act 2003                                                 10

lie or be instituted or maintained in any court of law on account of or
in respect of any such collection.

                                                                                 [Act 4 of 2008 wef 01/04/2024]

Directions by Minister

 13. The Minister may give to the Board any direction under
section 5 of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Committees

 14.—(1) The Board may appoint, alter or discharge committees,
each consisting of one or more persons (whether members or not),
and define or vary the terms of reference of those committees.

 (2) Subject to this Act and the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
and to the control of the Board, each committee appointed under this
section may regulate its procedure in any manner that the committee
thinks fit.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Delegation of powers

 15.—(1) The Board may, in respect of a specified matter or class of
matters, by writing, delegate to a member, officer or committee of the
Board or agent any of its functions or powers under this Act or under
any other written law.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) Every member, officer, committee or agent purporting to act
pursuant to a delegation under this section is presumed, in the absence
of proof to the contrary, to be acting in accordance with the terms of
the delegation.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
    Singapore Examinations and

    Assessment Board

11  Act 2003                                                 2020 Ed.

    PART 4

    PROVISIONS RELATING TO STAFF

Chief executive, officers and employees, etc.

 16.—(1) There must be a chief executive of the Board, whose
appointment, removal, discipline and promotion must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Board may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint an individual to act temporarily as the chief
executive during any period, or during all periods, when the chief
executive —

    (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (3) The Board may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint and employ, on such terms and conditions as it may
determine, such other officers, employees, consultants and agents as
may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Protection from personal liability

 17.—(1) No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie personally
against any member, officer or employee of the Board or other person
acting under the direction of the Board for anything which is in good
faith done or intended to be done in the execution or purported
execution of this Act or any other written law.

 (2) Where the Board provides a service to the public whereby
information is supplied to the public pursuant to any written law,
neither the Board nor any of its members, officers or employees
involved in the supply of the information shall be liable for any loss or
damage suffered by any member of the public by reason of any error
or omission of any nature appearing therein or however caused, if
made in good faith and in the ordinary course of the discharge of the
duties of the member, officer or employee.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
          Singapore Examinations and

          Assessment Board

2020 Ed.  Act 2003                                                 12

18. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

                                    PART 5
                        FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Financial year
 19. The financial year of the Board begins on 1 April of each year

and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.
 20. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

Funds of Board

 21. The funds of the Board consist of —
       (a) all moneys transferred to the Board under section 32;

       (b) all moneys received by the Board by way of grants or
            subsidies;

       (c) all gifts, donations and contributions to the Board;
       (d) all fees, charges, commissions, rents, interests, dividends

            and other income accruing to the Board;
       (e) all moneys borrowed by the Board under this Act;

        (f) all moneys recovered or collected by the Board or any
            officer or employee thereof (including sums collected for
            the composition of offences) under this Act or any other
            written law administered by the Board; and

       (g) all other moneys lawfully received by the Board for the
            purposes of the Board.

Grants
 22. For the purpose of enabling the Board to carry out its functions

under this Act, the Minister may make grants to the Board of such
sums of money, as the Minister may determine, out of moneys to be
provided by Parliament.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
                 Singapore Examinations and

                 Assessment Board

13               Act 2003                                    2020 Ed.

Power to borrow

 23. For the discharge of its functions or duties under this Act or any
other written law, the Board may raise loans from the Government or,
with the approval of the Minister for Finance, raise loans from banks
or other financial institutions (whether in Singapore or elsewhere)
by —

    (a) mortgage, overdraft or otherwise;

    (b) charge, whether legal or equitable, on any property vested
         in the Board or on any other revenue receivable by the
         Board under this Act or any other written law; or

    (c) the creation and issue of debentures or bonds.

Issue of shares, etc.

 24. As a consequence of —

       (a) the vesting of any property, rights or liabilities of the
            Government in the Board under this Act; or

       (b) any capital injection or other investment by the
            Government in the Board in accordance with any written
            law,

the Board must issue such shares or other securities to the Minister for
Finance as that Minister may direct.

Bank accounts

 25.—(1) The Board must open and maintain one or more accounts
with such bank or banks as the Board thinks fit.

 (2) Every such account must be operated by such person authorised
to do so by the Board.

Application of moneys

 26. The moneys of the Board must be applied only in payment or
discharge of the expenses, obligations and liabilities of the Board and
in making any payment that the Board is authorised or required to
make.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
          Singapore Examinations and

                     Assessment Board

2020 Ed.             Act 2003                                      14

Power of investment

 27. The Board may invest its moneys in accordance with the
standard investment power of statutory bodies as defined in
section 33A of the Interpretation Act 1965.

28. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

29. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

30. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

31. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

                                    PART 6

                TRANSFER OF PROPERTY, ASSETS,
                   LIABILITIES AND EMPLOYEES

Transfer to Board of property, assets and liabilities

 32.—(1) As from 1 April 2004 —

       (a) such movable and immovable property vested in the
            Government as may be determined by the Minister for
            Finance and used or managed by the Examinations
            Division;

       (b) all moneys in the Examinations Fund; and

       (c) all assets, interests, rights, privileges, liabilities and
            obligations of the Government relating to the
            Examinations Division,

are transferred to and vest in the Board without further assurance, act
or deed.

 (2) If any question arises as to whether any particular property,
asset, interest, right, privilege, liability or obligation has been
transferred to or vested in the Board under subsection (1), a
certificate under the hand of the Minister for Finance is conclusive
evidence that the property, asset, interest, right, privilege, liability or
obligation was or was not so transferred or vested.

 (3) Any immovable property to be transferred to and vested in the
Board under subsection (1) must be held by the Board upon such

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
    Singapore Examinations and

    Assessment Board

15  Act 2003                                                 2020 Ed.

tenure and subject to such terms and conditions as the President may
determine.

 (4) Every proceedings in respect of the transferred properties by or
against the Government which are pending on 1 April 2004 may be
continued, completed and enforced by or against the Board.

 (5) Every agreement relating to any of the transferred properties to
which the Government was a party immediately before 1 April 2004,
whether or not of such nature that the rights and liabilities thereunder
could be assigned, has effect as from that date as if —

    (a) the Board had been a party to such an agreement; and

    (b) for any reference to the Government there were substituted
         in respect of anything to be done on or after 1 April 2004 a
         reference to the Board.

 (6) In this section, “Examinations Fund” means the Fund
established under regulation 90(1) of the Education (Schools)
Regulations.

Transfer of employees

 33.—(1) As from 1 April 2004, such persons or categories of
persons as the Minister may determine who, immediately before that
date, were employed by the Government in the Examinations
Division are transferred to the service of the Board on terms no
less favourable than those enjoyed by them immediately prior to their
transfer.

 (2) If any question arises as to whether any person or category of
persons has been transferred to the service of the Board under
subsection (1), a certificate under the hand of the Minister is
conclusive evidence that the person or category of persons was or was
not so transferred.

 (3) Until such time as terms and conditions of service are drawn up
by the Board, the scheme and terms and conditions of service in the
Government continue to apply to every person transferred to the
service of the Board under subsection (1) as if he or she were still in
the service of the Government.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
          Singapore Examinations and

          Assessment Board

2020 Ed.  Act 2003                                                 16

Pension rights, etc., of Government employees to be preserved

 34.—(1) The terms and conditions to be drawn up by the Board
must take into account the terms and conditions of service (including
salaries and accrued rights to leave) enjoyed by the persons
transferred to the service of the Board under section 33 while in
the employment of the Government.

 (2) Any term or condition relating to the length of service with the
Board must recognise the length of service of the persons so
transferred while in the employment of the Government to be service
with the Board.

 (3) Nothing in the terms and conditions to be drawn up by the Board
adversely affects the conditions that would have been applicable to
persons transferred to the service of the Board as regards any pension,
gratuity or allowance payable under the Pensions Act 1956.

 (4) Where a person has been transferred to the service of the Board
under section 33, the Government is liable to pay to the Board such
portion of any pension, gratuity or allowance payable to the person on
his or her retirement as the same bears to the proportion which the
aggregate amount of the person’s pensionable emoluments during his
or her service with the Government bears to the aggregate amount of
his or her pensionable emoluments during his or her service under
both the Government and the Board.

 (5) Where any person in the service of the Board, whose case does
not fall within the scope of any pension or other schemes established
under this section, retires or dies in the service of the Board or is
discharged from such service, the Board may grant to him or her or to
such other person wholly or partly dependent on him or her, as the
Board thinks fit, such allowance or gratuity as the Board may
determine.

No benefits in respect of abolition or reorganisation of office

 35. Despite the provisions of the Pensions Act 1956, a person who
is transferred to the service of the Board under section 33 is not
entitled to claim any benefit under that Act on the ground that he or
she has been retired from the service of the Government on account of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
    Singapore Examinations and

    Assessment Board

17  Act 2003                                                 2020 Ed.

abolition or reorganisation of office in consequence of the
establishment and incorporation of the Board.

Existing contracts

 36. All deeds, contracts, schemes, bonds, agreements, instruments
and arrangements subsisting immediately before 1 April 2004 to
which the Government is a party and relating to the Examinations
Division or to any person transferred to the service of the Board under
section 33 continue in force on and after that date and are enforceable
by or against the Board as if the Board had been named therein or had
been a party thereto instead of the Government.

Continuation and completion of disciplinary proceedings and
other legal proceedings

 37.—(1) Where, on 1 April 2004, any disciplinary proceedings
were pending against any employee of the Government transferred to
the service of the Board, the proceedings must be carried on and
completed by the Board.

 (2) Where, on 1 April 2004, any matter was in the course of being
heard or investigated or had been heard or investigated by a
committee acting under due authority but no order, ruling or
direction had been made thereon, the committee must complete the
hearing or investigation and must make such order, ruling or direction
as it could have made under the authority vested in it before that date.

 (3) Any order, ruling or direction made by a committee under this
section is to be treated as an order, a ruling or a direction of the Board
and has the same force or effect as if it had been made by the Board
pursuant to the authority vested in the Board under this Act.

 (4) All proceedings or causes of action pending or existing
immediately before 1 April 2004 by or against the Government in
respect of the Examinations Division may be continued, completed
and enforced by or against the Board.

Misconduct or neglect of duty by employee before transfer

 38. The Board may reprimand, reduce in rank, retire, dismiss or
punish in some other manner a person who had, while the person was

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
          Singapore Examinations and

          Assessment Board

2020 Ed.  Act 2003                    18

in the service of the Government, been guilty of any misconduct or
neglect of duty which would have rendered him or her liable to be
reprimanded, reduced in rank, retired, dismissed or punished in some
other manner if he or she had continued to be in the service of the
Government, and if this Act had not been enacted.

                                    PART 7
                             MISCELLANEOUS
 39. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

Symbol or representation of Board
 40.—(1) The Board has the exclusive right to the use of such

symbol or representation as the Board may select or devise and to
display or exhibit the symbol or representation in connection with its
activities or affairs.

 (2) Any person who uses a symbol or representation —
       (a) identical with that of the Board; or
       (b) which so resembles that of the Board as to deceive or cause
            confusion, or be likely to deceive or cause confusion,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Preservation of secrecy
 41.—(1) Except for the purpose of the performance of his or her

duties or the exercise of his or her functions or when lawfully
required to do so by any court or where required or allowed by any
written law, a person who is or has been —

       (a) a member, officer, employee or agent of the Board; or
       (b) a member of a committee of the Board,
must not disclose any information relating to the affairs of the Board
or of any other person which has been obtained by him or her in the
performance of his or her duties or the exercise of his or her functions.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
    Singapore Examinations and

    Assessment Board

19  Act 2003                                                 2020 Ed.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 24 months or to
both.

Corporate offenders and unincorporated associations

 42.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved to have been committed with the consent or
connivance of, or to be attributable to any neglect on the part of, an
officer of the body corporate, the officer as well as the body corporate
shall be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of the body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of, or
to be attributable to any neglect on the part of, a partner, the partner as
well as the partnership shall be guilty of that offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved to
have been committed with the consent or connivance of, or to be
attributable to any neglect on the part of, an officer of the association
or a member of its governing body, the officer or member as well as
the association shall be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (5) In this section —

      “officer” —

              (a) in relation to a body corporate, means a director,
                   member of the committee of management, chief
                   executive, manager, secretary or other similar officer
                   of the body corporate or a person purporting to act in
                   any such capacity; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
          Singapore Examinations and

          Assessment Board

2020 Ed.  Act 2003                                                 20

          (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
               than a partnership), means the president, the secretary
               and members of the committee of the association and
               includes persons holding positions analogous to that
               of president, secretary or member of a committee;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

Composition of offences

 43.—(1) The chief executive or any officer authorised by the chief
executive may compound any offence under this Act that is
prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a person
reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum of
money not exceeding $1,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

Amendment of Schedule

 44. The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, amend
the Schedule.

Regulations

 45.—(1) The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations necessary or expedient to give effect to the provisions and
purposes of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Board may make
regulations for the following purposes:

       (a) regulating the proceedings of the Board or of the
            committees of the Board, to the extent not inconsistent
            with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018;

       (b) prescribing the fees and charges for the purposes of this
            Act;

       (c) regulating the conduct of the national examinations and
            any assessment conducted by the Board under this Act;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
    Singapore Examinations and

    Assessment Board

21  Act 2003                                                 2020 Ed.

       (d) prescribing the offences that may be compounded under
            this Act.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (3) The regulations may provide that a contravention of those
regulations shall be punishable with a fine not exceeding $10,000 or
with imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or with both
and, in the case of a continuing offence, with a further fine not
exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                             THE SCHEDULE          Sections 2 and 44

                            NATIONAL EXAMINATIONS
1. Primary School Leaving Examination (PSLE)
2. Singapore‑Cambridge GCE ‘O’‑Level Examination
3. Singapore‑Cambridge GCE ‘N’‑Level Examination
4. Singapore‑Cambridge GCE ‘A’‑Level Examination

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

           SINGAPORE EXAMINATIONS AND
                   ASSESSMENT BOARD
                            ACT 2003

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 32 of 2003 — Singapore Examinations and Assessment Board
                           Act 2003

Bill                  : 31/2003

First Reading         : 16 October 2003

Second and Third Readings : 11 November 2003

Commencement          : 1 April 2004

2. Act 45 of 2004 — Trustees (Amendment) Act 2004
   (Amendments made by section 25(4) read with item (45) of the Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill                  : 43/2004

First Reading         : 21 September 2004

Second and Third Readings : 19 October 2004

Commencement          : 15 December 2004 (section 25(4) read
                            with item (45) of the Schedule)

3. 2004 Revised Edition — Singapore Examinations and Assessment Board
                                   Act (Chapter 299A)

Operation             : 31 December 2004

4. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
   (Amendments made by section 99 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2017

First Reading         : 6 November 2017

Second Reading        : 8 January 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 8 January 2018

Third Reading         : 8 January 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 99)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
               ii

5. G.N. No. S 461/2020 — Variable Capital Companies (Consequential
                                   Amendments to Other Acts) Order 2020

Commencement   : 15 June 2020

6. 2020 Revised Edition — Singapore Examinations and
                                    Assessment Board
                                    Act 2003

Operation      : 31 December 2021

7. Act 4 of 2008 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2008

Bill           : 49/2007

First Reading  : 12 November 2007

Second and Third Readings : 22 January 2008

Commencement   : 1 April 2024

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
        COMPARATIVE TABLE

SINGAPORE EXAMINATIONS AND
        ASSESSMENT BOARD
                 ACT 2003

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2004 Ed.
—                          15—(3) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
[Omitted as spent]         46

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
