THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
COMMUNITY CARE ENDOWMENT FUND ACT 2005

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                         2020 Ed.

Community Care Endowment Fund
                Act 2005

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

               COMMUNITY CARE ENDOWMENT FUND

3. Establishment of Community Care Endowment Fund
4. Administration of ComCare Fund
5. Capital moneys of ComCare Fund
6. Objects and application of income of ComCare Fund
7. Supervisory Council

                                        PART 3

                            FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

 8. Expenses
 9. Financial year of ComCare Fund
10. Accounts
11. No payment unless approved by Minister
12. Appointment, powers and duties of auditor
13. Failure to furnish information to auditor
14. Presentation of annual report, financial statements and auditor’s

         report to Parliament

                                        PART 4
                                 MISCELLANEOUS
15. False or misleading information, etc.
16. Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

                                                      1

                                                         31.12.2021
         Community Care Endowment

2        Fund Act 2005                       2020 Ed.

Section  Composition of offences
   17.   Regulations
   18.   The Schedule — Supervisory Council

An Act to establish the Community Care Endowment Fund for the
  purposes of providing assistance to citizens and permanent
  residents of Singapore and their family members living in
  Singapore, who are in financial and other difficulties, and for
  matters connected therewith; and to terminate the charitable trust
  known as the Community Assistance Fund.

                                                            [24 October 2005]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Community Care Endowment Fund Act 2005.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “authorised officer” means any officer authorised by the
         Minister in writing to exercise such power or perform such
         function or duty under this Act as the Minister may specify
         therein;
      “ComCare Fund” means the Community Care Endowment Fund
         established under section 3(1);
      “Council” means the Supervisory Council established under
         section 7.
          Community Care Endowment

2020 Ed.  Fund Act 2005                         3

          PART 2

          COMMUNITY CARE ENDOWMENT FUND

Establishment of Community Care Endowment Fund

 3.—(1) A fund called the Community Care Endowment Fund is
established into which must be paid —

(a) all capital moneys as are appropriated from time to time
     from the Consolidated Fund and authorised to be paid into
     the ComCare Fund by this Act or any other written law;

(b) all gifts or bequests given or made for the purposes of the
     ComCare Fund; and

          (c) the net income from investments of capital moneys in the
              ComCare Fund.

 (2) The ComCare Fund must be regarded as a Government fund and
as comprising public moneys for the purposes of any other written
law.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1)(c), the net income from
investments of capital moneys is the amount ascertained by adding to,
or deducting from, the income received from the investments of
capital moneys any profit derived or loss sustained (as the case may
be) from the realisation of such investments.

Administration of ComCare Fund

 4. The Minister is responsible for the administration of the
ComCare Fund and all moneys belonging to the Fund may be
deposited in any bank and invested in any investment authorised
under the Financial Procedure Act 1966.

Capital moneys of ComCare Fund

 5.—(1) On 24 October 2005, such sum as the Minister for Finance
may determine out of moneys to be provided by Parliament must be
paid into the ComCare Fund as capital moneys.

 (2) The Minister for Finance may, from time to time, after
24 October 2005 pay into the ComCare Fund such sums of capital

                                                31.12.2021
   Community Care Endowment

4  Fund Act 2005             2020 Ed.

moneys as he or she may determine out of moneys to be provided by
Parliament.

 (3) Despite the terms of any gift or bequest, all gifts and bequests
given or made for the purposes of the ComCare Fund must be paid
into the Fund as capital moneys.

 (4) The capital moneys of the ComCare Fund must not be used for
any purpose other than for investment.

 (5) Where at any time there is a permanent diminution of the capital
moneys of the ComCare Fund, the Minister must, before paying out
any income of the Fund, make good such diminution from the income
of the Fund.

Objects and application of income of ComCare Fund

 6.—(1) The objects for which the income of the ComCare Fund
may be applied are —

       (a) the provision of assistance to citizens and permanent
            residents of Singapore and their family members living in
            Singapore with financial or other difficulties to enable
            them to attain sufficient income to meet their basic needs;

       (b) the provision of assistance to address the developmental
            issues faced by children from families of citizens and
            permanent residents of Singapore living in Singapore with
            financial or other difficulties;

       (c) the provision of assistance to citizens and permanent
            residents of Singapore and their family members living in
            Singapore with financial or other difficulties who require
            help to integrate into society; and

       (d) the development of programmes to enhance the capacity of
            the community to undertake the objects set out in
            paragraphs (a), (b) and (c).

 (2) In carrying out the objects of the ComCare Fund, the Minister
may, from time to time, authorise the income of the Fund to be paid
out and expended for all or any of the following purposes:
          Community Care Endowment

2020 Ed.  Fund Act 2005             5

(a) the provision of grants to be given to individuals or
     families through organisations;

(b) the provision of grants to be given to organisations to carry
     out programmes consistent with the objects of the Fund;

          (c) such other purposes consistent with the objects of the
              Fund, as may be prescribed.

Supervisory Council
 7.—(1) A Supervisory Council comprising such members as the

Minister may appoint is established to oversee the administration and
use of the moneys of the ComCare Fund.

 (2) The Minister must appoint one of the members as chairperson.

 (3) The Schedule has effect with respect to the Council.

                                    PART 3

                        FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Expenses

 8. All expenses incurred in connection with the administration of
the ComCare Fund, including the cost of auditing the accounts of the
Fund, must be defrayed out of the income of the Fund.

Financial year of ComCare Fund

 9. The financial year of the ComCare Fund begins on 1 April of
each year and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

Accounts
 10.—(1) The Minister must cause to be kept proper accounts and

records of all transactions and affairs relating to the ComCare Fund
and must do all things necessary to ensure that all payments out of the
Fund are properly authorised and correctly made and that adequate
control is maintained over the assets and receipts of the Fund.

 (2) The Minister must, as soon as practicable after the close of each
financial year, cause to be prepared and submitted financial
statements in respect of that year to the auditor of the ComCare Fund.

                                                                                              31.12.2021
   Community Care Endowment

6  Fund Act 2005                        2020 Ed.

No payment unless approved by Minister

 11. A payment must not be made out of the ComCare Fund unless
the payment is approved by the Minister or any authorised officer.

Appointment, powers and duties of auditor

 12.—(1) The accounts of the ComCare Fund must be audited by the
Auditor-General or such other auditor as may be appointed annually
by the Minister in consultation with the Auditor-General.

 (2) A person is not qualified for appointment as an auditor under
subsection (1) unless he or she is a public accountant who is
registered or deemed to be registered under the Accountants
Act 2004.

 (3) The auditor or any person authorised by him or her is entitled at
all reasonable times to full and free access to all accounting and other
records relating, directly or indirectly, to the financial transactions of
the ComCare Fund and may make copies of, or extracts from, any
such accounting and other records.

 (4) The auditor must in the auditor’s report state —

       (a) whether the financial statements show fairly the financial
            transactions and the state of affairs of the ComCare Fund;

       (b) whether proper accounting and other records have been
            kept, including records of all assets of the ComCare Fund;

       (c) whether receipts, expenditure, and investment of moneys
            and the acquisition and disposal of assets on account of the
            ComCare Fund during the financial year were in
            accordance with the provisions of this Act; and

       (d) such other matters arising from the audit as he or she
            considers necessary.

 (5) The auditor must —

       (a) as soon as practicable after the accounts of the ComCare
            Fund have been submitted for audit, send a report of the
            audit to the Minister; and
          Community Care Endowment

2020 Ed.  Fund Act 2005             7

(b) submit such periodical and special reports to the Minister
     as may appear to the auditor to be necessary or as the
     Minister may require.

 (6) Where the Auditor-General is not the auditor of the ComCare
Fund, a copy of the audited financial statements and any report made
by the auditor must be forwarded to the Auditor-General.

Failure to furnish information to auditor

 13.—(1) The auditor or any person authorised by the auditor may
require any person to furnish him or her with such information in the
possession of that person or to which that person has access as the
auditor considers necessary for the purposes of the auditor’s functions
under this Act.

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with any requirement of the auditor under subsection (1) or who
otherwise hinders, obstructs or delays the auditor in the performance
of his or her duties or the exercise of his or her powers shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$1,000.

Presentation of annual report, financial statements and
auditor’s report to Parliament

 14. The Minister must, as soon as practicable, cause an annual
report in respect of the administration of the ComCare Fund during
the preceding financial year to be prepared and must present a copy of
such report and of the audited financial statements and the auditor’s
report to Parliament.

                                    PART 4
                             MISCELLANEOUS
False or misleading information, etc.
 15. Any person who, for any purpose connected with this Act —
       (a) knowingly makes any false statement to the Minister or an
            authorised officer or to the auditor or a person authorised
            by him or her; or

                                                                                              31.12.2021
   Community Care Endowment

8  Fund Act 2005             2020 Ed.

   (b) produces or furnishes or causes or knowingly allows to be
        produced or furnished to the Minister or an authorised
        officer or to the auditor or a person authorised by him or
        her, any document which he or she knows to be false in a
        material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 16.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on his or her part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with his or her functions of management as if
he or she were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            a partner; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on his or her part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
            its governing body; or
             Community Care Endowment

2020 Ed.               Fund Act 2005                         9

(b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an
     officer or member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(5) In this section —

“body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership;

“officer” —

          (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
               partner, member of the committee of management,
               chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
               officer of the body corporate and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity; or

          (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
               than a partnership), means the president, the
               secretary, or any member of the committee of the
               unincorporated association, or any person holding a
               position analogous to that of president, secretary or
               member of a committee and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

Composition of offences

 17.—(1) The Minister or any authorised officer may compound any
offence under this Act which is prescribed as a compoundable
offence by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum not exceeding $500.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings may
be taken against the person in respect of such offence.

 (3) The Minister may make regulations to prescribe the offences
which may be compounded.

                                       31.12.2021
             Community Care Endowment

10           Fund Act 2005                           2020 Ed.

Regulations

 18. The Minister may make such regulations as are necessary or
expedient for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act,
and in particular, the regulations may —

    (a) prescribe the procedure for payments out of the ComCare
         Fund;

    (b) provide for matters relating to applications for funds,
         financial assistance or incentives;

    (c) prescribe the procedure of the Council; and

    (d) prescribe anything which may be prescribed under this
         Act.

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 7(3)

                               SUPERVISORY COUNCIL
 1.—(1) Subject to this paragraph, every member of the Council holds and
vacates his or her office in accordance with the terms of his or her appointment
and, on ceasing to be a member, is eligible for re-appointment.

 (2) Any member of the Council may resign his or her office at any time by
giving written notice to the Minister.
 (3) If the Minister is satisfied that a member of the Council —

        (a) is guilty of neglect of duty or misconduct;

        (b) has become bankrupt or made an arrangement with his or her creditors;

        (c) is incapacitated by physical or mental illness; or

        (d) is otherwise unable or unfit to discharge the functions of a member,

the Minister may remove him or her from office.

 2. The validity of any proceedings of the Council is not affected by any vacancy
among the members or by any defect in the appointment of any member.

 3. The arrangements relating to meetings of the Council are such as the Council
may determine.

 4. The chairperson presides at all meetings of the Council at which he or she is
present and, in the chairperson’s absence, the members present must elect one of
their number to act as chairperson of that meeting.
          Community Care Endowment

2020 Ed.  Fund Act 2005             11

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

 5. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Council may regulate its own
procedure in such manner as it thinks fit.

                                    31.12.2021
                          LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
       COMMUNITY CARE ENDOWMENT FUND ACT 2005

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 33 of 2005 — Community Care Endowment Fund Act 2005

       Bill                          : 24/2005

       First Reading                 : 15 August 2005

       Second and Third Readings : 19 September 2005

       Commencement                  : 24 October 2005

2. 2006 Revised Edition — Community Care Endowment Fund Act
                                    (Chapter 49B)

       Operation                     : 31 July 2006

                                  Abbreviations

C.P.                  Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.              Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S            Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.                  Legislative Assembly

L.N.                  Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

                      Legislation)

M. Act                Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.                 Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.          Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number

                                                                     31.12.2021
                    COMPARATIVE TABLE
COMMUNITY CARE ENDOWMENT FUND ACT 2005

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.               2006 Ed.
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]  19—(1)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (2)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (3)
                                   (4)

                                                  31.12.2021
