THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
             SIGNIFICANT INFRASTRUCTURE
              GOVERNMENT LOAN ACT 2021

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
                                                                    2020 Ed.

          Significant Infrastructure
         Government Loan Act 2021

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                              PART 1
                         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Purpose of Act
     2.
     3.

                                        PART 2

            AUTHORISATION AND APPLICATION OF LOAN

 4. Power to raise loan
 5. Borrowing limit
 6. Issuing securities for borrowing
 7. Principal and interest charged on Consolidated Fund
 8. Borrowing expenses
 9. Power to raise loan non‑delegable
10. Borrowing only for nationally significant infrastructure

         expenditure
11. Meaning of “nationally significant infrastructure expenditure”

                                        PART 3

                             TERMS OF SECURITIES

12. Redemption
13. Early redemption
14. Payment of interest
15. Interest stops on redemption
16. Transferability, etc., of securities

                                                   1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
          Significant Infrastructure

2020 Ed.  Government Loan Act 2021                                  2

          PART 4

          ADMINISTRATION

Section   MAS is agent
          Securities lending arrangements
   17.    Issue of book‑entry securities
   18.    Transfers and pledges of book‑entry securities
   19.    Transfers and pledges effected by other means
   20.    MAS to be discharged by action on instructions
   21.    Confirmation of transactions
   22.
   23.

                                        PART 5
                                   REGULATIONS

24. Regulations
25. Presentation to Parliament

An Act to authorise loans to be raised by the Government for the
  purposes of the Development Fund in relation to nationally
  significant infrastructure.

                                                               [3 August 2021]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Significant Infrastructure Government Loan
Act 2021.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “book‑entry security” means any security issued under this Act
         in the form of an entry on the records of the MAS and which
         is transferable by way of book‑entry in the register
         maintained by the MAS, and not by way of an instrument
         of transfer;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
   Significant Infrastructure

3  Government Loan Act 2021                                  2020 Ed.

   “depositary institution” means a financial institution approved
      by the MAS which regularly —

   (a) accepts in the course of its business book‑entry
        securities by way of a custodial service for its
        customers; and

   (b) maintains accounts in the names of its customers
        reflecting ownership or interest in such book‑entry
        securities;

   “depositor” means any person in whose name an account is
      established and maintained on the records of the MAS;

   “Development Fund” means the Development Fund constituted
      under the Development Fund Act 1959;

   “face value”, for any security issued under this Act, means its
      face value at the time the security was issued;

   “MAS” means the Monetary Authority of Singapore established
      under the Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970;

   “maturity date”, for any security issued under this Act, means
      the date —

   (a) specified, in accordance with the Regulations relating
        to the issue of that security, as the date on which the
        security is redeemable at par; or

   (b) specified by the Minister in the terms of the issue as
        the date on which the security is redeemable at par
        where the Regulations do not apply to that issue;

   “nationally significant infrastructure” means any structure or
      building in Singapore (whether above or below ground or
      water) that —

   (a) is or is intended to be controlled and legally owned by
        the Government;

   (b) is or is intended primarily for any of the following
        purposes or a combination of any of the following
        purposes:

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
          Significant Infrastructure

2020 Ed.  Government Loan Act 2021                                  4
.
          (i) the transport by road or rail, air, sea or inland
.             waterway of passengers or goods or both;

                                     Examples

              Roads, paths, railways, tunnels and bridges for
          roads or railways in Singapore that are used by the
          public for the movement or transport of people or
          goods.

              A runway or taxiway, or a parking apron for loading
          and unloading of aircraft passengers or cargo.

              A building wholly or principally for use as a
          passenger terminal or cargo terminal for transport by
          land or air.

              A wharf or dock in Singapore used by the public to
          facilitate the carriage or transfer of cargo or passengers
          travelling by sea or river.

          (ii) the collection, treatment and disposal of
                sewage or the supply or recovery and
                treatment of water;

          (iii) the alleviation of floods;

          (iv) coastal management (within the meaning given
                by section 2 of the Public Utilities Act 2001);

                                                              [Act 8 of 2026 wef 29/05/2026]

           (v) the generation, transmission or distribution of
                electricity, gas or other energy or power;

                                              Examples

                      Power stations, substations, transmission lines and
                  transformers for electricity generation, transmission or
                  distribution.

                      Pipelines used to transport gases which liquefy under
                  pressure (such as natural gas, ethane and LPG) from a gas
                  processing plant.

          (vi) the delivery of telecommunications,
               broadcasting, electronic and other data
               communications services;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
   Significant Infrastructure

5  Government Loan Act 2021                                  2020 Ed.

                (vii) any other purpose (which may include a supply
                       chain or an interconnected network) in which
                       initial or further investment is vital to
                       supporting, or is likely to materially improve,
                       national productivity or Singapore’s economic,
                       environmental or social sustainability; and

           (c) is or is intended principally for use by (whether or not
                free) or for the benefit of the present and future
                generations of the general public in Singapore;

   “nationally significant infrastructure expenditure” has the
      meaning given by section 11;

   “pledge” includes a pledge of, or any interest which secures the
      payment of a debt or performance of an obligation (but not
      arising from a trust) in, any book‑entry security —

           (a) as collateral for loans or advances; or

           (b) to secure deposits of public moneys or the
                performance of an obligation;

   “primary dealer” means a person approved under Part 7A of the
      Government Securities Act 1992 to be a primary dealer;

   “public authority” means a body or an office that is established
      or constituted by or under a public Act to perform or
      discharge a public function, and includes a Town Council;

   “Regulations” means regulations made under this Act;

   “related facility”, for any nationally significant infrastructure,
      means a structure or building, fitting, fixture, plant, computer
      or other system adjoining to or forming part of another
      structure or building in Singapore, without which the other
      structure or building —

.  (a) will not have or have left, or cannot reasonably be

   expected to have or have left, a useful life of at least

   50 years;

   (b) cannot reasonably operate for its intended purpose or
       purposes, being a purpose described in paragraph (b)

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
          Significant Infrastructure

2020 Ed.  Government Loan Act 2021                                  6

                  of the definition of “nationally significant
                  infrastructure”; or

             (c) otherwise ceases to be a nationally significant
                  infrastructure,

          regardless of the useful life of the related facility itself, but
          does not include any train, vehicle or vessel;

                                                Examples

              Gratings, float, boom, gauge, tidegate, sump, pumping station, pumps
          and associated pipe work, maintenance access, and debris interception and
          removal facility related to the functioning of a storm water drainage
          system are related facilities for a nationally significant infrastructure for
          the alleviation of floods.

              Aviation fuel pipelines and water and sprinkler facilities relating to
          normal airport safety requirements, and specific purpose equipment used
          for unloading cargo or passengers at the airport such as airbridges and
          mobile air‑stairs are related facilities for a nationally significant
          infrastructure for air transport.

              Rolling stock, locomotives, aircraft and barges are not related
          facilities for a nationally significant infrastructure for transport.

“security” includes stock, bonds, notes, certificates, bills and
   similar instruments;

“useful life”, for any thing, means the period that the thing is or
   is expected to be available and in a condition for use for the
   purpose which the thing is designed for.

Purpose of Act

 3. The purpose of this Act is to enable financing by borrowing to
meet the Government’s commitment to Singapore’s future by
investing in nationally significant infrastructure and their related
facilities in which initial or further investment is vital to supporting or
is likely to materially improve national productivity or Singapore’s
economic, environmental or social sustainability.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
                     Significant Infrastructure

7                    Government Loan Act 2021                2020 Ed.

                     PART 2

   AUTHORISATION AND APPLICATION OF LOAN

Power to raise loan

 4.—(1) The Minister may raise, in the manner provided in this Act,
loans to be applied in the manner provided in this Act and the
Development Fund Act 1959.

 (2) The power to raise loans under this section does extend to
raising money outside of Singapore and in a currency other than the
Singapore dollar.

   (3) To avoid doubt, this Act does not limit any borrowing by —

   (a) entering into a hire‑purchase agreement or an arrangement
        that is of the same or a substantially similar nature;

   (b) entering into a lease or an arrangement that is of the same
        or substantially similar nature;

   (c) accepting debt on assignment; or

   (d) purchasing of goods or services on credit for a period of
        less than 90 days.

Borrowing limit

 5.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the Minister must not raise a loan
under this Act if either condition in paragraph (a) or (b) is satisfied:

       (a) the total at any time of the following exceeds
            $90,000,000,000:

               (i) the sum of the proposed borrowing;

              (ii) the total amount of sums borrowed under any loan
                   earlier raised under this Act;

       (b) the total effective interest paid or payable within (or both)
            the relevant period on all outstanding securities issued
            under this Act is more than the interest threshold amount of
            $5,000,000,000.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
          Significant Infrastructure

2020 Ed.  Government Loan Act 2021                                  8

(2) Subsection (1)(a) does not apply to any of the following:

(a) a borrowing transaction in a year that —

          (i) the Minister (in person) designates to be for the
              purpose of refinancing a previous borrowing under
              this Act; and

          (ii) is for a sum less than the total amount of securities
               issued under this Act and redeemed or with a
               maturity date within the same year;

(b) all securities issued under this Act that are loaned by the
     MAS under any securities lending arrangement under
     section 18, or held by the MAS on behalf of the
     Government for the purpose of such an arrangement.

 (3) In subsection (1)(b), the effective interest on all outstanding
securities issued under this Act is the total of the yield to maturity for
every security so issued multiplied by the face value of the security,
where “yield” means the rate of return on any such security computed
on the basis of the price of the security, the total interest payments and
the period commencing from the date of issue of the security under
this Act to the maturity date of that security.

 (4) The relevant period in subsection (1)(b) means the financial
year immediately before the financial year in which the proposed loan
to be raised under this Act is raised.

 (5) To ascertain on any occasion whether any condition in
subsection (1)(a) or (b) is satisfied, any moneys raised in a
currency other than Singapore dollars must be converted into
Singapore dollars as at the following rate of exchange, being a rate
that the MAS certifies to be then appropriate:

(a) for the purpose of subsection (1)(a)(i), as at the rate of
     exchange on the last day of the financial year immediately
     before the date the amount is to be raised;

(b) for the purpose of subsection (1)(a)(ii) in connection with
     sums borrowed under any loan earlier raised under this
     Act, as at the rate of exchange as follows:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
   Significant Infrastructure

9  Government Loan Act 2021                                  2020 Ed.

   (i) where any security issued under this Act for the sum
       so borrowed has matured or has been redeemed —
       on the maturity date of the security or the date of its
       redemption, if earlier;

   (ii) where any security issued under this Act for the sum
        so borrowed has not been redeemed — on the day
        referred to in paragraph (a) for the same occasion;

   (c) for the purpose of subsection (1)(b), as at the rate of
       exchange on the day when the amount of interest is to be
       paid or is payable, and that the MAS certifies to be then
       appropriate.

Issuing securities for borrowing

 6. For the purpose of raising any loan under this Act, the Minister
may —

       (a) issue securities in such form and manner as the Minister
            thinks fit; and

       (b) issue such securities at such rates of interest and subject to
            such conditions as to maturity date, repayment, redemption
            and other matters as may be prescribed by this Act and the
            Regulations and, subject to the provisions of the Act and
            Regulations, by the Minister.

Principal and interest charged on Consolidated Fund

 7. The principal payable in respect of moneys borrowed under this
Act and represented by securities issued under this Act, and all
interest on the principal sums payable on the securities, are charged
upon and payable out of the Consolidated Fund without authority
other than this section.

Borrowing expenses

 8. All expenses incurred in connection with the raising of money
under this Act (including expenses in connection with the issue,
refinancing, repayment or redemption of securities) are charged upon
and payable out of the Consolidated Fund without authority other
than this section.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
          Significant Infrastructure

2020 Ed.  Government Loan Act 2021                                  10

Power to raise loan non‑delegable

 9. Despite anything in the Interpretation Act 1965 or any other law,
the Minister must not delegate the Minister’s power under this Part.

Borrowing only for nationally significant infrastructure
expenditure

 10.—(1) The face value of every security issued under this Act, less
any sum mentioned in section 5(2) —

       (a) must be paid into the Development Fund; and

       (b) may only be appropriated to meet nationally significant
            infrastructure expenditure by the Government.

 (2) Out of the proceeds of money raised under this Act, only the
face value of every security issued under this Act, less any sum
mentioned in section 5(2), must be treated as moneys received by way
of loan upon the public credit of Singapore for the purposes of
section 6 of the Financial Procedure Act 1966.

Meaning of “nationally significant infrastructure expenditure”

 11.—(1) In this Act, “nationally significant infrastructure
expenditure” means any qualifying capital expenditure incurred, on
or after 3 August 2021, in relation to an approved infrastructure
project.

 (2) In this section, “infrastructure project” means a project
involving any one or more of the following matters:

       (a) the construction or acquisition of any nationally significant
            infrastructure;

       (b) the building, installation or acquisition of any related
            facility of a nationally significant infrastructure;

       (c) the improvement, extension, enlargement or replacement
            of any nationally significant infrastructure or related
            facility of a nationally significant infrastructure where
            the improvement, extension, enlargement or replacement
            significantly —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
    Significant Infrastructure

11  Government Loan Act 2021                                  2020 Ed.

    (i) increases the capacity or reliability of the nationally
        significant infrastructure;

    (ii) increases the useful life of the nationally significant
         infrastructure; or

    (iii) reduces previously assessed operating costs of the
          nationally significant infrastructure,

such that the nationally significant infrastructure has or has left, or is
reasonably expected to have or have left, a useful life of at least
50 years upon the completion of the infrastructure project.

 (3) In this section, “qualifying capital expenditure”, in relation to an
infrastructure project, means capital expenditure incurred by any
infrastructure project participant of the project, wholly or
substantially for the purpose of carrying on the infrastructure
project, and even if incurred before 3 August 2021; and includes
capital expenditure incurred in connection with any of the following
incidentals to the project:

    (a) the acquisition of any right or interest in respect of the use
         of any invention, required in respect of or in connection
         with any matter in subsection (2)(a), (b) or (c);

    (b) any associated design, investigative and engineering
         studies, survey or research preparatory to the
         undertaking of any matter in paragraph (a) or
         subsection (2)(a), (b) or (c);

    (c) any works directly attributable to bringing the nationally
        significant infrastructure and its related facilities to the
        location and condition necessary for the nationally
        significant infrastructure to operate for its intended
        purpose or purposes.

 (4) However, qualifying capital expenditure excludes any capital
expenditure incurred in relation to any of the following:

    (a) the repair or maintenance of a nationally significant
         infrastructure or related facility of a nationally
         significant infrastructure;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
                      Significant Infrastructure

2020 Ed.              Government Loan Act 2021                      12

(b) the acquisition of land and of any right or interest in or over
     land, even if required in respect of or in connection with
     any matter in subsection (2)(a), (b) or (c);

          (c) the acquisition, repair or maintenance of any train, vehicle,
              aircraft, vessel or barge.

 (5) The Minister must not approve any infrastructure project for the
purposes of this Act unless —

(a) the total qualifying capital expenditure that has been or is
     expected to be incurred wholly or substantially by every
     infrastructure project participant for the purpose of the
     infrastructure project is estimated to be $4,000,000,000 or
     more; and

(b) the infrastructure project is ongoing on, or starts on or after
     3 August 2021.

 (6) Where a number of distinct contracts or engagements are
entered or to be entered into purportedly in connection with any
infrastructure project, and the estimated value of some or all of such
contracts or engagements taken severally do not exceed the amount
specified in subsection (5), then to calculate the estimate of the total
qualifying capital expenditure to be incurred by any infrastructure
project participant wholly or substantially for the purpose of the
project, every distinct contract or engagement for anything that —

(a) is capable of being completed and to start operations
     independently of other matters covered by the other
     contracts or engagements or without materially affecting
     the effective operation of matters covered by the other
     contracts or engagements; and

(b) is situated on lands that are not adjacent or contiguous,

must be disregarded.

(7) In this section —

“approved” means approved in person by the Minister in
   accordance with this section;

“construction”, in relation to any nationally significant
   infrastructure, means —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
    Significant Infrastructure

13  Government Loan Act 2021                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) the erection (but not repair or maintenance) of the
         nationally significant infrastructure or any of its
         related facilities;

    (b) the excavation or site formation works connected
         with or carried out for the purpose of paragraph (a);
         or

    (c) the demolition and re‑construction of the nationally
        significant infrastructure or any of its related
        facilities;

    “infrastructure project” includes a phase or stage of an
       infrastructure project only if expressly planned for at the
       start of the infrastructure project;

    “infrastructure project participant”, for any infrastructure
       project, means —

    (a) the department, ministry or Organ of State of the
         Government to which responsibility for carrying out
         the infrastructure project (or any part of the project) is
         assigned; or

    (b) a public authority carrying out the infrastructure
         project as an agent or otherwise on behalf of the
         department, ministry or Organ of State of the
         Government mentioned in paragraph (a).

                                    PART 3
                         TERMS OF SECURITIES
Redemption
 12. Subject to sections 13 and 18, a security issued under this Act is
redeemable at par on —
       (a) the maturity date of the security; or
       (b) if the security is redeemable at the election of the holder, on
            the earlier of the following dates:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
          Significant Infrastructure

2020 Ed.  Government Loan Act 2021                                  14

          (i) the date specified as the redemption date in any
              notice of intention to redeem that is given by the
              holder to the MAS in the prescribed manner;

          (ii) the maturity date of the security.

Early redemption

 13.—(1) The holder of a security that is issued under this Act and
not redeemable at the election of the holder may, upon an invitation of
the MAS under this section, apply to redeem the security before the
maturity date of the security.

 (2) The MAS may by public notice invite the public to apply to
redeem any security issued under this Act before the maturity date of
the security where that security is —

       (a) not redeemable at the election of the holder; and

       (b) specified or described in the public notice.

 (3) The public notice mentioned in subsection (2) may specify —

       (a) the terms and conditions relating to the early redemption of
            the security specified or described in the public notice,
            including the manner in which any offer for early
            redemption has to be made; and

       (b) such other information as the MAS may consider
            necessary.

 (4) However, the MAS may refuse any application to redeem any
security before the maturity date of the security without assigning any
reason.

Payment of interest

 14.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the interest payable on any
security issued under this Act must be paid half‑yearly as specified in
the Regulations relating to the issue of the security.

 (2) Where any security that is redeemable at the election of the
holder thereof at any time is redeemed before its maturity date, a
portion of the half‑yearly interest payable on that security (calculated
on a pro‑rata basis) is payable on such date as may be specified as the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
    Significant Infrastructure

15  Government Loan Act 2021    2020 Ed.

redemption date in the duly served notice of intention under
section 12(b)(i) to redeem that security.

 (3) The Minister must, in respect of any security issued under this
Act —

    (a) in each half‑yearly period ending on the day on which
         interest on the security falls due; or

    (b) if security is redeemable at the election of the holder
         thereof at any time, as soon as practicable after due notice
         of intention under section 12(b)(i) to redeem the security
         before its maturity date is given,

withdraw from the Consolidated Fund a sum equal to the appropriate
interest (or a portion thereof) on the security that is due and payable in
order to pay that interest.

Interest stops on redemption

 15. Regardless of any demand for payment of the principal sum, all
the interest on the principal sum payable on the security stop
immediately after —

       (a) the maturity date of a security issued under this Act;

       (b) the redemption date in the duly served notice of intention
            under section 12(b)(i); or

       (c) the date of early redemption in accordance with section 13,

whichever is the earliest.

Transferability, etc., of securities

 16. A holder of a book‑entry security may transfer or pledge the
book‑entry security.

                                    PART 4
                            ADMINISTRATION
MAS is agent
 17.—(1) The MAS is by this Act appointed to act on the
Government’s behalf as an agent —

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
          Significant Infrastructure

2020 Ed.  Government Loan Act 2021                                  16

(a) for issuing of securities for moneys borrowed under this
     Act; and

(b) for any other purpose that is connected with paragraph (a).

(2) Without limiting subsection (1), the MAS may —

(a) by public notice invite the public to apply to take up
     securities issued under this Act; and

(b) refuse any application to take up securities issued under
     this Act without assigning any reason.

 (3) Subsection (1) does not prevent the exercise by the Minister of
any power under this Act.

Securities lending arrangements

 18.—(1) The MAS may, from time to time and on the
Government’s behalf as an agent, but subject to subsection (2),
enter into securities lending arrangements by lending securities
issued under this Act to primary dealers, including an arrangement
under which such securities are sold and repurchased.

 (2) The total outstanding amount of securities issued under this Act
and on loan by the MAS at any time by way of any securities lending
arrangement on behalf of the Government entered into under
subsection (1) must not exceed —

       (a) $6,500,000,000; or

       (b) a higher sum specified by Parliament in a resolution in
            substitution for the amount in paragraph (a).

 (3) Lending security is taken to include an arrangement under
which it is sold and repurchased.

 (4) In the case of securities issued under this Act that are held by the
MAS for the purpose of securities lending to primary dealers under
this section, those securities are redeemable on such conditions as are
agreed upon between the Government and the MAS.

 (5) To avoid doubt, nothing in this section affects the power of the
Minister to make investments under section 7 of the Financial
Procedure Act 1966.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
    Significant Infrastructure

17  Government Loan Act 2021                                  2020 Ed.

Issue of book‑entry securities

19.—(1) The MAS may —

    (a) issue book‑entry securities for moneys borrowed under
         this Act, by means of entries on its records which include
         the name of the depositor and the amount and description
         of the securities;

    (b) maintain accounts of book‑entry securities for moneys
         borrowed under this Act —

    (i) for any depositor on such terms and conditions as
        may be specified by the MAS for such securities the
        depositor holds for its own account and, where the
        depositor is a depositary institution, for the account
        of its customers;

    (ii) for the Government; and

    (iii) for the MAS; and

    (c) otherwise service and maintain such book‑entry securities.

 (2) The MAS is authorised to take all action necessary in respect of
book‑entry securities to enable the MAS in its own capacity to
perform its obligations as depositary with respect to such securities.

Transfers and pledges of book‑entry securities

 20.—(1) A transfer or pledge of a book‑entry security to the MAS
or to the Government or to any transferee or pledgee eligible to
maintain an appropriate account in its name with the MAS must be
effected, despite any law to the contrary, by the MAS making an
appropriate entry in its records of the security transferred or pledged.

 (2) The making of an entry in the records of the MAS under
subsection (1) —

       (a) has the effect of delivery of the book‑entry security as if the
            security had been issued in the form of an engraved or a
            printed certificate;

       (b) has the effect of a taking of delivery by the transferee or
            pledgee;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
          Significant Infrastructure

2020 Ed.  Government Loan Act 2021                                  18

          (c) constitutes the transferee or pledgee a holder; and

(d) if a pledge, has the effect of vesting a security interest in
     favour of the pledgee.

 (3) A transfer or pledge of a book‑entry security effected in
accordance with this section has priority over any transfer or pledge
involving, or any interest in, the security effected or created in any
other manner before, on or after the date of the transfer or pledge in
accordance with this section.

Transfers and pledges effected by other means

 21.—(1) Despite section 20, a transfer or pledge of book‑entry
securities, or any interest in such securities, which is maintained by
the MAS in an account may be effected by any means that would be
effective to effect a transfer or pledge of book‑entry securities, or any
interest therein, if the securities were issued by the MAS in the form
of engraved or printed certificates.

 (2) The MAS must not be treated as —

       (a) a bailee for the purposes of notification of pledges of
            book‑entry securities not effected in accordance with
            section 20; or

       (b) a person in possession of book‑entry securities for the
            purposes of acknowledgment of transfers of such securities
            not effected in accordance with section 20.

 (3) Where a book‑entry security is recorded on the books of a
depositary institution for the account of the pledgor or transferor of
the security and the security is on deposit with the MAS in an
account, that depositary institution must, for the purposes of effecting
delivery of the book‑entry security to a purchaser or pledgee, be
treated as —

       (a) the bailee to which notification of the pledge of the
            securities may be given; and

       (b) the person in possession from which acknowledgment of
            the holding of the securities may be obtained.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
    Significant Infrastructure

19  Government Loan Act 2021                                  2020 Ed.

 (4) The MAS must not accept any notice or advice of a transfer or
pledge of any book‑entry security not effected in accordance with
section 20, and any such notice or advice is void.

 (5) The MAS may continue to deal with its depositor in accordance
with this Part despite any transfer or pledge not effected in
accordance with section 20.

MAS to be discharged by action on instructions

 22.—(1) The MAS is not liable for conversion or for participation
in any breach of fiduciary duty where the MAS has, in respect of
book‑entry securities maintained in accounts maintained by the
MAS —

       (a) effected pledges or made entries regarding the securities;
            or

       (b) transferred or delivered the securities,

according to the instructions of its depositor even though the
depositor had no right to dispose of or take any other action in
respect of the securities.

 (2) The MAS is fully discharged of its obligations under this Part by
the transfer or delivery of book‑entry securities upon the instructions
of its depositor.

Confirmation of transactions

 23.—(1) The MAS must, following any transaction affecting
book‑entry securities maintained for any depositor under this Part,
issue to each depositor a confirmation of the transaction in the form of
an advice (serially numbered or otherwise).

 (2) The advice referred to in subsection (1) must specify the amount
and description of the securities and any other pertinent transaction
data.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
             Significant Infrastructure

2020 Ed.     Government Loan Act 2021                               20

             PART 5

             REGULATIONS

Regulations

 24. The Minister may make regulations necessary or convenient to
be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Act,
including —

(a) prescribing the terms of issue of securities issued under this
     Act;

(b) prescribing the manner in which applications to take up
     securities issued under this Act must be made;

          (c) prescribing the manner in which securities are issued under
              this Act, which may include by syndicated arrangements or
              like arrangements involving financial institutions which
              agree to underwrite any issue of securities under this Act,
              be liable to subscribe for or to procure subscribers for
              securities issued under this Act, or provide other financial
              accommodation to the Government with respect to any
              securities issued under this Act; and

(d) providing for such saving, transitional, and other
     consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions as
     are necessary or expedient for the purposes of this Act.

Presentation to Parliament

 25. All Regulations must be presented to Parliament as soon as
possible after publication in the Gazette.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
                 LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

           SIGNIFICANT INFRASTRUCTURE
            GOVERNMENT LOAN ACT 2021

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 15 of 2021 — Significant Infrastructure Government Loan Act 2021

Bill           : 6/2021

First Reading  : 5 April 2021

Second and Third Readings : 10 May 2021

Commencement   : 3 August 2021

2. 2020 Revised Edition — Significant Infrastructure
                                    Government Loan Act 2021

Operation      : 31 December 2021

3. Act 8 of 2026 — Coastal Protection and Other Amendments Act 2026

Bill           : 2/2026

First Reading  : 3 February 2026

Second and Third Readings : 6 March 2026

Commencement   : 29 May 2026

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
.                                 ii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
       COMPARATIVE TABLE

SIGNIFICANT INFRASTRUCTURE
 GOVERNMENT LOAN ACT 2021

 The Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding
provisions in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.               Act 15 of 2021
2
[Omitted as having had effect]  2—(1)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (2)
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]  26—(1)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (2)
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]  27
[Omitted as having had effect]  28—(1)
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]     (2)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (3)
[Omitted as having had effect]  29—(1)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (2)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (3)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (4)
[Omitted as having had effect]  30—(1)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (2)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (3)
                                   (4)
                                31
                                32
                                33

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
