THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                 SAINT ANDREW’S MISSION
                HOSPITAL ORDINANCE 1934

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                    2020 Ed.

         Saint Andrew’s Mission
         Hospital Ordinance 1934

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

     1.  Short title
     2.  Incorporation and rights on incorporation
     3.  Powers
     4.  Vesting of property

                                     OBJECTS

5. Objects and purposes
6. Application of income

                  MEMBERSHIP OF THE CORPORATION

7. Membership
8. Register of members
9. Right of membership

             FOUNDER AND PATRONS

10. Founder
11. Patrons

                                      OFFICERS
12. President and Vice-President

                                     TREASURER

13. Treasurer
14. Subscriptions, donations and legacies
15. Name and address of Treasurer

             AUDITORS

16. Auditor

             1

                                                      31.12.2021
2                 Saint Andrew’s Mission       2020 Ed.
                 Hospital Ordinance 1934
Section
   17. Chaplain           CHAPLAIN

                                   MANAGEMENT

18. Management and Board of Management
19. Nominated members
20. Original nominated members
21. Professional members
22. Elective members
23. Tenure of office of elective members
24. Casual vacancies
25. Medical officers and nursing sisters
26. Powers of Board of Management
27. Executive committee
28. Board to act notwithstanding any vacancy

     GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS OF THE CORPORATION

29. Annual general meeting
30. Special meeting

                                      GENERAL

31. Rules
32. Rules in Second Schedule to apply
33. Revocation, alteration and addition of rules
34. No revocation, alteration or addition of rules unless approved by

         Minister
35. Winding up
36. Saving of Government and other rights

         First Schedule — Particulars of Securities to Hold on Trusts
                                   for the Purposes Hereinafter Mentioned

         Second Schedule — Rules

An Ordinance to incorporate Saint Andrew’s Mission Hospital.

                                                         [28 December 1934]

  Whereas Mrs. Charlotte Elizabeth Ferguson-Davie, O.B.E., M.D.,
and her husband The Right Reverend Charles James Ferguson-Davie,
then Bishop of Singapore, in or about the year 1913 in association
          Saint Andrew’s Mission

2020 Ed.  Hospital Ordinance 1934  3

with the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel inaugurated a
medical mission under the style of St. Andrew’s Medical Mission,
which established and maintained in Singapore with the aid of
voluntary donations and subscriptions and grants from the Society for
the Propagation of the Gospel dispensaries and a temporary hospital
for indigent women and children without distinction of race, language
or creed:

  And whereas on the application of the St. Andrew’s Medical
Mission the Government agreed to provide land for the erection of a
permanent hospital and dispensary and by an indenture dated 2 March
1922 made between His Excellency the Governor of the Colony for
and on behalf of His Majesty the King of the one part and the Bishop
of Singapore Incorporated, Teo Choon Hian, Ernest Charteris
Holford Wolff, and Richard Myrrdin Williams (hereinafter called
“the Trustees”) of the other part a certain piece of land situate at
Erskine Road, Singapore, containing in area 675 m2 and marked
Lot 1325 T.S. III in the Government Resurvey Map was demised to
the Trustees for the term of 999 years upon trust to permit the same to
be used for the erection of a mission hospital and dispensary and to
include such buildings and rooms as may be necessary or expedient in
the opinion of the Committee of Management of the said hospital and
approved by Government and to be appropriated by the Committee as
a medical mission hospital and dispensary for women and children
without distinction of race, language or creed and to be known as the
St. Andrew’s Medical Mission Hospital and to be managed in
connection with the St. Andrew’s Medical Mission at Singapore and
the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel:

  And whereas with the approval of the Government a building
suitable for the requirements of a hospital and dispensary has been
erected on the said piece of land with moneys raised by voluntary
donations or subscriptions:

  And whereas the building was completed and the hospital was
opened in the year 1923 and the hospital has since under the name of
Saint Andrew’s Mission Hospital been maintained and carried on as a
Christian mission hospital for poor women and children without
distinction of race, language or creed by means of voluntary
donations, subscriptions and grants-in-aid from the Society for the

                                   31.12.2021
   Saint Andrew’s Mission

4  Hospital Ordinance 1934  2020 Ed.

Propagation of the Gospel, the Singapore Diocesan Association, the
Government, and the Municipal Commissioners of the Town of
Singapore:

  And whereas since the year 1923 the hospital has been managed by
a Committee of Management constituted in the year 1923 in
accordance with the recommendations of Mr. E. C. H. Wolff,
M.C.S., and with the approval of St. Andrew’s Medical Mission
consisting of the Bishop of Singapore ex-officio Chairman,
2 members nominated by the Society for the Propagation of the
Gospel, 2 members nominated by the Singapore Diocesan
Association, one member representing the Presbyterian Church and
another representing the Wesleyan Church (now known as the
Methodist Episcopal Church) with the Secretary of St. Andrew’s
Medical Mission as Honorary Secretary and an Honorary Treasurer
Stanley James Vincent and 11 co-opted members, 2 from the
Trustees, 2 from the larger donors to the fund, 3 from substantial
subscribers, 2 from medical practitioners, 2 from the general public:

  And whereas the Committee of Management now called the Board
of Management consider it expedient that the Parochial Church
Council of Saint Andrew’s Cathedral should have the right to
nominate 2 members of the Board of Management to be constituted
by this Ordinance and 2 persons named in section 20 of this
Ordinance have accordingly been nominated by the Parochial Church
Council of Saint Andrew’s Cathedral:

  And whereas the said Treasurer has inscribed in a book kept by him
(hereinafter called “the Register of Subscribers”) the name of every
person (firm and corporation) who has made a donation of not less
than $500 to the building fund of the hospital:

  And whereas it is expedient that the constitution and objects of the
said Saint Andrew’s Mission Hospital be defined and declared by law
and that provision be made by law for the management of the affairs
and for the control of the property and funds thereof:

  And whereas the Committee of Management have received the
sums of money specified in the First Schedule hereto upon trust to
apply the same for the purposes therein described which sums of
          Saint Andrew’s Mission

2020 Ed.  Hospital Ordinance 1934  5

money are now invested in the manner described in the
First Schedule.

  It is hereby enacted by the Governor of the Straits Settlements with
the advice and consent of the Legislative Council thereof as follows:

Short title

 1. This Ordinance may be cited as the Saint Andrew’s Mission
Hospital Ordinance 1934.

Incorporation and rights on incorporation

 2. The persons constituting the present Committee of Management
of St. Andrew’s Mission Hospital and the persons who for the time
being are members of the Board of Management hereinafter
constituted and the persons and firms whose names are with their
consent inscribed in the register of members mentioned in section 8
hereof shall forever hereafter be one body corporate and politic by the
name of Saint Andrew’s Mission Hospital (hereinafter called “the
Corporation”) and by the same name shall have perpetual succession
and a common seal with power to break, alter and make anew the said
seal from time to time at their will and pleasure and by the same name
shall and may sue and be sued in all Courts and in all manner of
actions and suits and shall have power to do all other matters and
things incidental or appertaining to a body corporate.

Powers

 3. The Corporation may acquire, purchase, lease, take, hold and
enjoy movable and immovable property of every description and,
subject as hereinafter provided, may sell, convey, assign, surrender
and yield up, mortgage, demise, re-assign, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any movable or immovable property vested in the
Corporation upon such terms as to the Corporation may seem fit.

                                   31.12.2021
   Saint Andrew’s Mission

6  Hospital Ordinance 1934  2020 Ed.

Vesting of property

 4. The said piece of land (being Lot 1325 T.S. III) demised to the
Trustees by the said indenture together with the buildings erected
thereon (which land and buildings are hereinafter called “the
Hospital”) are hereby vested in the Corporation for the residue of
the term of 999 years now subsisting therein for the purposes of this
Ordinance freed from the trusts declared in the said indenture but
subject to the terms and conditions therein contained and all chattels,
moneys, bonds, securities and property belonging to Saint Andrew’s
Mission Hospital or any trustees on its behalf are hereby vested in the
Corporation but as to the bonds or securities specified in the
First Schedule hereto upon and for the trusts and purpose more
particularly specified in the First Schedule hereto.

                                   OBJECTS

Objects and purposes

 5. The objects and general purposes for which the Corporation is
established and incorporated are —

       (a) to take over the property vested in the Corporation by
            section 4 hereof and to carry on and maintain the Hospital
            with all necessary furniture and other equipment as a
            Christian mission hospital and dispensary for the treatment
            as in-patients or out-patients of women and children
            suffering from disease or accident without distinction of
            race, language or creed;

       (b) to instruct women in the proper care of their children;

       (c) to train Asiatic girls to nurse women and children;

       (d) to offer to those who desire it a knowledge of Christianity;

       (e) to employ medical, surgical and pharmaceutical officers,
            nurses and attendants for the purposes aforesaid, and to
            provide and supply all such medical, surgical, and
            pharmaceutical appliances and things, and all such
            provisions and necessaries as may be required for the
            purposes aforesaid or any of them;
          Saint Andrew’s Mission

2020 Ed.  Hospital Ordinance 1934  7

          (f) to solicit and accept and receive subscriptions, donations,
              devises and bequests (whether of immovable or movable
              property and whether absolute or conditional) for the
              general purposes of the Corporation or for any special
              purpose of the Corporation or subject to any trust;

(g) to purchase or otherwise acquire land for any estate or
     interest and to erect buildings and maintain, alter and
     improve the same (including the Hospital) and to provide
     the same with light, water, drainage and other necessities;

(h) to raise money for any of the above purposes or other
     purposes of the Corporation by mortgaging or charging all
     or any of the property of the Corporation (other than the
     Hospital) with capital sums or with terminable annuities
     for lives or years;

          (i) to hold, control and administer the moneys, funds,
              securities and property movable and immovable hereby
              vested in the Corporation or hereafter given to or in any
              manner acquired by or being in the custody or control of
              the Corporation and the income thereof, in accordance with
              the trusts or for the purposes affecting the same
              respectively, or in the absence of any special trust or
              purpose, for the general purposes of the Corporation and in
              particular to invest any money for the time being requiring
              investment in any investment authorised by law for trust
              funds or in the purchase of immovable property;

          (j) to do all such other lawful things as are incidental or
              conducive to the attainment of the above objects.

                                   31.12.2021
   Saint Andrew’s Mission

8  Hospital Ordinance 1934  2020 Ed.

Application of income

 6. The income of the Corporation shall be applied solely towards
the promotion of the objects of the Corporation as set forth in this
Ordinance, and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly
or indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or otherwise howsoever by
way of profits to the members of the Corporation:

 Provided that nothing herein contained shall prevent the payment in
good faith of remuneration to any officers or servants of the
Corporation or to any member thereof in return for services
actually rendered to the Corporation or the payment of interest
upon money borrowed from any member of the Corporation, or the
payment to the donor of any money or securities or his or her nominee
or nominees of any annuity by way of annual interest guaranteed by
the Corporation on the amount of such gift during a period not
exceeding the life of the donor or such nominee or nominees.

              MEMBERSHIP OF THE CORPORATION

Membership

 7.—(1) The persons who are for the time being members of the
Board of Management hereinafter constituted shall be members of
the Corporation and in addition the Board of Management may
appoint, with their consent, 3 classes of members of the Corporation
namely —

       (a) permanent members;

       (b) ordinary members; and

       (c) honorary members.

Permanent members

 (2) The persons named in the Register of Subscribers
abovementioned, and every person who shall have subscribed in
the aggregate the sum of $500, including subscriptions made to the
Building Committee or the Committee of Management shall be
entitled to be members for life or in the case of a firm or corporation
till the dissolution of such firm or corporation and shall be called
permanent members.
                  Saint Andrew’s Mission

2020 Ed.          Hospital Ordinance 1934  9

Ordinary members

 (3) Every person who in any calendar year shall have subscribed the
sum of $12 (twelve dollars) shall be entitled to be a member for the
residue of that year, and the next following year and shall be called an
ordinary member.

Honorary members

 (4) A person may be elected an honorary member by the Board of
Management hereinafter constituted in recognition of signal services
to the Hospital and shall be a member for life or until he retires.

Register of members

 8.—(1) A register of members of the Corporation shall be kept in
which shall be inscribed the names of all persons and firms who are
qualified and consent to become members of the Corporation.

Retirement of any member

 (2) Any member who shall desire to retire shall signify such desire
in writing to the Secretary and thereupon his name shall be removed
from the register of members.

Right of membership

 9. The right of membership is not transferable or transmissible and
shall cease upon a member ceasing to be a member by death or
otherwise.

                       FOUNDER AND PATRONS
Founder

 10. Mrs. Charlotte Elizabeth Ferguson-Davie, O.B.E., M.D., who
was the founder of the Hospital shall be called the Founder.

Patrons
 11. Lady Ella Guillemard who since the year 1927 has been a

Patron of the Hospital shall be a Patron and other Patrons may be
elected from time to time by the Board of Management hereinafter
constituted.

                                                                                              31.12.2021
    Saint Andrew’s Mission

10  Hospital Ordinance 1934   2020 Ed.

    OFFICERS

President and Vice-President

 12. The Bishop of Singapore for the time being shall be President of
the Corporation and he may from time to time appoint and remove a
Vice-President.

                                TREASURER

Treasurer

 13. There shall be a Treasurer of the Corporation who may be an
honorary or salaried officer. The first Treasurer shall be Richard
Vivian Welch and future Treasurers shall be appointed by the Board.
The Treasurer may at any time be removed by the Board and he shall
perform such functions as shall be assigned to him by the Board.

Subscriptions, donations and legacies

 14. The Treasurer shall receive subscriptions, donations and
legacies to or for the benefit of the Hospital and shall issue
receipts for the same.

Name and address of Treasurer

 15. The name and address of the Treasurer shall be published in the
Gazette as soon as possible after his appointment.

                                 AUDITORS

Auditor

 16. There shall be an auditor or auditors of the Corporation. The
first auditors shall be Rennie Lowick & Company who shall hold
office until the annual meeting to be held in the year 1935. Future
auditors shall be appointed with their consent either at a salary or not
by the members of the Corporation at the annual meeting in each year
and shall hold office for one year. A retiring auditor may be
re-elected, and if a vacancy occurs in the office of auditor between
2 annual meetings a person shall be appointed by the Board to fill the
post during the remainder of the year.
          Saint Andrew’s Mission

2020 Ed.  Hospital Ordinance 1934  11

          CHAPLAIN

Chaplain

 17. There shall be a Chaplain of the Hospital who shall be a
clergyman of the Church of England and in priests’ orders and shall
be appointed by the Bishop of Singapore and shall perform such
religious services and other duties as shall be authorised or directed
by the Bishop of Singapore.

                              MANAGEMENT

Management and Board of Management

 18. The management of the Corporation and of the property and
affairs thereof shall be vested in a Board of Management (hereinafter
called “the Board”) consisting of the President, the Vice-President,
the Treasurer, 8 nominated members, 2 professional members and at
least 7 but not more than 15 elective members.

Nominated members

 19. The nominated members shall be appointed in accordance with
the rules in force under this Ordinance, 2 by the Society for the
Propagation of the Gospel, 2 by the Singapore Diocesan Association,
2 by the Parochial Church Council of St. Andrew’s Cathedral, one by
the Presbyterian Church and one by the Methodist Episcopal Church,
and a nominated member shall hold office until his death, resignation
or the revocation of his appointment in accordance with the rules.

Original nominated members

 20. The following persons shall be the first nominated members,
the Reverend Richard Richards and Mrs. Ursula Howard Ker,
appointed by the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel, Frank
Henry Geake and Gordon Alan Potts by the Singapore Diocesan
Association, the Venerable Graham White and Newnham Arthur
Worley by the Parochial Church Council of St. Andrew’s Cathedral,
the Reverend Stephen Band by the Presbyterian Church, the
Reverend Raymond Leroy Archer by the Methodist Episcopal
Church.

                                   31.12.2021
    Saint Andrew’s Mission

12  Hospital Ordinance 1934  2020 Ed.

Professional members

 21. The professional members of the Board shall be annually
elected by the other members of the Board from the Honorary
Consultants of the Hospital at the first meeting of the Board after the
annual general meeting. Dr. Joseph Sandys English and Dr. John
Smith Sloper shall be the first professional members.

Elective members

 22. The elective members of the Board shall be elected at the annual
general meeting of the Corporation from amongst the members of the
Corporation but no person shall be eligible for election whilst holding
any salaried office under the Corporation. The first elective members
of the Board shall be Mrs. Bridget Catherine Handy, Lim Kee Cheok,
Christopher Gervase Windle, Lim Teck Kim, Charles Valentine
Miles, Dr. Wee Hiap Tock, Miss Alice Florence King, Gordon Henry
Bowen, Mrs. Gertrude Lee, Dr. Brian Maurice Johns, Dr. Lim Eng
Hae, Mrs. Robina Menzies Thompson, Mrs. Edith Loveridge, Lim
Bock Kee and Mrs. Dorothy Mary Roberts.

Tenure of office of elective members

 23. All elective members of the Board shall hold office till their
successors are appointed at the annual general meeting and shall be
eligible for re-election.

Casual vacancies

 24. Casual vacancies among the elective and professional members
of the Board may be filled by the Board.
          Saint Andrew’s Mission

2020 Ed.  Hospital Ordinance 1934  13

Medical officers and nursing sisters

 25. The medical officers and nursing sisters required for service in
the Hospital shall from time to time be appointed by the Bishop from
missionary workers selected or approved by the Society for the
Propagation of the Gospel and may from time to time be removed by
him, and all matters relating to their conditions of service and
emoluments shall be determined by the Bishop. They shall
nevertheless be subject for the period of their appointment to any
general regulations made by the Board for the conduct of the
professional duties of the hospital staff:

 Provided always that the Board may, whenever necessary, with the
approval of the Bishop appoint any medical officer or nursing sister to
act temporarily until such time as some missionary worker selected or
approved by the said Society is available, or with the consent of the
said Society may engage any person approved by the Bishop as
medical officer or nursing sister for a definite period:

 Provided that nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to exempt
any person from the provisions of any Ordinance relating to the
registration of medical practitioners, dentists or pharmacists.

Powers of Board of Management

 26. Subject to the provisions of the preceding section the Board
shall have the entire superintendence and control of the Hospital and
of the property and affairs of the Corporation, and shall govern, direct
and decide all matters whatsoever connected with the administration
of the affairs of the Corporation and the accomplishment of the
objects and purposes thereof, and shall have and may exercise all the
powers conferred on and vested in the Corporation by this Ordinance,
and may make, vary and repeal such standing orders as they may from
time to time think fit in relation to any matters within the scope of
their authority, including the conduct and transaction of their
business, subject nevertheless to the rules in force under this
Ordinance.

                                   31.12.2021
                     Saint Andrew’s Mission

14                   Hospital Ordinance 1934  2020 Ed.

Executive committee

 27. The Board may delegate all or any of their powers, authorities
or discretions to an executive committee consisting of such members
of the Board as the Board shall think fit, or may be prescribed by the
rules in force under this Ordinance and also may from time to time
appoint other committees consisting wholly or partly of members of
the Board for any special purposes.

Board to act notwithstanding any vacancy

 28. The Board may act notwithstanding any vacancy in its body and
all acts done by any meeting of the Board or of a committee of the
Board shall, notwithstanding that it shall be afterwards discovered
that there was some defect in the appointment of any member or
members of the Board attending such meeting, or that they or any of
them were disqualified, be as valid as if every person purporting to act
as a member of the Board had been duly appointed, and was qualified
to be a member of the Board.

GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS OF THE CORPORATION

Annual general meeting

 29. A general meeting, to be called the annual general meeting,
shall be held annually not later than the month of April in each year
and at such meeting a report of all the affairs of the Hospital including
the number of in-patients and out-patients treated and a full account
of all the receipts and expenditure of the Corporation, together with a
balance sheet for the past year, shall be presented by the Board, and
there shall be elected the auditor for the ensuing year and elective
members of the Board in place of the out-going members.
                 Saint Andrew’s Mission

2020 Ed.         Hospital Ordinance 1934  15

Special meeting

 30. The Board may at any time and shall on a requisition signed by
not less than 10 members of the Corporation stating the objects of
such requisition summon a special meeting of the members of the
Corporation to be held not less than 3 weeks and not later than
6 weeks after the receipt of such requisition. If they neglect to do so
within 14 days after the receipt of any such requisition, the
requisitionists may summon such meeting. The notice convening
the meeting shall specify the particular matter or matters to be
discussed.

                                  GENERAL

Rules

 31. The Board may make rules subject to the approval of the
Minister not inconsistent with this Ordinance —

       (a) to regulate the calling of meetings of members of the
            Corporation, the quorum necessary for the transaction of
            business, the voting of members of the Corporation and the
            procedure for the transaction of business;

       (b) to regulate the proceedings of the Board, the calling of
            meetings, the quorum necessary for the transaction of
            business, the voting of the members of the Board and the
            procedure for the transaction of business;

       (c) for the appointment of an executive committee and other
            committees and for the delegation of all or any of the
            powers of the Board to any such committee;

       (d) for the appointment of a Secretary either honorary or as a
            salaried officer;

       (e) to regulate the exercise of executive power by the Board or
            the Executive Committee or other committees and the
            officers of the Corporation and the custody and use of the
            common seal;

        (f) to regulate the keeping and presentation of accounts and
            the register of members;

                                          31.12.2021
    Saint Andrew’s Mission

16  Hospital Ordinance 1934  2020 Ed.

    (g) to regulate the general administration of the Hospital;

    (h) generally to carry out the objects of this Ordinance.

Rules in Second Schedule to apply

 32. The rules set forth in the Second Schedule hereto shall be the
rules of the Corporation until the same shall be repealed or altered in
manner hereinafter provided.

Revocation, alteration and addition of rules

 33. The rules or any of them may from time to time be revoked,
altered or added to by the Board provided that due notice shall have
been given to the members of the Board of the proposed revocation,
alteration or addition and that such revocation, alteration or addition
is approved by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members
voting on the question.

No revocation, alteration or addition of rules unless approved
by Minister

 34. No revocation, alteration or addition of the rules set out in the
Second Schedule hereto shall come into operation until the same shall
have been approved by the Minister and shall have been published in
the Gazette.
            Saint Andrew’s Mission

2020 Ed.    Hospital Ordinance 1934  17

Winding up

 35. It shall be lawful for the Board with the sanction of a special
general meeting of the members of the Corporation called for the
purpose to wind up the affairs of the Corporation in such manner as
shall be directed by such special general meeting, or, in default of
such direction, as the Board shall think expedient, having due regard
to the liabilities of the Corporation for the time being; and on the
winding up of the Corporation the investments specified in the
First Schedule and any property whatsoever which may remain, after
satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities, shall not be paid or
distributed amongst the members of the Corporation or any of them,
but shall be given and transferred to some missionary association,
society or institution of the Church of England within the Diocese of
Singapore having objects similar or in part similar to the objects of
the Corporation, such association, society or institution to be
determined by a majority of three-fourths of the Board of
Management, with the approval of the Society for the Propagation
of the Gospel, and in default thereof by the General Division of the
High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Saving of Government and other rights

 36. Nothing in this Ordinance contained shall affect the rights of the
Government, all bodies politic and corporate and all others except
such as are mentioned in this Ordinance and those claiming by, from
or under them.

                                                                                                                [7/97]

                                     31.12.2021
                   Saint Andrew’s Mission

18                 Hospital Ordinance 1934     2020 Ed.

                             FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                                  Sections 4 and 35

     PARTICULARS OF SECURITIES TO HOLD ON TRUSTS FOR THE
                     PURPOSES HEREINAFTER MENTIONED

 (1) $30,000 — Singapore Municipal 5% Loan of 1928 and $12,000 —
Singapore Municipal 5% Loan of 1926 representing donations, bequests and
subscriptions for the endowment of beds or cots, to be held on trust to apply the
income for the maintenance of the object of the respective endowments as
specified hereunder:

    Amount of       Origin of endowment and
donation, bequest  name of bed or cot endowed

 or subscription

    $6,000         Sum set aside by the Committee of Management of
                   St. Andrew’s Mission Hospital from surplus at the request
                   of the Treasurer (S. J. Vincent) for endowment of
                   Foundation Bed No. 1.

    $6,000         Collected by public subscription as the result of a Flag Day
                   held in 1927, and allocated to the endowment of a bed called
                   C.E. Ferguson-Davie Bed.

    $6,000         Raised by private subscription for the endowment of a bed
                   to be called Ella Guillemard Bed.

    $6,000         Donation by Lady Hyndman Jones for endowment of
                   Hyndman Jones Bed.

    $12,000        Bequest under the will of the late Van der Beck for
                   endowment of Van der Beck Bed No. 1 and Van der Beck
                   Bed No. 2.

    $2,400         Donation by the children of the late Abraham Frankel for
                   endowment of Abraham Frankel Treasure Cot.

    $3,600         Donation by Mrs. Ladds in memory of her late husband
                   Captain Ladds, for many years resident in Singapore, for
                   endowment of Bagot-Hart Cot.

    ________

    $42,000

    ________
          Saint Andrew’s Mission

2020 Ed.  Hospital Ordinance 1934     19

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

 (2) The sum of $2,500 — now represented by $2,500, 5% Municipal Loan of
1926 donated to the St. Andrew’s Mission Hospital by the St. Andrew’s Medical
Mission in the year 1923 for the purchase of land as a site for a convalescent home
or to be used for the extension or enlargement of the Hospital.

                           SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                                Sections 32 and 34

                                            RULES

      GENERAL MEETINGS OF MEMBERS OF THE CORPORATION

Quorum

 1. The quorum for a general meeting shall be 10 persons being members or
representatives of members of the Corporation.

Notice
 2. An advertisement giving 10 days’ previous notice published in the Gazette
and in 2 English and one Chinese daily newspapers published in Singapore shall
be sufficient notice of a meeting.

Chairman

 3. The President, or in his absence the Vice-President, shall take the Chair at any
general meeting. In the absence of both, some person appointed by the Board shall
take the Chair.

Votes

 4. The voting at a general or special meeting shall be by show of hands but
5 members present may demand a poll and if so demanded a poll shall be taken in
such manner and at such time and place and either immediately or after an interval
or adjournment as the Chairman of the meeting directs.

Representative

 5. A member being a firm, company, corporation or society may authorise a
person to act as its representative to attend and vote at a meeting or on a poll and if
any question arises whether the person claiming to be such representative is duly
authorised the decision of the Chairman of the meeting shall be final. Any partner
of a firm may attend and vote personally.

                                      31.12.2021
                 Saint Andrew’s Mission

20               Hospital Ordinance 1934      2020 Ed.

                 SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

Votes on a poll

 6. On a poll a member may vote by a proxy appointed by an instrument in
writing in the usual common form or such form as may be approved by the
Chairman of the meeting provided such instrument be delivered to the Chairman
of the meeting before the vote is given.

Proceedings not invalidated by informality

 7. The proceedings at any meeting shall not be invalidated by reason of any
informality or irregularity in the convening thereof or otherwise, or any want of
qualification in any of the persons present or voting thereat.

Minutes

 8. A minute book shall be kept and proper entries made therein of all business
transacted at every meeting of the members of the Corporation.

                              BOARD OF MANAGEMENT

Meetings of the Board

 9. The Board may meet for the despatch of business, adjourn, and otherwise
regulate their meetings as they may think fit, and 5 members of the Board shall be
a quorum. The President or Vice-President or any 3 members of the Board may at
any time, and the Secretary shall, upon his or their request in writing, summon a
meeting of the Board. Notice of every meeting of the Board, stating the general
particulars of all business to be considered at such meeting, shall be sent by post to
each member of the Board at least 7 days before such meeting, unless urgent
circumstances require shorter notice; but the proceedings of any meeting shall not
be invalidated by any irregularity in respect of such notice.

President or Vice-President to be Chairman

 10. At every meeting of the Board the Chair shall be taken by the President, or in
his absence by the Vice-President, or in the absence of both by a Chairman to be
nominated by the members of the Board present.

Medical officer to attend all Board meetings

 11. It shall be the duty of the medical officer in charge to attend all meetings of
the Board.

Minutes

 12. A minute book shall be kept and proper entries made therein of all business
transacted at every meeting of the Board.
          Saint Andrew’s Mission

2020 Ed.  Hospital Ordinance 1934      21

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

Report to annual general meeting

 13. The Board shall make a report of their proceedings during the preceding year
to the annual general meeting of the Corporation, and shall cause accurate
accounts to be kept of all receipts and payments and such accounts shall be made
up to 31 December in each year and shall be laid with all proper vouchers before
the auditors, so that they may be duly audited one week at least before the annual
general meeting.

                               EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Constitution of Executive Committee

 14. The Board shall at their first meeting in every year after the annual general
meeting appoint an Executive Committee consisting of the President and the
Vice-President and the Treasurer (hereinafter called “the ex officio members”) and
not less than 5 or more than 7 other members of the Board.

Members to be appointed by the Board

 15. The Board may from time to time determine which of their members (other
than the ex officio members) shall be members of the Executive Committee but so
that at least 2 nominated members of the Board and at least 2 elective members of
the Board, and one professional member, shall be members of the Executive
Committee and subject as aforesaid may from time to time modify, dissolve or
reconstitute the Executive Committee and may make such regulations in regard
thereto as the Board may think expedient.

Powers of Executive Committee

 16. The Executive Committee shall subject to any regulations from time to time
made by the Board be competent to exercise all or any of the powers, authorities
and discretions vested in or exercisable by the Board.

Meetings of Executive Committee

 17. The Executive Committee may meet for the despatch of business, adjourn
and otherwise regulate their meetings as they may think fit, and until otherwise
determined by the Board, 4 shall be a quorum. The Executive Committee may act
notwithstanding any vacancy in their body, provided there be a quorum.

President or Vice-President to summon meetings

 18. The President or Vice-President or any 2 members of the Executive
Committee may at any time summon a meeting of the Executive Committee.

                                       31.12.2021
    Saint Andrew’s Mission

22  Hospital Ordinance 1934                                 2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

Medical officer to attend all Executive Committee meetings

 19. It shall be the duty of the medical officer in charge to attend all meetings of
the Executive Committee.

Other committees

 20. The Board may at any time appoint such other committees (consisting
wholly or partly of members of their own body, or others) as they may think fit,
and may prescribe the functions of and delegate any of their powers to any such
committee.

                             HONORARY CONSULTANTS

Honorary Consultants

 21. The Board may from time to time invite and appoint any physician, surgeon
or other qualified medical practitioner or qualified dentist to act as Honorary
Consultant of the Hospital for such period and to perform such duties as the Board
shall think fit, and as far as possible there shall always be at least 3 qualified
persons acting as Honorary Consultants.

                                MEDICAL COMMITTEE

Medical Committee

 22. The 2 professional members of the Board and the other Honorary
Consultants of the Hospital shall constitute a Medical Committee, who shall
have power to enquire into any matters of a professional nature relating to the staff
of the Hospital, and shall report their findings and recommendations to the Bishop
in the case of missionary workers and to the Board in the case of other workers. It
shall be the duty of the medical officer in charge to attend all meetings of the
Medical Committee.

                                        SECRETARY

Secretary

 23. There shall be a Secretary of the Corporation who may be an honorary or
salaried officer, and who may or may not be a member of the Board. The first
Secretary shall be Mrs. Dorothy Mary Roberts and future Secretaries shall be
appointed by the Board. The Secretary shall perform such functions as shall be
assigned to him by the Board and may at any time be removed by the Board.
                     Saint Andrew’s Mission

2020 Ed.             Hospital Ordinance 1934      23

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

          REGISTER OF MEMBERS OF THE CORPORATION

Register of members

 24. The Treasurer shall keep a register of members and shall enter therein the
names and addresses of all members and shall from time to time rectify the register
by deleting the names of members who shall from any cause cease to be members.

          NOMINATED MEMBERS OF BOARD OF MANAGEMENT

Appointment of nominated members of the Board

 25. The appointment or the revocation of the appointment of a nominated
member of the Board shall be in writing under the hand of the Appointor or some
person duly authorised to sign for the Appointor. Notice in writing of such
appointment or revocation shall be given to the Secretary of the Corporation and
no appointment or revocation shall take effect until such notice is given.

                                     COMMON SEAL

Use of common seal

 26. The Board shall procure a common seal and shall provide for the safe
custody thereof and the common seal shall not be affixed to any instrument except
by the authority of a resolution of the Board or the Executive Committee and in the
presence of at least 2 members of the Board and of the Secretary or some other
person as the Board or the Executive Committee may appoint and these
2 members and the Secretary or other person aforesaid shall sign every instrument
to which the common seal is so affixed in their presence.

                                                  31.12.2021
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

               SAINT ANDREW’S MISSION
               HOSPITAL ORDINANCE 1934

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Ordinance 42 of 1934 — Saint Andrew’s Mission Hospital Ordinance,
                                    1934

Bill                  : G.N. No. 656/1934

First Reading         : 16 April 1934

Second Reading        : 24 September 1934

Notice of Amendments  : 24 September 1934

Third Reading         : 17 October 1934

Commencement          : 7 November 1934 (assent)
                            28 December 1934 (publication)

2. 1936 Revised Edition — Saint Andrew’s Mission Hospital Ordinance
                                    (Chapter 263)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

3. 1955 Revised Edition — Saint Andrew’s Mission Hospital Ordinance
                                    (Chapter 315)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

4. Ordinance 72 of 1959 — Transfer of Powers (No. 2) Ordinance, 1959
   (Amendments made by section 2 read with the First Schedule to the above
   Ordinance)

Bill                  : 31/1959

First Reading         : 22 September 1959

Second Reading        : 11 November 1959

Notice of Amendments  : 11 November 1959

Third Reading         : 11 November 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959 (section 2 read
                            with the First Schedule)

5. G.N. No. S 220/1985 — Metrication (Saint Andrew’s Mission Hospital
                                   Ordinance) Order 1985

Commencement          : 23 August 1985

                                           31.12.2021
                      ii

6. 1985 Revised Edition — Saint Andrew’s Mission Hospital Ordinance
                                    (Chapter 376)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

7. Act 7 of 1997 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1997
   (Amendments made by section 6 read with item (30) of the First Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill                  : 6/1997

First Reading         : 11 July 1997

Second and Third Readings : 25 August 1997

Commencement          : 1 October 1997 (section 6 read with
                            item (30) of the First Schedule)

8. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 139 of the Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019
First Reading         : 7 October 2019
Second Reading        : 5 November 2019
Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019
Third Reading         : 5 November 2019
Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read

                            with item 139 of the Schedule)
                             iii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
    COMPARATIVE TABLE

SAINT ANDREW’S MISSION
HOSPITAL ORDINANCE 1934

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    1985 Ed.
5                          5—(1) to (7)
7—(1)                      7

   (2)                        (1)
   (3)                        (2)
   (4)                        (3)
FIRST SCHEDULE             SCHEDULE A
SECOND SCHEDULE            SCHEDULE B

                                                       31.12.2021
