THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                   PUBLIC ORDER ACT 2009

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
                                                                   2020 Ed.

         Public Order Act 2009

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         General interpretation
     1.  Meanings of “organising” and “taking part in”
     2.  Commissioner and authorised officers
     3.
     4.

                                        PART 2

                      ASSEMBLIES AND PROCESSIONS

 5. Regulation of public assemblies and public processions
 6. Advance notice of public assembly or public procession
 6A. Advance notice of events having prescribed crowd size
 7. Permit for public assembly or public procession
 8. Conditions applying to public assembly or public procession
 9. Form and validity of permit
10. When permit may be cancelled
11. Appeal to Minister
12. Prohibited areas
13. Power to prohibit assembly or procession in public interest
14. Unrestricted areas
15. Offences in prohibited areas, etc.
16. Other offences in relation to assemblies or processions
17. Defences
18. Obstructing free passage of any ambulance, etc.
19. Legal immunity for participant in lawful assembly or procession

                                        PART 3
                         SPECIAL EVENTS SECURITY

20. Interpretation of this Part
21. Declaration of special event by Commissioner

         1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                          2

Section   Enhanced security special event declared by Minister
   21A.   Statutory conditions of entry
   22.    Tickets sellers to inform of statutory conditions of entry
   23.    Inspection of personal property, etc., as condition of entry
   24.    Search of person
   25.    Prohibited items
   26.    Security screening at special event area of enhanced security
   27.    special event
          Power to require reasons for entry to special event area of
   28.    enhanced security special event
          Refusal of entry and removal from special event area of
   29.    enhanced security special event
          Directions to event organiser
   30.    Unauthorised entry to special event area of enhanced security
   31.    special event, etc.
          Interference with enhanced security special event, etc.
   32.    Interception, etc., of unmanned aircraft
   32A.   Saving of operation of Part 2
   33.

                                        PART 4

     POWERS TO PRESERVE AND MAINTAIN PUBLIC ORDER

34. Application of this Part
35. When power applies to behaviour
36. Direction to move on
37. Contravening direction to move on
38. Seizure of films of law enforcement activities
39. Obstruction of police officers under section 29 or 38 or

         Commissioner under section 30(11)

                                        PART 5

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

40. Power of arrest
41. Composition of offences
42. Owner or occupier of premises where unlawful assembly, etc.,

         takes place
43. Onus of proof
44. Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
45. Service of documents, etc.
46. Power to exempt

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
3  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

Section
   47. Regulations
   48. Application of other laws

An Act to regulate assemblies and processions in public places, to
  provide powers necessary for preserving public order and the safety
  of individuals at special event areas, to supplement other laws
  relating to the preservation and maintenance of public order in
  public places.

                                                              [9 October 2009]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Public Order Act 2009.

General interpretation
 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “act of terrorism” means any of the following:
              (a) a terrorist bombing offence within the meaning of the
                   Terrorism (Suppression of Bombings) Act 2007;
              (b) a terrorist act within the meaning of the Terrorism
                   (Suppression of Financing) Act 2002;
      “assembly” means a gathering or meeting (whether or not
         comprising any lecture, talk, address, debate or discussion) of
         persons the purpose (or one of the purposes) of which is —
              (a) to demonstrate support for or opposition to the views
                   or actions of any person, group of persons or any
                   government;
              (b) to publicise a cause or campaign; or
              (c) to mark or commemorate any event,

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     4

          and includes a demonstration by a person alone for any
          purpose mentioned in paragraph (a), (b) or (c);

“authorised officer”, in relation to any provision in this Act or
   the regulations, means any police officer authorised in that
   behalf by the Commissioner for the purposes of that
   provision;

“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Police appointed
   under the Police Force Act 2004;

“copy”, in relation to a film, means any article or thing in which
   the visual images or sounds comprising the film are
   embodied;

“declaration” means a declaration made by —

          (a) the Commissioner under section 21; or

          (b) the Minister under section 21 read with section 21A,

          as the case may be;

“enhanced security special event” means a special event that is
   the subject of a declaration made by the Minister;

“event” includes any rehearsal, sound and light testing and other
   ancillary activities necessary and incidental to an event;

“event organiser”, for an event, means a person who is
   responsible (whether fully or substantially) for the
   organisation and holding of the event and the receipt of
   revenue from the event, if any;

“permit” means a permit granted under section 7 in respect of a
   public assembly or public procession;

“place” includes any motor vehicle, train, vessel, aircraft or
   other conveyance;

“procession” means a march, parade or other procession,
   whether or not involving the use of vehicles or other
   conveyances —

          (a) comprising 2 or more persons gathered at a place of
               assembly to move from that place substantially as a

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
5  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

   body of persons in succession proceeding by a
   common route or routes; and

   (b) the purpose (or one of the purposes) of which is —

   (i) to demonstrate support for or opposition to the
       views or actions of any person, group of
       persons or any government;

   (ii) to publicise a cause or campaign; or

   (iii) to mark or commemorate any event,

   and includes any assembly held in conjunction with such
   procession, and a march by a person alone for any purpose
   mentioned in paragraph (b)(i), (ii) or (iii);

   “prohibited area” means any area that is specified in an order
      made under section 12;

   “public assembly” means an assembly held or to be held in a
      public place or to which members of the public in general are
      invited, induced or permitted to attend;

   “public place” means —

   (a) any place (open to the air or otherwise) to which
        members of the public have access as of right or by
        virtue of express or implied permission, whether or
        not on payment of a fee, whether or not access to the
        place may be restricted at particular times or for
        particular purposes, and whether or not it is an
        “approved place” within the meaning of the Public
        Entertainments Act 1958; or

   (b) a part of a place that the occupier of the place allows
        members of the public to enter, but only while the
        place is ordinarily open to members of the public;

   “public procession” means a procession in, to or from a public
      place;

   “regulated place” means any place to which Part 4 applies;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     6

“security officer” means an individual who is a licensed security
   officer within the meaning of the Private Security Industry
   Act 2007;

“special event” means an event declared by the Commissioner
   or the Minister (as the case may be) to be a special event;

“special event area”, in relation to a special event, means, for the
   period the declaration by the Commissioner or the Minister
   (as the case may be) for the event is in force —

          (a) the place or places stated in the declaration as the
               location or locations at which the event is or is to be;
               and

          (b) any place reasonably incidental to the holding of the
               event;

“unrestricted area” means a public place specified in an order
   made under section 14.

                                                                                                [23/2017; 28/2017]

 (2) Any reference in this Act to an assembly or a procession that is
unlawful under Part 2 is a reference to an assembly or a procession —

(a) in respect of which no permit has been granted under
     section 7 or no such permit is in force;

(b) which is held —

          (i) on a date or at a time which differs from the date or
              time specified in relation to the assembly or
              procession in the notice given under section 6; or

          (ii) in the case of a procession, along a route which
               differs from the route specified in relation to the
               procession in the notice given under section 6;

          (c) which is not in compliance with any requirement imposed
              by section 8(1) or any condition imposed under
              section 8(2) on organisers or persons taking part in that
              assembly or procession;

(d) which is held within a prohibited area and the holding
     thereof is prohibited by an order under section 12(1);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
7  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

   (e) the holding of which is prohibited by an order or a
       notification under section 13(1) or (2); or

   (f) which is held within an unrestricted area and the holding
       thereof is not in accordance with any condition that applies
       by virtue of section 14 to the organising or taking part in
       the assembly or procession.

Meanings of “organising” and “taking part in”

 3.—(1) In this Act, a reference to a person organising an assembly
or a procession is a reference to a person who is responsible for
holding, convening, forming or collecting the assembly or
procession, and includes —

       (a) any person who assists or promotes the holding,
            convening, forming or collecting of any assembly or
            procession; and

       (b) where any person will receive revenue from the sale (if
            any) of tickets to the assembly or procession, that person,

but does not include a person carrying on a demonstration by himself
or herself or marching alone.

 (2) A reference to a person or persons taking part in an assembly or
a procession includes (as the case may be) a person carrying on a
demonstration by himself or herself, or a march by a person alone, for
any purpose mentioned in the definitions of an assembly and a
procession, respectively, in section 2(1).

Commissioner and authorised officers

 4.—(1) The Commissioner is, subject to any general or special
directions of the Minister, responsible for the administration of this
Act and may perform the duties that are imposed and may exercise
the powers that are conferred upon the Commissioner by this Act.

 (2) The Minister may give the Commissioner directions of a
general character, and not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act,
as to the exercise of the powers and discretions conferred on the
Commissioner by, and the duties required to be discharged by the

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     8

Commissioner under, this Act; and the Commissioner must give
effect to the directions given.

 (3) The Commissioner may delegate the exercise of all or any of the
powers conferred or duties imposed upon the Commissioner by this
Act (except the power of delegation conferred by this subsection) to
any authorised officer, subject to the conditions or limitations that are
set out in this Act or that the Commissioner may specify by
directions; and any reference in this Act to the Commissioner
includes a reference to such an authorised officer.

 (4) In exercising any powers or duties under a delegation under
subsection (3), an authorised officer must comply with any direction
of the Commissioner.

                                    PART 2

                  ASSEMBLIES AND PROCESSIONS

Regulation of public assemblies and public processions

 5.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a public assembly and
a public procession must not take place unless —

       (a) the Commissioner is notified under section 6 of the
            intention to hold the public assembly or public
            procession, and a permit is granted under section 7 in
            respect of that public assembly or public procession, as the
            case may be; and

       (b) the holding of that public assembly or public procession is
            not prohibited under section 12 or 13.

 (2) This section does not apply to —

       (a) an assembly or a procession exempted from this section
            under section 46; and

       (b) an assembly or a procession within any part of an
            unrestricted area not falling within a special event area
            of an enhanced security special event.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
9                  Public Order Act 2009                     2020 Ed.

Advance notice of public assembly or public procession

 6.—(1) Notice of intention to organise a public assembly or public
procession must be given in accordance with subsections (2) and (3)
to the Commissioner in the prescribed manner accompanied by an
application for a permit in respect of that assembly or procession, as
the case may be.

 (2) Notice under this section must be given not less than the
prescribed period before the date on which the assembly or
procession (as the case may be) is to be held.

   (3) Notice under this section must —

   (a) be given in writing in such form as may be prescribed;

   (b) be given —

   (i) if it is a demonstration carried on by a person by
       himself or herself or a march by a person alone, by
       that person; and

   (ii) in any other case, by any of the organisers of the
        assembly or procession; and

   (c) contain all the following particulars:

   (i) the location, date and time where and when the
       assembly or procession (as the case may be) is to be
       held and the estimated time at which it will disband;

   (ii) in the case of a procession, the location, time of
        commencement and duration of any assembly to be
        held in conjunction with the procession and the
        route, the places (if any) at which the procession will
        halt and time for which it will remain stationary in
        each such place;

   (iii) the number of persons likely to take part in it;

   (iv) the purpose of the assembly or procession;

   (v) the name, address and telephone number of the
        organiser of the assembly or procession, and of a
        person able to act (if necessary) in place of the
        organiser for the purposes of section 8(1)(a);

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     10

          (vi) the arrangements for its control being made by the
               person proposing to organise it;

          (vii) such other particulars and information relating to the
                assembly or procession as may be prescribed;

          (viii) such other particulars and information relating to that
                 particular assembly or procession (as the case may
                 be) as the Commissioner may require.

 (4) Despite subsection (2), the Commissioner may, and must in any
case where the Commissioner is reasonably satisfied that earlier
notice could not have been given, accept shorter notice than is as
mentioned in that subsection.

 (5) In cases where the Commissioner has decided not to accept
shorter notice than is as mentioned in subsection (2), the
Commissioner must as soon as practicable inform in writing the
person purporting to give such notice of the Commissioner’s
decision.

Advance notice of events having prescribed crowd size

 6A.—(1) Without affecting section 6, special notice of intention to
organise an event (whether or not comprising or involving an
assembly or a procession) must be given to the Commissioner in the
prescribed manner, with the prescribed information, by any event
organiser for the event if the event organiser reasonably expects more
than a prescribed number of individuals to participate in or to attend
the event at any time during the holding of the event.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (2) Unless the Commissioner accepts shorter notice under
subsection (3), special notice under this section must be given not
less than the prescribed period —

       (a) before the proposed date of the event; or

       (b) in the case where the event is to take place during a
            proposed period, before the beginning of that proposed
            period.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
11  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

 (3) The Commissioner may, and must in any case where the
Commissioner is reasonably satisfied that earlier notice could not
have been given, accept shorter notice than is as mentioned in
subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Minister may prescribe
different numbers of individuals for different classes of events.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (5) An event organiser who fails to comply with subsection (1) or
(2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

Permit for public assembly or public procession

 7.—(1) The Commissioner must, upon receipt of any notice and
application under section 6 for a permit in respect of a proposed
public assembly or public procession, have regard to the information
provided in the notice and any other information available to the
Commissioner in relation to the proposed public assembly or public
procession (as the case may be) and may thereafter either —

       (a) grant a permit (with or without conditions) in respect of the
            proposed public assembly or public procession, as the case
            may be; or

       (b) refuse to grant a permit in respect of the proposed public
            assembly or public procession.

 (2) The Commissioner may refuse to grant a permit for a proposed
public assembly or public procession in respect of which notice under
section 6 has been given if the Commissioner has reasonable ground
for apprehending that the proposed public assembly or public
procession may —

       (a) occasion public disorder, or damage to public or private
            property;

       (b) create a public nuisance;

       (c) give rise to an obstruction in any public road;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     12

(d) place the safety of any person in jeopardy;

          (e) cause feelings of enmity, hatred, ill will or hostility
              between different groups in Singapore;

          (f) glorify the commission or preparation (whether in the past,
              in the future or generally) of acts of terrorism or any
              offence or otherwise have the effect of directly or
              indirectly encouraging or otherwise inducing members of
              the public to commit, prepare or instigate acts of terrorism
              or such an offence;

(g) be held within or enter a prohibited area, or an area to
     which an order or a notification under section 13 applies;
     or

(h) be directed towards a political end and be organised by, or
     involve the participation of, any of the following persons:

          (i) an entity that is not a Singapore entity;

              (ii) an individual who is not a citizen of Singapore.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (3) During the period an activation order has effect under the Public
Order and Safety (Special Powers) Act 2018, the Commissioner may
refuse to issue any permit for or in respect of a public assembly or
public procession to be held within or enter an area which is the target
of a special authorisation granted under that Act as a result of the
activation order.

                                                                                                           [26/2018]

 (4) In this section —

“directed towards a political end” means —

          (a) promoting the interests of a political party or other
               group of persons organised, in Singapore or
               elsewhere, for political objects;

          (b) influencing, or seeking to influence, the outcome of
               elections or referendums, whether in Singapore or
               elsewhere;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
13  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

    (c) influencing, or seeking to influence, the policies or
        decisions of national or regional governments,
        whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

    (d) influencing, or seeking to influence, the policies or
         decisions of persons on whom public functions are
         conferred by or under the law of Singapore or of a
         country or territory outside Singapore;

    (e) influencing, or seeking to influence, the policies or
        decisions of persons on whom functions are
        conferred by or under international agreements;

    (f) influencing, or seeking to influence, public opinion
        on a matter which, in Singapore or elsewhere, is a
        matter of public controversy;

    (g) bringing about, or seeking to bring about, changes of
         the law in the whole or a part of Singapore or
         elsewhere, or otherwise influencing, or seeking to
         influence, the legislative process in Singapore or
         elsewhere; or

    (h) promoting or opposing political views, or public
         conduct relating to activities that have become the
         subject of a political debate, in Singapore or
         elsewhere;

    “Singapore entity” means a Singapore‑controlled corporation, a
       Singapore‑controlled partnership or a Singapore‑controlled
       unincorporated association;

    “Singapore‑controlled corporation” means a body corporate
       that —

    (a) is incorporated under any written law in Singapore;

    (b) has a management body (called an executive, a board
         of directors or otherwise), the majority of whose
         members (called directors, partners or otherwise) are
         citizens of Singapore; and

    (c) has a majority of members who are citizens of
        Singapore or Singapore entities or, in the case of a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     14

          company having a share capital, the majority of
          whose shares are held by citizens of Singapore or
          Singapore entities;

“Singapore‑controlled partnership” means —

          (a) a firm registered under the Business Names
               Registration Act 2014 in Singapore, the majority of
               whose partners are citizens of Singapore or one or
               more Singapore entities; or

          (b) a limited partnership registered under the Limited
               Partnerships Act 2008 in Singapore —

          (i) the majority of whose general partners as
              defined in that Act are citizens of Singapore
              or Singapore entities; and

          (ii) the majority of whose limited partners as
               defined in that Act are citizens of Singapore
               or Singapore entities;

“Singapore‑controlled unincorporated association” means an
   unincorporated association that —

          (a) is formed in Singapore under any written law;

          (b) has a management body (called a committee, council
               or otherwise), the majority of whose members are
               citizens of Singapore; and

          (c) has a majority of members who are citizens of
              Singapore or Singapore entities.

                                                                                                 [23/2017]

Conditions applying to public assembly or public procession

 8.—(1) At every public assembly or public procession —

       (a) there must be present throughout the assembly or
            procession either the person who organised the assembly
            or procession or, if he or she is not present, a person
            nominated by him or her, in writing, to act in his or her
            place; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
15  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) good order and public safety must be maintained
         throughout the assembly or procession, as the case may be.

 (2) In granting a permit for a public assembly or public procession,
the Commissioner may impose on the organisers of, and the persons
taking part in, the assembly or procession such conditions specified in
the permit and relating to the assembly or procession as in the
Commissioner’s opinion are necessary to prevent the assembly or
procession (as the case may be) being carried out to result in anything
mentioned in section 7(2)(a) to (h).

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (3) Without limiting subsection (2), the conditions may, in
particular, impose requirements as to —

    (a) the number of persons who may take part in the public
         assembly or public procession;

    (b) the number and size of banners, placards, displays or other
         paraphernalia used;

    (c) the engagement of such number of marshals and security
        officers as may be necessary to ensure that good order and
        public safety are maintained throughout the assembly or
        procession, as the case may be; and

    (d) the place or places where the public assembly or public
         procession may, or may not, be carried on.

 (4) The Commissioner may, if the Commissioner reasonably
believes that it is necessary in order to prevent anything mentioned
in section 7(2)(a) to (h) from happening —

    (a) impose additional conditions on those organising or taking
         part in an assembly or a procession authorised by a permit;
         or

    (b) amend any condition previously imposed under
         subsection (2) or paragraph (a),

and the senior police officer may give directions to those organising
or taking part in the assembly or procession to ensure the due
observance of any condition imposed under subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.               Public Order Act 2009                        16

 (5) Except where the context otherwise requires, any reference in
this Act to a condition imposed under subsection (2), includes a
reference to an additional condition or amendment to a condition
imposed under subsection (4).

(6) In this section —

“assembly” and “procession” include the period of first
   assembly of the assembly and procession, respectively, to
   the time it disbands;

“senior police officer” means the most senior in rank of the
   police officers present at the scene of the assembly or
   procession, or any one of them if there are more than one of
   the same rank.

Form and validity of permit

 9. A permit granted under section 7 must —

       (a) be in the form the Commissioner may determine;

       (b) contain the conditions subject to which it is granted; and

       (c) unless earlier cancelled by or under this Act, be valid —

               (i) in respect of the holding of the particular public
                   assembly or public procession specified in the
                   permit; or

              (ii) for the period (not exceeding one year) specified in
                   the permit.

When permit may be cancelled

 10.—(1) The Commissioner may, by written notice to the person to
whom the permit is granted, cancel the permit that has been granted.

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), the Commissioner may, by
written notice, cancel a permit that has been granted to any person
if —

       (a) the permit has been reported lost or stolen;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
17  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) there is reasonable cause to believe that the permit has been
         obtained by means of any false statement or any statement
         that is false in a material particular;

    (c) the Commissioner becomes aware of a circumstance that
        would have required or permitted the Commissioner to
        refuse the permit to the person had the Commissioner been
        aware of the circumstance immediately before granting the
        permit; or

    (d) there is reasonable cause to believe that any condition of
         the permit has been contravened.

 (3) A permit which is granted for or in respect of a public assembly
or public procession is treated as cancelled immediately if —

    (a) a special authorisation is granted under section 11 of the
         Public Order and Safety (Special Powers) Act 2018
         pursuant to the giving of an activation order under that
         Act; and

       (b) the public assembly or public procession is being or is to be
            held within, or enter or is to enter, an area which is the
            target area of that special authorisation.

                                                                                                           [26/2018]

 (4) Every permit that is cancelled under subsection (1) or (3) is
upon its cancellation invalid and ceases to be in force.

                                                                                                           [26/2018]

Appeal to Minister

 11.—(1) If a person is aggrieved by the Commissioner’s decision
under this Part —

       (a) to refuse to grant a permit;

       (b) to cancel a permit; or

       (c) to impose any particular condition on a permit,

the person may, within 7 days after being notified of the decision (or a
longer period that the Minister allows in exceptional circumstances,
whether before or after the end of the 7 days), appeal to the Minister
whose decision is final.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     18

 (2) An appeal must be in writing, and specify the grounds on which
it is made.

 (3) After receiving an appeal under subsection (1), the Minister
must consider the appeal and —

(a) reject the appeal and confirm the Commissioner’s
     decision;

(b) allow the appeal in whole or in part and vary the
     Commissioner’s decision;

          (c) set aside the Commissioner’s decision and make a decision
              in substitution for it; or

(d) direct the Commissioner to reconsider the Commissioner’s
     decision,

and the appellant must be notified in writing of the Minister’s
decision in respect of the appellant’s appeal accordingly.

 (4) This section does not apply to or in relation to any cancellation
of a permit in the circumstances mentioned in section 10(3).

                                                                                                           [26/2018]

 (5) In this section, any reference to the Minister includes a reference
to any Minister of State designated by the Minister to hear any appeal
under this section in place of the Minister.

Prohibited areas

 12.—(1) If, in relation to any public place, the Minister is of the
opinion that, having regard to the extent of powers exercisable under
section 13, it is necessary in the public interest to do so, the Minister
may, by order in the Gazette, prohibit the holding of all public
assemblies or public processions or both in the public place (called in
this Act a prohibited area).

 (2) An order made under subsection (1) may exclude any assembly
or procession, or any assembly or procession of any class or
description, specified in the order from the prohibition in the order.

 (3) An order made under subsection (1) has the effect of cancelling
any previous permit granted under section 7 in relation to any public

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
19  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

assembly or public procession, the holding of which is prohibited by
the order.

 (4) All orders made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Power to prohibit assembly or procession in public interest

 13.—(1) If, in the case of any proposed public assembly or public
procession, the Minister is of the opinion that it is necessary in the
public interest to do so, the Minister may, by order in the Gazette,
prohibit the holding of that public assembly or public procession.

 (2) If, in relation to any public place and any period of time not
exceeding 28 days, the Commissioner is of the opinion that, having
regard to —

       (a) any serious public disorder or serious damage to public or
            private property which may result from public assemblies
            or public processions of a particular class or description in
            that public place during that period;

       (b) any serious public nuisance or obstruction in any public
            road, or threat to the safety of persons in that public place,
            that may result from such public assemblies or public
            processions;

       (c) any serious impact which such public assemblies or public
            processions may have on relations between different
            groups in Singapore;

       (d) any undue demands which such public assemblies or
            public processions may cause to be made on the police or
            military forces; and

       (e) the extent of powers exercisable under subsection (1),

it is necessary in the public interest to do so, the Commissioner may,
with the concurrence of the Minister, by notification in the Gazette,
prohibit the holding of all public assemblies or public processions or
both, or of that class or description, in that public place during that
period.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     20

 (3) An order made under subsection (1) in relation to an assembly
or a procession has the effect of cancelling any previous permit
granted under section 7 in relation to that assembly or procession.

 (4) A notification made under subsection (2) has the effect of
cancelling any previous permit granted under section 7 in relation to
any assembly or procession, the holding of which is prohibited by the
notification.

Unrestricted areas

 14.—(1) If the Minister is of the opinion that, having regard to the
natural environment of any public place and the likelihood of any
serious disruption to the life of the community (such as but not
limited to the rights of members of the public to enjoy the natural
environment and the rights of persons to carry on business), it is
appropriate to allow citizens and other persons to exercise the right to
participate in assemblies and processions in that public place, the
Minister may, by order in the Gazette, designate that public place
(called in this Act an unrestricted area) to be an area whereby no
notice under section 6, and no permit under section 7, is required for
the holding of all assemblies or processions or both in that public
place.

 (2) An order made under subsection (1) must —

       (a) describe the unrestricted area, whether by means of a
            description, map or other document;

       (b) state any period for which the order is in force; and

       (c) state the conditions (if any) that apply to the organising of,
            or taking part in, any assembly or procession within that
            unrestricted area.

 (3) An order made under subsection (1) may —

       (a) provide that any contravention of any condition in the
            order that is applicable to the organising of, or taking
            part in, any assembly or procession within the unrestricted
            area subject to the order shall be an offence punishable
            with a fine not exceeding $10,000 or with imprisonment
            for a term not exceeding 6 months or with both; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
21  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) provide for any transitional, saving and other
         consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions as
         the Minister considers necessary or expedient.

 (4) However, an order under subsection (1) designating a public
place as an unrestricted area immediately expires if —

    (a) a special authorisation is granted under section 11 of the
         Public Order and Safety (Special Powers) Act 2018
         pursuant to the giving of an activation order under that
         Act; and

       (b) the public place, or any part of the public place, falls within
            the target area of the special authorisation.

                                                                                                           [26/2018]

 (5) All orders made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

(6) This section has effect subject to section 33.

Offences in prohibited areas, etc.

 15.—(1) A person who organises an assembly or a procession the
holding of which the person knows or ought reasonably to know is
prohibited by an order under section 12(1) or 13(1) or a notification
under section 13(2) (as the case may be) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (2) A person who takes part in an assembly or a procession the
holding of which the person knows or ought reasonably to know is
prohibited by an order under section 12(1) or 13(1) or a notification
under section 13(2) (as the case may be) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

Other offences in relation to assemblies or processions

 16.—(1) Each person who organises a public assembly or public
procession —

       (a) in respect of which no permit has been granted under
            section 7 or no such permit is in force, where a permit is
            required by this Act;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     22

(b) which is held —

          (i) on a date or at a time which differs from the date or
              time specified in relation to the assembly or
              procession in the notice given under section 6; or

          (ii) in the case of a procession, along a route which
               differs from the route specified in relation to the
               procession in the notice given under section 6; or

          (c) which is not in compliance with any condition imposed
              under section 8(2) on persons organising that assembly or
              procession,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall, subject to subsection (3), be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (2) Each person who takes part in a public assembly or public
procession —

(a) in respect of which no permit has been granted under
     section 7 or no such permit is in force, where a permit is
     required by this Act;

(b) which is held —

          (i) on a date or at a time which differs from the date or
              time specified in relation to the assembly or
              procession in the notice given under section 6; or

          (ii) in the case of a procession, along a route which
               differs from the route specified in relation to the
               procession in the notice given under section 6; or

          (c) which is not in compliance with any requirement imposed
              by section 8(1)(b) or any condition imposed under
              section 8(2) on persons taking part in that assembly or
              procession,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall, subject to subsection (3), be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $3,000.

 (3) Where a person who is convicted or found guilty of an offence
under subsection (1) or (2) is a repeat offender, the person shall be
liable on conviction —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
23  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

    (a) if the person is one who organises an assembly or a
         procession — to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
         imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
         both; and

    (b) if the person is one who takes part in an assembly or a
         procession — to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

 (4) A person organising or taking part in an assembly or a
procession who knowingly fails to comply with any direction of
the senior police officer given under section 8(4) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) in the case of a person organising an assembly or a
         procession — to a fine not exceeding $10,000; and

    (b) in the case of a person taking part in an assembly or a
         procession — to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (3), a person is a repeat offender
in relation to an offence under subsection (1) or (2) if the person who
is convicted, or found guilty, of an offence under subsection (1) or (2)
(called the current offence) has been convicted or found guilty of —

    (a) an offence under subsection (1) or (2);

    (b) an offence under section 5(4) of the Miscellaneous
         Offences (Public Order and Nuisance) Act 1906 as in
         force immediately before 9 October 2009; or

    (c) an offence under any rules made under section 5(1) of the
        Miscellaneous Offences (Public Order and Nuisance)
        Act 1906 as in force immediately before 9 October
        2009, in relation to any assembly or procession in any
        public road, public place or place of public resort held
        without a permit under those rules or in contravention of
        any term or condition of such a permit,

on at least one other occasion within the period of 5 years
immediately before the date on which the person is convicted or
found guilty of the current offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     24

(6) This section does not apply to —

(a) an assembly or a procession exempted from this section
     under section 46; and

(b) an assembly or a procession within an unrestricted area not
     falling within a special event area of an enhanced security
     special event.

                                                                                                 [23/2017]

Defences

 17.—(1) In any proceedings for an offence under section 16(1)(a)
or (2)(a), it is a defence for the person charged to prove that the
person did not know, and neither suspected nor had reason to suspect,
that no permit had been granted under section 7 in respect of the
assembly or procession or that no such permit is in force, as the case
may be.

 (2) In any proceedings for an offence under section 16(1)(b) or
(2)(b), it is a defence for the person charged to prove that —

       (a) he or she did not know, and neither suspected nor had
            reason to suspect, the difference in date, time or route; or

       (b) the difference arose from —

               (i) circumstances beyond his or her control;

              (ii) something done in compliance with conditions
                   imposed under section 8(2); or

             (iii) something done with the agreement of a police
                   officer not below the rank of sergeant or by the senior
                   police officer’s direction under section 8(4).

 (3) In any proceedings for an offence under section 16(1)(c) or
(2)(c), it is a defence for the person charged to prove that he or she did
not know, and neither suspected nor had reason to suspect, that the
assembly or procession was not in compliance with any of the
conditions of the permit for the assembly or procession.

 (4) In any proceedings for an offence under section 16(4), it is a
defence for the person charged to prove that his or her failure to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
25  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

comply with a direction of the senior police officer given under
section 8(4) arose from circumstances beyond his or her control.

Obstructing free passage of any ambulance, etc.

 18. Where a person at, or in relation to, an assembly or a procession
conducted pursuant to a permit —

       (a) acts in a disorderly manner for the purpose of preventing
            the transaction of the business for which the assembly or
            procession assembled;

       (b) obstructs the free passage of any ambulance, fire engine or
            vehicle belonging to the Singapore Police Force or the
            Singapore Civil Defence Force or, otherwise than in the
            manner and to the extent authorised by the permit relating
            to that assembly or procession, impedes or disrupts the use
            by members of the public in general of any road; or

       (c) incites other persons to do so,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Legal immunity for participant in lawful assembly or
procession

 19. If an assembly or a procession —

       (a) is the subject of a permit;

       (b) is peaceful; and

       (c) is held in accordance with the conditions imposed on the
            permit,

a person who takes part in the assembly or procession, does not,
merely because of his or her taking part, incur any civil or criminal
liability because of the obstruction of a public place.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     26

                             PART 3

          SPECIAL EVENTS SECURITY

Interpretation of this Part

20. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

“approved person”, in relation to any power under section 22,
   24, 27, 28 or 29, means any of the following persons
   approved by the Commissioner in writing to exercise the
   power under that provision at or in relation to a special event
   area specified in that approval:

          (a) any member of an auxiliary police force;

          (b) any security officer who is employed by, or whose
               services are supplied to, the occupier of the special
               event area;

“entrant”, in relation to a special event area, means a person who
   is about to enter or is in the area;

“garment” includes a cloak, coat or shirt;

“hand-held scanner” means a device that may be passed over or
   around a person or a person’s personal property to detect
   metal, objects or other substances;

“occupier”, in relation to a special event area, includes the event
   organiser of the special event at that special event area;

“personal property”, in relation to a person, means things carried
   by the person or things apparently in the immediate control of
   the person, but does not include clothing being worn by the
   person;

“place” includes an area;

“prohibited item”, in relation to a special event, means any thing
   or animal that is stated to be a prohibited item in the
   notification in respect of the event under section 22;

“prohibited item permit” means a permit of that name granted
   under section 26(4) for a specific prohibited item or a class of
   prohibited items;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
27  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

    “remotely piloted aircraft” and “remotely piloted aircraft
       system” have the same respective meanings as assigned in
       the Air Navigation Act 1966;

    “search” includes —

    (a) a search of a person conducted by quickly running the
         hands over the person’s outer garments; and

    (b) an examination of anything worn or carried by the
         person;

    “statutory condition of entry”, in relation to a special event,
       means a condition that is stated in the notification concerning
       the event under section 22 to be a statutory condition of entry
       to the special event area;

    “unmanned aircraft” means an aircraft that may be flown or used
       without any individual on board the aircraft to operate it, and
       excludes a balloon or kite;

    “unmanned aircraft system” means an unmanned aircraft and its
       associated elements;

    “vehicle” includes an aircraft and a boat;

    “X-ray machine” means a device through which a person’s
       belongings are passed and X-rayed.

                                                [16/2015; 23/2017]

Declaration of special event by Commissioner

 21.—(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3) and section 21A, the
Commissioner may declare an event to be a special event for the
purposes of this Part.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (2) In deciding whether to make a declaration and the scope of the
declaration, the Commissioner is to have regard to —

       (a) the size of the event;

       (b) the number and prominence of persons who are likely to
            attend the event;

       (c) the likely media coverage of the event;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     28

(d) the likely contribution that the event will make to
     Singapore;

          (e) the commercial arrangements for the event;

          (f) the event management experience and expertise of the
              event organiser;

(g) the factors affecting the operational organisation of the
     event, including measures taken or to be taken by the event
     organiser in relation to the planning of the event, such as —

          (i) preparation of traffic and transport management
              plans;

          (ii) emergency management plans;

          (iii) security plans and consultation with police and
                emergency services; and

          (iv) crowd management;

(h) Singapore’s obligations for holding the event; and

          (i) any other relevant factor.

                                                                    [23/2017]

 (3) The Commissioner may make a declaration only if the
Commissioner is satisfied that the declaration is necessary —

(a) for preserving public order and the safety of individuals
     involved in the event and other individuals; and

      (b) for the avoidance of disruptions to the event.            [23/2017]
(4) A declaration under subsection (1) must —

(a) contain a brief description of the event to which the
     declaration applies, whether by means of a description,
     map or other document;

(b) state the proposed date and time of the event or the
     proposed period in which the event is to take place, and the
     location of the special event area for the event; and

          (c) state the period (not exceeding 3 years) for which the
              declaration is in force.

                                                                                                          [23/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
29  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

 (5) Once such a declaration is made in respect of an event, the
Commissioner must give a copy of the declaration to the event
organiser of the event.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (6) Unless sooner revoked, a declaration expires on the date, and at
the time (if any) stated in, or worked out in accordance with the
declaration.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (7) At any time before the declaration in respect of a special event
comes into force, the Commissioner may, by informing the event
organiser of the event, amend all or any of the following:

    (a) the description of the location of the special event area to
         which the declaration applies;

    (b) the date and time of the special event or the proposed
         period in which the special event is to take place;

       (c) the period (not exceeding 3 years) for which the
            declaration is in force.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (8) To avoid doubt, more than one declaration under this section
may be made in respect of the same event.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

Enhanced security special event declared by Minister

 21A.—(1) Where the Minister is satisfied, in relation to any event,
that any of the following applies:

       (a) there is a reasonable likelihood that the event may be
            disrupted if all or any of the powers in sections 24 to 29 and
            32A are not exercised;

       (b) the exercise of all or any of those powers is necessary
            because of the need to protect persons involved in or at the
            event;

       (c) the exercise of all or any of those powers is required as a
            condition of holding the event in Singapore;

       (d) there is a reasonable likelihood that the event might be the
            subject of an act of terrorism because of the nature of the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     30

          event, or the attendance or likely attendance of prominent
          persons or a large number of people,

the Minister may give directions to the Commissioner requiring the
Commissioner to refer the event, or a class of similar events, specified
in the direction, to the Minister for deciding whether to make a
declaration, and the scope of the declaration, under section 21 instead
of the Commissioner, and every such event, or event in the class,
specified must then be so referred to the Minister.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (2) In deciding whether to make a declaration, and the scope of the
declaration, under section 21, in relation to any event specified in a
direction under subsection (1), the Minister has all the functions and
powers of the Commissioner under section 21, and a reference in that
section to the Commissioner accordingly includes a reference to the
Minister.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (3) A declaration made by the Minister under section 21 read with
this section must be published in the Gazette.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (4) Once such a declaration is made, the Minister must, within
7 days after the making of the declaration and before the date the
declaration comes into force, cause to be published a notice of the
making of the declaration, describing briefly the event and the special
event area for that event in a manner that will secure adequate
publicity for the declaration.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (5) If the Minister, by virtue of this section read with section 21(7),
makes any amendment to the declaration for an enhanced security
special event, the Minister must publish the amended declaration in
the Gazette; and a notice describing briefly the amendment must be
published as soon as practicable in a manner that will secure adequate
publicity for the amended declaration.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (6) However, failure to publish a notice under subsection (4) or (5)
in respect of any declaration or amended declaration by the Minister
does not invalidate the declaration.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
31  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

Statutory conditions of entry

 22.—(1) At any time after a declaration is made in respect of an
enhanced security special event and the special event area for that
event, the Commissioner may, with the approval of the Minister,
determine that all or any of the following conditions apply to the
special event area:

    (a) that a person seeking to enter or in the special event area
         must, if asked by a police officer or an approved person,
         permit an inspection to be made of his or her personal
         property;

    (b) that a person seeking to enter or in the special event area
         must, if asked by a police officer, permit a search to be
         made of the person;

    (c) that a person must not take into or possess in the special
        event area a prohibited item;

       (d) that a person seeking to enter or in the special event area
            must comply with any lawful order of a police officer or an
            approved person regarding the entrant’s entry into and
            remaining in that area.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (2) Once any such determination is made in respect of an enhanced
security special event and its special event area, the Commissioner
must, by notification in the Gazette, specify —

    (a) the places (if any) at which a police officer or an approved
         person may exercise specified powers under sections 24 to
         29;

    (b) if the determination includes the statutory condition of
         entry that a person must not take into or possess in the
         special event area a prohibited item, the thing or animal a
         person is prohibited from bringing into the special event
         area; and

    (c) any other conditions that apply to entry to the special event
        area or any part of it.

                                                                                                    [23/2017]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     32

 (3) Any notification under subsection (2) in respect of an enhanced
security special event and its special event area must be made and
published at least 7 days before the proposed date of the enhanced
security special event or, in the case where the enhanced security
special event is to take place during a proposed period, the beginning
of that proposed period.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (4) Once a notification under subsection (2) is published, the
Commissioner must, within 7 days thereafter and before the proposed
date of the enhanced security special event or, in the case where the
enhanced security special event is to take place during a proposed
period, the beginning of that proposed period, cause to be published a
copy of the notification in a manner that will secure adequate
publicity for it.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (5) The Commissioner may at any time amend the notification
under subsection (2) relating to an enhanced security special event
and special event area; and notice of the amendment describing
briefly the changes in the notification must be published as soon as
practicable in a manner that will secure adequate publicity for the
amended declaration.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

Tickets sellers to inform of statutory conditions of entry

 23.—(1) If any person who sells tickets to an event has reasonable
grounds for believing that the event may be declared a special event
by the Minister, the person must take reasonable steps to tell a person,
before the person buys tickets to the event, that statutory conditions of
entry may apply to the event.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (2) If an event has been declared a special event by the Minister, the
person who sells tickets to the event must take reasonable steps to tell
a person, before the person buys tickets to the event, the statutory
conditions of entry that apply to the event.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
33  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

Inspection of personal property, etc., as condition of entry

 24.—(1) This section applies only if the notification under
section 22(2) relating to the enhanced security special event to be
held at a special event area states that it is a condition of entry to the
special event area that an entrant to the area must, if asked by a police
officer or an approved person, permit an inspection to be made of the
entrant’s personal property.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a police officer or an approved person
may ask the entrant to do one or more of the following:

    (a) allow the police officer or approved person to inspect the
         entrant’s personal property;

    (b) remove one or more garments worn by the entrant as
         specified by the police officer or approved person and
         allow the police officer or approved person to inspect the
         garments;

    (c) remove all articles from the entrant’s clothing and allow
        the police officer or approved person to inspect them;

    (d) open an article for inspection and allow the police officer
         or approved person to inspect it;

    (e) open a vehicle or a part of it for inspection and allow the
        police officer or approved person to inspect it;

    (f) remove an article from the vehicle as specified by the
        police officer or approved person and allow the police
        officer or approved person (as the case may be) to inspect
        it.

 (3) A police officer or an approved person may make a request
under subsection (2) if the police officer or approved person
reasonably considers it necessary to make a request under
subsection (2) in relation to an entrant or the entrant’s personal
property, whether or not the entrant or his or her personal property
have been subjected to screening.

 (4) Any person who fails to comply with the request of a police
officer or an approved person under subsection (2) shall be guilty of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     34

an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

 (5) In this section, inspecting an article includes handling the
article, opening it and examining its contents.

Search of person

 25.—(1) This section applies only if the notification under
section 22(2) relating to the enhanced security special event to be
held at a special event area states that it is a condition of entry to the
special event area that an entrant to the area must, if asked by a police
officer, permit a search to be made of the person.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (2) A police officer may ask a person to permit a search of the
person where —

       (a) the person is entering or about to enter a special event area;
            or

       (b) the person is in a special event area.

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with the request of a police
officer under subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Prohibited items

 26.—(1) This section applies only if the notification under
section 22(2) relating to the enhanced security special event to be
held at a special event area states that it is a condition of entry to the
special event area that an entrant must not take into or possess in the
special event area a prohibited item.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (2) A person must not take a prohibited item into a special event
area, unless the person has the express permission of a police officer
to do so.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
35  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

(3) A person must not —

    (a) without lawful excuse, possess a prohibited item in a
         special event area; or

    (b) use a prohibited item in a way that causes —

    (i) the prohibited item or any part of it;

    (ii) something contained in or on the prohibited item; or

    (iii) something produced by the prohibited item,

    (b) to enter the special event area.

                                                              [16/2015]

 (4) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (5) for failing to
comply with subsection (3) —

    (a) it is not necessary for the prosecution to prove that an
         accused knew or had reason to believe that an area is a
         special event area; but

    (b) it is a defence to a charge for failing to comply with
         subsection (3)(b) for the accused to prove, on a balance of
         probabilities, that —

    (i) the accused did not intentionally cause the prohibited
        item or part of it, or something contained in or on, or
        produced by, the prohibited item, to enter the special
        event area, and the entry was not due to any want of
        reasonable care on the part of the accused; or

              (ii) the accused had in force a prohibited item permit
                   from the Commissioner and had, in accordance with
                   that permit, used a prohibited item in a way that
                   caused it, something contained in it or on it or
                   something produced by it, to enter the special event
                   area.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (5) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (2) or (3) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     36

 (6) It shall not be an offence under this section if the person
disposes of the prohibited item before entering the special event area.

Security screening at special event area of enhanced security
special event

 27.—(1) This section applies if the security system for a special
event area of an enhanced security special event involves the use of
screening devices, such as (but not limited to) the following:

(a) a walk-through detector;

(b) an X-ray machine;

          (c) a hand-held scanner.

                                                                    [23/2017]

 (2) A police officer or an approved person may ask an entrant to a
special event area to undergo any form of security screening,
including doing one or more of the following:

(a) to walk through a walk-through detector;

(b) to pass the entrant’s personal property through an X‑ray
     machine;

          (c) to allow the police officer or approved person to pass a
              hand‑held scanner in close proximity to the entrant;

(d) to allow the police officer or approved person to pass a
     hand‑held scanner in close proximity to the entrant’s
     personal property.

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with the request of a police
officer or an approved person under subsection (2) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

Power to require reasons for entry to special event area of
enhanced security special event

 28.—(1) A police officer or an approved person may ask an entrant
to a special event area of an enhanced security special event to state

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
37  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

the person’s name and residence and his or her reason for being in, or
about to enter, the area.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (2) If the person fails to comply with the request of a police officer
or an approved person under subsection (1), the person shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000.

 (3) In this section, “residence”, in relation to a person, means the
address of the place where the person usually lives in Singapore.

Refusal of entry and removal from special event area of
enhanced security special event

 29.—(1) This section applies if —

       (a) the entrant fails to comply with a request of a police officer
            or an approved person made under this Part;

       (b) the entrant fails to satisfy a police officer or an approved
            person that the entrant has a good and lawful reason to be at
            the special event area of an enhanced security special event
            or a particular part of it; or

       (c) a police officer or an approved person reasonably suspects
            that the entrant is about to commit, has committed or is
            committing an offence under section 26(5), 31 or 32.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (2) Unless the entrant is arrested —

       (a) if the entrant has entered the special event area — a police
            officer or an approved person may direct the entrant to
            leave and not re‑enter the special event area; and

       (b) if the entrant is about to enter the special event area — a
            police officer or an approved person may by direction
            refuse him or her entry to the special event area.

 (3) If a person contravenes any direction given by a police officer or
an approved person under subsection (2)(a) or (b) to leave a special
event area, or attempts to enter or re‑enter the special event area
contrary to such a direction, a police officer may use any force that is
reasonable and necessary to arrest and detain the person for the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     38

purpose of removing the person from or preventing his or her entry or
re‑entry to the special event area, or to remove the person from the
area, as the case may be.

Directions to event organiser

 30.—(1) The Commissioner may, if the Commissioner reasonably
believes that it is necessary for preserving public order and the safety
of individuals involved in the special event and other individuals and
for the avoidance of disruptions to the special event, at any time
during the period the declaration relating to that special event is in
force, give written directions to the event organiser of the special
event requiring the event organiser concerned (according to the
circumstances of the case) to do, or not to do, such things as are
specified in the direction or are of a description as specified therein as
are necessary for preserving public order and the safety of individuals
involved in the special event and other individuals and to avoid
disruptions to the special event.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), a written direction under that
subsection may require the event organiser concerned —

       (a) to alter, demolish or remove any gate, door, fence,
            platform, staging, hoarding or other structure which is
            wholly within the special event area;

       (b) to keep unblocked any stairs, steps, aisle, gangway,
            overpass, underpass, bridge, passage, entry, exit or other
            thoroughfare wholly or partly within the special event area;

       (c) to arrange for the removal of a vehicle from, or the
            movement of a vehicle within, the special event area;

       (d) to give access or priority of access to the public to specified
            kinds of facilities, amenities or services provided by the
            event organiser;

       (e) to cease, either wholly or to the extent specified in the
            direction, any activity on the special event area or part
            thereof;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
39  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

    (f) to implement security measures during the holding of the
        special event, such as the deployment of security personnel
        and the security screening of persons and vehicles;

    (g) to change the venue of the special event, or to cancel or
         postpone the special event; or

       (h) to inform any person attending or intending to attend the
            special event of any matter mentioned in paragraph (g), or
            that requires the person to observe certain conduct at the
            special event, or any other matter in relation to the event, in
            the form and manner that the Commissioner may
            determine.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (3) The manner in which that access, or priority of access, is to be
given must be set out in the direction under subsection (1).

 (4) The terms and conditions on which that access, or priority of
access, is to be given must be set out in the direction under
subsection (1).

 (5) An event organiser who, without reasonable excuse, fails to
comply with any written direction given under subsection (1) or as
modified under subsection (8) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding
$1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (6) Despite subsection (5), no event organiser shall, by virtue of this
section, be guilty of an offence of failing to comply with a written
direction containing requirements mentioned in subsection (2)(a) or
(b) if the event organiser —

    (a) is not the owner of the gate, door, fence, platform, staging,
         hoarding or other structure, or the stairs, steps, aisle,
         gangway, overpass, underpass, bridge, passage, entry, exit
         or other thoroughfare, mentioned in the direction at the
         relevant time relating to the offence concerned; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     40

(b) within 7 days after service on him or her of a notice
     alleging that he or she has been guilty of the offence,
     provides by declaration to the Commissioner, the name and
     address of the person who is the owner of the gate, door,
     fence, platform, staging, hoarding or other structure, or the
     stairs, steps, aisle, gangway, overpass, underpass, bridge,
     passage, entry, exit or other thoroughfare, as the case may
     be.

 (7) Upon receipt of a declaration under subsection (6), the
Commissioner may, during the period a declaration relating to that
special event is in force, give another written direction in writing
requiring the person named in the declaration under subsection (6) as
the owner of —

(a) the gate, door, fence, platform, staging, hoarding or other
     structure; or

(b) the stairs, steps, aisle, gangway, overpass, underpass,
     bridge, passage, entry, exit or other thoroughfare,

specified in the written direction to the event organiser (called the
original direction) requiring that owner to do, or not to do, such things
as are specified in the original direction or are of a description as
specified therein as necessary for preserving public order and the
safety of individuals involved in the special event and other
individuals and to avoid disruptions to the special event.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (8) The Commissioner may, without affording an opportunity to be
heard, modify any written direction given under subsection (1) or (7)
for any purpose mentioned in that subsection.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (9) The Commissioner must first obtain the approval of the
Minister if, in relation to an enhanced security special event, the
Commissioner gives, or modifies, a written direction containing the
requirement mentioned in subsection (2)(g) or (7).

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (10) If, after the expiry of 7 days from the date of the written
direction given under subsection (7) or as modified under
subsection (8), the owner to whom the written direction is given,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
41  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with the written direction,
he or she shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing
offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of
a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (11) Where an event organiser or owner fails to comply with any
requirement in a written direction given under subsection (1) or (7),
respectively (or as modified under subsection (8)), the Commissioner
may, if satisfied that the failure is likely to pose a risk to the safety of
individuals involved in the special event and other individuals, take
such measures and do such work as may be necessary to give effect to
the written direction.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (12) The Commissioner may recover all costs and expenses
reasonably incurred under subsection (11) from the event organiser,
or the owner, in default, as a civil debt due to the Government.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (13) In subsections (6), (7), (8), (11) and (12), “owner”, in relation
to any gate, door, fence, platform, staging, hoarding or other
structure, or stairs, steps, aisle, gangway, overpass, underpass,
bridge, passage, entry, exit or other thoroughfare, in any premises
means —

    (a) except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) or (c) — the
         person for the time being receiving the rent of the premises,
         whether on his or her own account or as agent or trustee or
         as receiver, or who would receive the same if the premises
         were let to a tenant and includes a mortgagee in possession;

    (b) where the gate, door, fence, platform, staging, hoarding or
         other structure, or the stairs, steps, aisle, gangway,
         overpass, underpass, bridge, passage, entry, exit or other
         thoroughfare, is part of any common property or limited
         common property within the meaning of the Building
         (Strata Management) Act 2004 —

    (i) the management corporation established under that
        Act having control of the common property if

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     42

          comprised in a strata title plan, or the person
          receiving any rent or charge for the maintenance of
          that common property;

          (ii) the subsidiary management corporation established
               under that Act having control of the limited common
               property if comprised in a strata title plan, or the
               person receiving any rent or charge for the
               maintenance of that limited common property; or

               (iii) the person receiving any rent or charge for the
                     maintenance and management of the common
                     property not comprised in a strata title plan; and

                                                                              [Act 12 of 2020 wef 01/10/2025]

          (c) where the gate, door, fence, platform, staging, hoarding or
              other structure, or the stairs, steps, aisle, gangway,
              overpass, underpass, bridge, passage, entry, exit or other
              thoroughfare, is part of the common property of any
              housing estate of the Housing and Development Board —
              that Board or the Town Council established under the
              Town Councils Act 1988 for that housing estate.

                                                                                                          [23/2017]

Unauthorised entry to special event area of enhanced security
special event, etc.

 31.—(1) A person must not enter or remain in a special event area
of an enhanced security special event unless the person —

       (a) has the consent of the event organiser; and

       (b) is otherwise authorised to enter or remain at the area under
            this Act.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

 (2) A person who —

       (a) contravenes subsection (1); or

       (b) contravenes any direction given by a police officer or an
            approved person under section 29(2) to leave a special
            event area of an enhanced security special event, or
            attempts to enter or re‑enter the special event area contrary
            to such a direction,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
43  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

Interference with enhanced security special event, etc.

 32.—(1) If a person in a special event area of an enhanced security
special event —

       (a) engages in violent behaviour;

       (b) disrupts, interferes with, delays or obstructs the conduct of
            an enhanced security special event, or any activity
            associated with the enhanced security special event, by
            throwing anything or in any other way; or

       (c) in any other way interferes with the reasonable enjoyment
            of an enhanced security special event, or an activity
            associated with the enhanced security special event, by
            someone else,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                                                                                [16/2015; 23/2017]

 (2) If a person (whether in or outside a special event area of an
enhanced security special event) operates an unmanned aircraft in a
manner —

       (a) that disrupts, interferes with, delays or obstructs the
            conduct of an enhanced security special event, or any
            activity associated with the enhanced security special
            event; or

       (b) that interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of an
            enhanced security special event, or an activity associated
            with the enhanced security special event,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                                                [16/2015; 23/2017]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     44

(3) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (2) —

(a) it is not necessary for the prosecution to prove that an
     accused intentionally caused the unmanned aircraft to fly
     in a manner as described in subsection (2)(a) or (b); but

(b) it is a defence to the charge for the accused to prove, on a
     balance of probabilities, that the flight was not due to any
     want of reasonable care on the part of the accused.

                                                                                                 [16/2015]

Interception, etc., of unmanned aircraft

 32A.—(1) Where an authorised person has reason to believe that an
unmanned aircraft is being operated in a manner —

       (a) that contravenes section 26(2) or (3) or 32(2); or

       (b) that poses a serious and an imminent risk to the security or
            safety of persons lawfully attending an enhanced security
            special event,

the authorised person may, subject to subsection (3), exercise all or
any of the powers in subsection (2) in relation to the unmanned
aircraft for either purpose:

       (c) preventing further contravention of section 26(2) or (3) or
            32(2);

       (d) preventing or stopping any actual or imminent occurrence
            that endangers or threatens to endanger the security or
            safety of persons lawfully attending an enhanced security
            special event.

                                                                                                [16/2015; 23/2017]

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the powers that may be
exercised by an authorised person in relation to an unmanned aircraft
are without warrant —

       (a) to direct any person whom the authorised person
            reasonably believes to be involved in the operation of
            the unmanned aircraft —

               (i) to end the flight of the unmanned aircraft, or land it,
                   safely in the fastest practicable way; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
45  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

    (ii) to fly the unmanned aircraft in the manner specified
         by the authorised person;

    (b) with such assistance and by such force as is necessary —

    (i) to assume control of an unmanned aircraft to fly the
        aircraft or to end the flight of the aircraft, or land it,
        safely in the fastest practicable way; or

    (ii) to end the flight of the unmanned aircraft in the
         fastest and safest practicable way; or

    (c) to seize the unmanned aircraft and any component of the
        unmanned aircraft system for that aircraft, or other thing,
        that the authorised person believes on reasonable
        grounds —

    (i) to be evidential material relevant to an offence under
        this Part; or

              (ii) needs to be seized to prevent its concealment, loss or
                   destruction, or its use in committing, continuing or
                   repeating an offence under this Part.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (3) In authorising any person under subsection (1), the
Commissioner may do all or any of the following:

    (a) limit the powers in subsection (2) that the authorised
         person may exercise;

    (b) limit when the authorised person may exercise his or her
         powers in subsection (2) or any of them;

    (c) limit where in Singapore the authorised person may
        exercise his or her powers in subsection (2) or any of them;

    (d) limit the circumstances in which the authorised person may
         exercise his or her powers in subsection (2) or any of them;

    (e) limit the offences in respect of which the authorised person
        may exercise his or her powers in subsection (2) or any of
        them.

                                                                                                    [16/2015]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     46

 (4) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes any
direction under subsection (2)(a) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (5) A Magistrate may, on an application by the Commissioner,
make an order authorising the Commissioner to destroy or otherwise
dispose of any thing seized under subsection (2)(c) by an authorised
person, if the Magistrate is satisfied that —

(a) apart from this section, an authorised person or the
     Commissioner is required to return the thing to a person;
     and

       (b) the authorised person or the Commissioner cannot, despite
            making reasonable efforts, locate the person or the person
            has refused to take possession of that thing.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (6) In this section, “evidential material” means any thing that is
relevant to proving a contravention of any provision of this Act or any
subsidiary legislation under this Act (whether or not an offence).

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (7) In this section, an authorised person is a police officer, or an
auxiliary police officer, of or above the rank of sergeant and
authorised by the Commissioner to exercise powers under this
section.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (8) To avoid doubt, nothing in this section derogates from the
provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 or section 201B of
the Singapore Armed Forces Act 1972.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

Saving of operation of Part 2

 33. Despite anything in Part 2, no public assembly and no public
procession of any class or description (whether or not exempted from
section 5 under section 46, and whether or not excluded from any
prohibition under section 12(2)) shall take place within any special
event area of an enhanced security special event for such period as the
declaration relating to the special event area is in force unless —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
47  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

    (a) the Commissioner is notified under section 6 of the
         intention to hold the public assembly or public
         procession; and

    (b) a permit is granted under section 7 in respect of that public
         assembly or public procession, as the case may be,

and the provisions of Part 2 apply to such a public assembly and
public procession.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

                                    PART 4

 POWERS TO PRESERVE AND MAINTAIN PUBLIC ORDER

Application of this Part

 34.—(1) This Part applies in relation to the following places (called
in this Act regulated places):

       (a) all public places;

       (b) such other places that are prescribed,

and in this section, “place” includes an area.

 (2) This Part does not apply to any assembly or procession that is
not unlawful under Part 2.

When power applies to behaviour

 35.—(1) Subject to this section, a police officer may exercise a
power under section 36 in relation to any person at or near a regulated
place if the police officer reasonably suspects the person’s
behaviour —

       (a) is or has been interfering with trade or business at the place
            by obstructing, hindering or impeding someone entering,
            at or leaving the place;

       (b) is or has been disorderly, indecent, offensive, or
            threatening to someone entering, at or leaving the place;

       (c) is or has been disrupting the peaceable and orderly conduct
            of any event, entertainment or gathering at the place; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     48

(d) shows that he or she is just about to commit an offence or
     has just committed or is committing an offence.

 (2) If the regulated place is a public place, subsection (1) applies in
relation to a person at or near the public place only if the person’s
behaviour has or had the effect mentioned in subsection (1)(a), (b),
(c) or (d) in the part of the public place at or near where the person
then is.

 (3) Subsection (1)(a) applies to premises used for trade or business
only if the occupier of the premises complains about the person’s
behaviour.

 (4) To avoid doubt, subsections (1)(a) and (3) do not limit
subsection (1)(b), (c) and (d).

Direction to move on

 36.—(1) Subject to this section, a police officer of or above the rank
of sergeant may give to a person or group of persons whose behaviour
is of a kind mentioned in section 35 any written direction that is
reasonable in the circumstances.

 (2) A police officer must not give a direction under subsection (1)
that interferes with a person’s right of peaceful assembly unless it is
reasonably necessary in the interests of —

       (a) public safety;

       (b) public order; or

       (c) the protection of the rights and freedoms of other persons.

 (3) The rights and freedoms mentioned in subsection (2)(c)
includes a reference to the rights and freedoms of the public to
enjoy the place and the rights of persons to carry on lawful business in
or in association with the place.

 (4) Without limiting subsection (1), a direction may require a
person to do one of the following:

       (a) leave the regulated place and not return or be within the
            regulated place within a stated reasonable time of not more
            than 24 hours;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
49  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) leave a stated part of the regulated place and not return or
         be within the stated part of the regulated place within a
         stated reasonable time of not more than 24 hours;

    (c) move from a particular location at or near the regulated
        place for a stated reasonable distance, in a stated direction,
        and not return or be within the stated distance from the
        place within a stated reasonable time of not more than
        24 hours.

Contravening direction to move on

 37. Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes any
direction under section 36 to the person shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Seizure of films of law enforcement activities

 38.—(1) Any police officer of or above the rank of sergeant, or any
CPIB officer, narcotics officer, intelligence officer or immigration
officer, if satisfied upon information and after such further inquiry as
the officer thinks necessary, that any person —

       (a) is making, has made or is about to make;

       (b) is exhibiting or communicating or is about to exhibit or
            communicate; or

       (c) has in his or her possession,

any film or picture containing a record of any law enforcement
activities, and the officer reasonably believes that the film or picture,
if exhibited or communicated (whether to the public or any section of
the public or otherwise) —

       (d) prejudices the effective conduct of an ongoing law
            enforcement operation or investigation, or any
            intelligence operation; or

       (e) endangers or will endanger the safety of any law
            enforcement officer in an ongoing law enforcement
            operation or investigation, or any intelligence operation,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     50

the officer may exercise any of the powers specified in subsection (2).

 (2) Any police officer of or above the rank of sergeant, or any CPIB
officer, narcotics officer, intelligence officer or immigration officer
may —

(a) direct the person reasonably believed to be making,
     exhibiting or communicating a film or picture or about
     to do so to immediately cease making, exhibiting or
     communicating the film, and either —

          (i) to immediately delete, erase or otherwise destroy the
              film or picture; or

          (ii) to surrender the film or picture to the police officer,
               CPIB officer, narcotics officer, intelligence officer or
               immigration officer, as the case may be;

(b) without warrant, search any person whom he or she has
     reason to believe is in possession of a film or picture
     mentioned in subsection (1);

          (c) without warrant, and with such assistance and by such
              force as is necessary, by night or by day, enter and search
              any place where he or she has reason to believe any film or
              picture mentioned in subsection (1) is kept; or

(d) without warrant, and with such assistance and by such
     force as is necessary, seize any film or picture mentioned in
     subsection (1) and any copy thereof, and any equipment
     (including a handphone) used or about to be used in the
     making, exhibition or communication of the film or
     picture,

and take into custody any person reasonably believed to be in
possession thereof.

 (3) Any film, picture and any equipment (including a handphone)
used in the making, exhibition or communication of the film or
picture may be forfeited and shall be destroyed or otherwise disposed
of in such manner as the Commissioner may direct.

 (4) Where a person to whom a direction under subsection (2)(a) is
given fails to comply with the direction, the person shall be guilty of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
51                     Public Order Act 2009                  2020 Ed.

an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

(5) In this section —

    “cinematograph film” means the aggregate of visual images
       embodied in an article or a thing so as to be capable by the use
       of that article or thing —

    (a) of being shown as a moving picture; or

    (b) of being embodied in another article or thing by the
         use of which it can be so shown,

    and includes the aggregate of the sounds embodied in a
    soundtrack associated with such visual images;

    “communicate” means to transmit by electronic means (whether
       over a path, or a combination of paths, provided by a material
       substance or by wireless means or otherwise) a film or
       picture, whether or not it is sent in response to a request, and
       includes —

    (a) the broadcasting of the film or picture;

    (b) the inclusion of the film or picture in a cable
         programme; and

    (c) the making available of a film or picture on a network
        or otherwise in such a way that the film or picture
        may be accessed by any person from a place and at a
        time chosen by the person,

    and “communicating” and “communication” are to be
    construed accordingly;

    “CPIB officer” has the meaning given by the Prevention of
       Corruption Act 1960;

    “film” means —

    (a) any cinematograph film;

    (b) any video recording, or any disc or solid state
         recording device containing information by the use

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     52

          of which one or more series of visual images may be
          produced electronically and shown as a moving
          picture; or

          (c) any other material, record or thing on which is
              recorded or stored for immediate or future retrieval
              any information that, by the use of any computer or
              electronic device, is capable of being reproduced or
              displayed as wholly or partly visual moving pictures,

          and includes any part of a film, and any copy or part of a copy
          of the whole or any part of a film;

“immigration officer” means an immigration officer appointed
   under section 3 of the Immigration Act 1959;

“intelligence officer” means a public officer appointed to such
   Scheme of Service as the Minister designates;

“law enforcement” means —

          (a) activities carried on by any police officer, CPIB
               officer, narcotics officer, intelligence officer or
               immigration officer in the exercise of any function,
               power or duty of such an officer in accordance with
               law;

          (b) activities carried on by any police officer, CPIB
               officer, narcotics officer, intelligence officer or
               immigration officer for the purpose of dealing with
               terrorism, civil unrest or public disorder; or

          (c) activities carried on by any police officer, CPIB
              officer, narcotics officer, intelligence officer or
              immigration officer (as the case may be) in
              preparation for or directly in support of any activity
              mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b);

“narcotics officer” means a public officer appointed to the
   Narcotics Service;

“photograph” means a product of photography or of a process
   similar to photography, other than an article or a thing in
   which visual images forming part of a cinematograph film

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
53  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

    have been embodied, and includes a product of xerography,
    photocopy, and record of an image, whether digitally or in
    another way;

    “picture” includes —

    (a) any drawing, whether made by computer graphics or
         otherwise; and

    (b) any photograph, photographic negative,
         photographic plate or photographic slide,

    and includes any part of a picture.

Obstruction of police officers under section 29 or 38 or
Commissioner under section 30(11)

 39. Any person who wilfully obstructs —

       (a) any police officer in the exercise of any power conferred by
            or under section 29(3) or 38(2); or

       (b) the Commissioner in the exercise of the power conferred
            by or under section 30(11),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

                                    PART 5

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Power of arrest

 40. Any police officer may arrest without warrant any person
offending in the officer’s view against any of the provisions of this
Act, and take the person before a Magistrate’s Court to be dealt with
according to law.

Composition of offences

 41.—(1) The Commissioner or any police officer authorised in
writing by the Commissioner may compound any offence under this

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.     Public Order Act 2009                                  54

Act which is prescribed as an offence which may be compounded by
the Commissioner or such police officer by collecting from a person
reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum not
exceeding the lower of either of the following amounts:

(a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
     prescribed for the offence;

(b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

Owner or occupier of premises where unlawful assembly, etc.,
takes place

 42. Where the owner or occupier of any premises upon which an
assembly or a procession is about to take place is given notice by any
police officer that the assembly or procession is unlawful under
Part 2, and such assembly or procession does take place on those
premises, the owner or occupier of those premises shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000, unless he or she took all reasonable measures and exercised
all due diligence to prevent the assembly or procession from taking
place.

Onus of proof

 43. In any proceedings under this Act, the onus of proving that the
public or any class of the public did not have access to any public
place lies on the person alleging the fact.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 44.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer of the body corporate; or

       (b) to be attributable to any act or default on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
55                     Public Order Act 2009                  2020 Ed.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) is to apply in relation to the acts and defaults
of a member in connection with the member’s functions of
management as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

                                                                                                             [2/2012]

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         a partner; or

    (b) to be attributable to any act or default on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by a limited
liability partnership is proved to have been committed with the
consent or connivance of, or to be attributable to any neglect on the
part of, a partner or manager of the limited liability partnership, the
partner or manager (as the case may be) as well as the partnership
shall be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly.

 (5) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
         its governing body; or

    (b) to be attributable to any act or default on the part of such an
         officer or a member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(6) In this section —

    “body corporate” and “partnership” exclude a limited liability
       partnership within the meaning of the Limited Liability
       Partnerships Act 2005;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.     Public Order Act 2009                                  56

“officer” —

          (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
               member of the committee of management, chief
               executive, manager, secretary or other similar officer
               of the body corporate and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity; and

          (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
               than a partnership), means the president, the
               secretary, or any member of the committee of the
               unincorporated association, or any person holding a
               position analogous to that of the president, secretary
               or member of such a committee and includes any
               person purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (7) The regulations may provide for the application of any
provision of this section, with such modifications as the Minister
considers appropriate, to any body corporate or unincorporated
association formed or recognised under the law of a territory outside
Singapore.

Service of documents, etc.

 45.—(1) Any document required or authorised to be given or
served under this Act may be served —

       (a) in the case of an individual —

               (i) by delivering it to the individual personally;

              (ii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently resident
                   at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post to, the
                   usual or last known address of the place of residence
                   of the individual;

             (iii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently
                   employed at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
                   post to, the usual or last known address of the place
                   of business of the individual;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
57  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

    (iv) by affixing a copy of the notice in a conspicuous
         place at the usual or last known address of residence
         or business of the individual;

    (v) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
         usual or last known address of the place of residence
         or business of the individual, or the last fax number
         given to the Commissioner or an authorised officer
         by the individual as the fax number for the service of
         documents on the individual; or

    (vi) by electronic communication, by sending an
         electronic communication of the document to the
         last email address given to the Commissioner or an
         authorised officer by the individual as the email
         address for the service of documents on the
         individual;

    (b) in the case of a partnership other than a limited liability
         partnership —

    (i) by delivering it to any one of the partners or the
        secretary or other like officer of the partnership;

    (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
         post to, the principal or last known place of business
         of the partnership in Singapore;

    (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
          principal or last known place of business of the
          partnership in Singapore; or

    (iv) by electronic communication, by sending an
         electronic communication of the document to the
         last email address given to the Commissioner or an
         authorised officer by the partnership as the email
         address for the service of documents on the
         partnership; and

    (c) in the case of any limited liability partnership or any other
        body corporate —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     58

          (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other like officer
              of the body corporate or, in the case of a limited
              liability partnership, the manager thereof;

          (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
               post to, the registered office or principal office of the
               limited liability partnership or body corporate in
               Singapore;

          (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
                registered office or principal office of the limited
                liability partnership or body corporate in Singapore;
                or

          (iv) by electronic communication, by sending an
               electronic communication of the document to the
               last email address given to the Commissioner or an
               authorised officer by the limited liability partnership
               or body corporate as the email address for the service
               of documents on the limited liability partnership or
               body corporate.

 (2) In addition to the modes of service prescribed in subsection (1),
any document required or authorised to be given or served under
Part 2 in connection with an advance notice of or an application for a
permit in respect of a public assembly or public procession, the grant
or cancellation of such a permit, or an appeal under section 11, may,
subject to subsection (4), be served by electronic communication, by
sending an electronic communication of the document —

(a) in the case of an individual — to the last email address
     given to the Commissioner or an authorised officer by the
     individual as the email address for the service of
     documents on the individual;

(b) in the case of a partnership other than a limited liability
     partnership — to the last email address given to the
     Commissioner or an authorised officer by the partnership
     as the email address for the service of documents on the
     partnership; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
59  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

    (c) in the case of any limited liability partnership or any other
        body corporate — to the last email address given to the
        Commissioner or an authorised officer by the limited
        liability partnership or body corporate as the email address
        for the service of documents on the limited liability
        partnership or body corporate.

 (3) Where any notice or other document to be served by the
Commissioner or the Minister is —

    (a) sent by a fax to the fax number operated at the last known
         place of residence or business or registered office or
         principal office in accordance with subsection (1), it is
         deemed to have been duly served on the person to whom it
         is addressed on the day of transmission, subject to receipt
         on the sending fax machine of a notification (by electronic
         or other means) of a successful transmission to the place of
         residence or business or registered office or principal
         office, as the case may be;

    (b) sent by electronic communication to an email address in
         accordance with subsection (1), it is deemed to have been
         duly served on the person to whom it is addressed at the
         time of entering the information system addressed to the
         email address; and

    (c) sent by prepaid registered post, it is deemed to have been
        duly served on the person to whom it is addressed 2 days
        after the day the notice or document was posted, whether or
        not it is returned undelivered.

 (4) Service of any document under subsection (2) on a person by
electronic communication may be effected only if the person gives as
part of the person’s address for service an email address.

 (5) This section does not apply to notices and documents to be
served in proceedings in court.

Power to exempt

 46. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, with or without
conditions, exempt any person or class of persons, or any assembly or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     60

procession or class of assemblies or processions, from any of the
provisions of this Act.

Regulations

 47.—(1) The Minister may make regulations necessary or
convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to the
provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may make
regulations for or with respect to all or any of the following matters:

       (a) the form or particulars of application for the issue of a
            permit or prohibited item permit;

       (b) the conditions subject to which a permit or prohibited item
            permit may be issued;

       (c) the procedure as regards the lodging of an appeal under
            section 11 and the practice and procedure upon the hearing
            of an appeal;

       (d) the fees to be paid in respect of any matter or anything
            done, or any services rendered, by the Commissioner under
            or by virtue of this Act;

       (e) the waiver or refund, in whole or in part, by authorised
            officers of any such fees in the circumstances of any
            particular case;

        (f) the offences which may be compounded under section 41
            and the manner in which such offences may be
            compounded;

       (g) the prescribing of anything that is required or permitted to
            be prescribed under this Act.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (3) The regulations may —

       (a) provide that any contravention of any provision of the
            regulations shall be an offence punishable with a fine not
            exceeding $5,000 or with imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 6 months or with both;

       (b) prescribe different fees for different classes of permits; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
61  Public Order Act 2009                                     2020 Ed.

    (c) provide for such transitional, saving and other
        consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions as
        the Minister considers necessary or expedient.

 (4) All regulations made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Application of other laws

 48.—(1) This Act has effect despite any other law relating to the
movement of traffic or pedestrians on roads or the use or obstruction
of a public place, to air navigation, to public entertainment or to
undesirable publications.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (2) Despite subsection (1), nothing in this Act affects the common
law of trespass and, in particular, the right of a person in, or entitled
to, possession of land to request a trespasser to leave the land, and if
the trespasser refuses to leave on being requested, to remove the
trespasser from the land.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Public Order Act 2009                                     62

 (3) To avoid doubt, nothing in Part 3 affects the operation of the
provisions of the Liquor Control (Supply and Consumption)
Act 2015 in relation to any Liquor Control Zone declared under
section 15(1) of that Act that falls wholly or partly within a special
event area.

                                                                                                           [23/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
                 LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                PUBLIC ORDER ACT 2009

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 15 of 2009 — Public Order Act 2009

Bill                  : 8/2009

First Reading         : 23 March 2009

Second and Third Readings : 13 April 2009

Commencement          : 9 October 2009

2. Act 2 of 2012 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2012
   (Amendments made by section 32 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 22/2011

First Reading         : 21 November 2011

Second Reading        : 18 January 2012

Notice of Amendments  : 18 January 2012

Third Reading         : 18 January 2012

Commencement          : 1 March 2012 (section 32)

3. 2012 Revised Edition — Public Order Act (Chapter 257A)

Operation             : 31 May 2012

4. Act 16 of 2015 — Unmanned Aircraft (Public Safety and Security) Act
                           2015

   (Amendments made by Part 2 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 13/2015

First Reading         : 13 April 2015

Second and Third Readings : 11 May 2015

Commencement          : 1 June 2015 (Part 2)

5. Act 28 of 2017 — Public Entertainments and Meetings (Amendment) Act
                          2017

   (Amendments made by section 24(8) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 22/2017

First Reading         : 3 April 2017

Second and Third Readings : 8 May 2017

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
                      ii

Commencement          : 1 August 2017 (section 24(8))

6. Act 23 of 2017 — Public Order (Amendment) Act 2017

Bill                  : 16/2017

First Reading         : 9 March 2017

Second and Third Readings : 3 April 2017

Commencement          : 1 October 2017

7. Act 26 of 2018 — Public Order and Safety (Special Powers) Act 2018
   (Amendments made by section 57 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 11/2018

First Reading         : 27 February 2018

Second Reading        : 21 March 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 21 March 2018

Third Reading         : 21 March 2018

Commencement          : 16 May 2018 (section 57)

8. 2020 Revised Edition — Public Order Act 2009

Operation             : 31 December 2021

9. Act 12 of 2020 — Building Control (Amendment) Act 2020

Bill                  : 10/2020

First Reading         : 4 February 2020

Second and Third Readings : 6 March 2020

Commencement          : 1 October 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
.                                 iii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
  COMPARATIVE TABLE
PUBLIC ORDER ACT 2009

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.           2012 Ed.
7—(3)
                           7—(2A)
   (4)                        (3)
10—(3)
                           10—(2A)
   (4)                        (3)
11—(4)
                           11—(3A)
   (5)                        (4)
14—(4)
                           14—(3A)
   (5)                        (4)
   (6)                        (5)
26—(3)
   (4)                     26—(2A)
   (5)                        (2B)
   (6)                        (3)
30—(8)                        (4)
   (9)
   (10)                    30—(7A)
   (11)                       (7B)
   (12)                       (8)
   (13)                       (8A)
[Omitted as spent]            (8B)
[Omitted as spent]            (9)
[Omitted as spent]
[Omitted as spent]         49—(1)
[Omitted as spent]            (2)
                              (3)
                              (4)
                              (5)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
                 2020 Ed.  ii        2012 Ed.
[Omitted as spent]              (6)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
