         SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES ACT 2025

         (No. 14 of 2025)

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
         General interpretation
     1.  Suitability assessment
     2.  Purposes of Act
     3.  Application of Act
     4.
     5.

                                        PART 2

                       LICENSING OF OPERATORS OF
                        SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES

 6. Unauthorised operation of licensable SRH
 7. Application for or to renew licence
 8. Grant of licence
 9. Licence validity
10. Conditions of licence
11. Modification of conditions of licence
12. Licence condition on maximum capacity of licensable SRHs
13. Restriction on transfer of licence
14. Voluntary cessation of operation of licensable SRH or surrender

         of licence
15. Lapse of licence, etc.
16. Register of licensees

                                        PART 3

                      SPECIAL DUTIES OF LICENSEES

17. Appointment of key appointment holders
18. Appointment of person‑in‑charge of licensable SRH
19. Deployment of individuals to carry out prescribed duties or

         classes of duties

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2        NO. 14 OF 2025

         PART 4

               APPROVAL OF KEY APPOINTMENT HOLDERS,
           PERSONS‑IN‑CHARGE AND PERSONS PERFORMING
         DUTIES IN LICENSABLE SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES

Section  Application for approval
         Grant of approval
   20.   Conditions of approval
   21.   Modification of conditions of approval
   22.
   23.

                                           PART 5

                    CODES OF PRACTICE AND DIRECTIONS

   24. Codes of practice for licensees
   25. Directions concerning safety, health, welfare and wellbeing of

            residents, etc.
   26. Directions when licence expires, etc.

                                           PART 6

                  STEP‑IN ARRANGEMENTS FOR LICENSEES

   27. Step‑in order
   28. Duration of step‑in order or expedited step‑in order
   29. Rules and saving provisions for step‑in arrangements

                                           PART 7

                               REGULATORY ACTIONS

                 Division 1 — Regulatory actions against licensees

   30. Revocation or suspension, etc., of licence
   31. Proceedings for regulatory action against licensees
   32. Immediate regulatory action against licensee

                      Division 2 — Regulatory actions in respect
                         of approval granted under section 21

   33. Regulatory action in respect of approved individuals
   34. Proceedings for regulatory action in respect of approval granted

            under section 21
   35. Immediate suspension of approval of approved individual

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
         SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                            3

         PART 8

         PROTECTION OF RESIDENTS

Section  Boards of Visitors
   36.   Use of reasonable force and mechanical restraints on residents
   37.   Restriction on publication or broadcast of information relating to
   38.   residents of relevant licensed SRHs
         Order to remove publication or broadcast in contravention of
   39.   section 38

                                        PART 9

                                  ENFORCEMENT

40. Purposes for which enforcement powers are exercisable
41. Powers of entry, etc., at premises
42. Power to obtain information from licensee, etc.
43. Power of examination
44. Application of Criminal Procedure Code 2010, etc.
45. Obstructing inspecting officer
46. Notice to attend court
47. Composition of offences

                                       PART 10

                                       APPEALS

48. Interpretation of this Part
49. Appeal to Minister
50. Designate may hear appeal in place of Minister

                                        PART 11
                                ADMINISTRATION

51. Authorised officers
52. Compliance officers

                                       PART 12

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

53. Protection of persons giving information to inspecting
         officer, etc.

54. Protection from personal liability

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
4        NO. 14 OF 2025

Section  Offences by corporations
         Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   55.   Jurisdiction of courts
   56.   Service of documents
   57.   Exemption
   58.   Amendment of Schedules
   59.   Regulations
   60.
   61.

                                          PART 13

                  REPEAL, CONSEQUENTIAL AND RELATED
                         AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS
                               AND FINAL PROVISIONS

   62. Amendment of Central Provident Fund Act 1953
   63. Amendment of Children and Young Persons Act 1993
   64. Amendment of Destitute Persons Act 1989
   65. Amendment of Early Childhood Development Centres Act 2017
   66. Repeal of Homes for the Aged Act 1988
   67. Saving and transitional provisions for adult disability homes
   68. Saving and transitional provisions for homes for children and

            young persons
   69. Saving and transitional provisions for sheltered homes
   70. Saving and transitional provisions for welfare homes
   71. General saving and transitional provisions

            First Schedule — Licensable social residential homes
            Second Schedule — Specified offences
            Third Schedule — Saving and transitional provisions for

                                      adult disability homes
            Fourth Schedule — Saving and transitional provisions for

                                      homes for children and young persons
            Fifth Schedule — Saving and transitional provisions for

                                      sheltered homes
            Sixth Schedule — Saving and transitional provisions for

                                      welfare homes

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES  5

An Act to provide for the regulation of social residential homes and
  other connected or incidental matters, to repeal the Homes for the
  Aged Act 1988, and to make consequential and related amendments
  to certain other Acts.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
6  NO. 14 OF 2025

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the Social Residential Homes Act 2025 and comes
into operation on a date that the Minister appoints by notification in
the Gazette.

General interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act —

      “approved individual” means an individual whose —

              (a) appointment as a key appointment holder of a
                   licensee;

              (b) appointment as the person‑in‑charge of a licensable
                   SRH; or

              (c) deployment to carry out a prescribed duty or a duty
                   belonging to a prescribed class of duties in relation
                   to —

                     (i) the operation of a licensable SRH; or

                     (ii) the management of the residents of a licensable
                          SRH,

         is approved under section 21;

      “authorised officer”, in relation to any provision of this Act,
         means a public officer who is appointed under section 51 as
         an authorised officer;

      “biopsychosocial intervention” means any measure that is taken
         in respect of an individual to provide the individual with
         assistance to improve the quality of the individual’s life,
         including, but not limited to —

              (a) behavioural modification therapy which seeks to
                   modify any behaviour of the individual which may
                   have a negative effect on the individual’s health;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 7

        (b) counselling on matters including, but not limited to,
             the emotions, family, financial state and career of the
             individual;

        (c) occupational therapy;

        (d) physical therapy; and

        (e) psychological therapy;

“broadcast” means the broadcast of sounds or visual images —

        (a) by wireless telegraphy or by means of a high
             frequency distribution system over wire or other
             paths provided by a material substance, and intended
             for general reception;

        (b) through the Internet or any website, web service or
             Internet application, whether or not intended for
             general reception; or

        (c) through any messaging system;

“code of practice” means a code of practice issued or approved
   under section 24, and includes any code of practice as
   amended under that section;

“compliance officer” means an individual who is appointed
   under section 52 as a compliance officer;

“corporation” means a body corporate formed or incorporated or
   existing in or outside Singapore, and includes any foreign
   company within the meaning of the Companies Act 1967;

“director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“Director‑General” means the Director‑General of Social
   Welfare and includes any person who is, for the time
   being, discharging the duties of the Director‑General of
   Social Welfare;

“grant” or “granted”, for a licence, includes —

        (a) grant or granted on renewal; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
8  NO. 14 OF 2025

           (b) treated as granted under the Fourth or Fifth Schedule
                or any other provision of this Act;

   “inspecting officer” means the Director‑General or an
      authorised officer;

   “key appointment holder”, in relation to an applicant for a
      licence or a licensee, means —

           (a) in the case of a corporation or limited liability
                partnership —

                  (i) a member of the board of directors or
                       committee or board of trustees or other
                       governing board of the applicant or licensee,
                       as the case may be; or

                  (ii) any other individual, by whatever name called,
                       who has general management or supervision of
                       the applicant’s or licensee’s business of the
                       licensable SRH to which the application or
                       licence (as the case may be) relates;

           (b) in the case of a partnership or limited partnership —

                  (i) a partner of the applicant or licensee, as the
                       case may be; or

                  (ii) any other individual, by whatever name called,
                       who has general management or supervision of
                       the applicant’s or licensee’s business of the
                       licensable SRH to which the application or
                       licence (as the case may be) relates;

           (c) in the case of a sole proprietorship —

                  (i) the sole proprietor of the applicant or licensee,
                       as the case may be; or

                  (ii) any other individual, by whatever name called,
                       who has general management or supervision of
                       the applicant’s or licensee’s business of the
                       licensable SRH to which the application or
                       licence (as the case may be) relates; or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 9

        (d) in any other case — any individual, by whatever
             name called, who has general management or
             supervision of the applicant’s or licensee’s business
             of the licensable SRH to which the application or
             licence (as the case may be) relates;

“licence” means a licence that is granted under this Act and is in
   force;

“licensable social residential home” or “licensable SRH” means
   a social residential home specified in the First Schedule;

“licensee” means a person to whom a licence is granted under
   this Act;

“limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by
   section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

“messaging system” means any system that enables the
   transmission of short text messages, or of any visual
   communication, voice communication or electronic mail —

        (a) from a digital mobile telephone to another digital
             mobile telephone;

        (b) from an electronic mail address to a digital mobile
             telephone, or the other way around;

        (c) from an electronic mail address to another electronic
             mail address; or

        (d) in any other manner that may be prescribed;

“modification” or “modify”, in relation to the conditions of a
   licence or the conditions of an approval granted under
   section 21, includes deleting, varying and substituting a
   condition, and adding a condition;

“operate”, in relation to any premises, means to manage and
   maintain, in the course of business (whether or not for profit)
   the premises (whether self‑owned or under lease) as a
   licensable SRH;

“partner”, in relation to a limited partnership, includes a limited
   partner in the limited partnership;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
10  NO. 14 OF 2025

    “person‑in‑charge”, in relation to a licensable SRH to which a
       licensee’s licence relates, means an individual who —

            (a) is involved in the day‑to‑day management of the
                 operation of the licensable SRH but not the general
                 management or supervision of the licensee’s business
                 of the licensable SRH;

            (b) has the capacity, on behalf of the licensee, to
                 influence the compliance of the licensee’s
                 employees with the requirements under this Act;

            (c) has access to, and is authorised to provide, any
                 information relating to the licensee and the operation
                 of the licensable SRH that is required by or under this
                 Act; and

            (d) is authorised to represent the licensee for the
                 purposes of this Act in the operation of the
                 licensable SRH;

    “premises” means a building or structure (whether permanent or
       temporary) or part of the building or structure, and includes
       any immediately adjoining space or land necessary for access
       to, or the enjoyment of occupants of, the building or
       structure;

    “public authority” means a body established or constituted by or
       under a public Act to perform or discharge a public function,
       but excludes a Town Council established under section 4 of
       the Town Councils Act 1988;

    “publish”, in relation to any information or picture, means to
       bring the information or picture to the notice of the public or a
       section of the public by any means, including through —

            (a) the Internet or any website, web service or Internet
                 application; or

            (b) any messaging system;

    “regulations” means any regulations made under section 61;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 11

“regulatory action” means —

        (a) any action that may be taken by the Director‑General
             under Division 1 of Part 7 against a licensee; or

        (b) any action that may be taken by the Director‑General
             under Division 2 of Part 7 in respect of an approval
             granted under section 21,

   as the case may be;

“relevant licensed SRH” has the meaning given by
   section 38(1);

“social residential home” or “SRH” means any premises that are
   used, or intended to be used, to provide residential
   accommodation and any one or more of the following to
   individuals, with or without board:

        (a) care;

        (b) biopsychosocial intervention;

        (c) support to carry out daily activities;

“step‑in operator” means a person that is appointed under
   section 27(4) to take over the operations, or a specified part of
   the operations, of a licensee;

“support to carry out daily activities”, in relation to an
   individual, means any supervision or assistance that is
   provided to the individual who is unable to take care of
   himself or herself (whether partially or completely) in
   carrying out the individual’s daily activities, including, but
   not limited to —

        (a) bathing or dressing the individual;

        (b) enabling the individual to meet the individual’s
             toileting needs; and

        (c) if the individual has any mobility issue, assisting the
             individual to move or walk from one place to another
             place;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
12  NO. 14 OF 2025

      “unincorporated association” means a society or body
         unincorporate which, under any written law, may sue or be
         sued, or hold property, in the name of an officer of the society
         or body duly appointed for that purpose.

 (2) In reckoning the age of a person for the purposes of this Act —

       (a) the person is taken to have attained a particular age
            expressed in years on the relevant anniversary of the
            person’s birth;

       (b) a reference to the anniversary of the person’s birth in
            paragraph (a) is a reference to the day on which the
            anniversary occurs; and

       (c) where a person was born on 29 February in any year, then,
            in any subsequent year that is not a leap year, the
            anniversary of the person’s birth is taken to be
            28 February in that subsequent year.

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, a person (A) deploys an
individual (B) to carry out a duty if B —

       (a) is in the direct employment of, or carrying out that duty for
            or by arrangement with, A; and

       (b) is authorised to perform that duty for and on behalf of A.

 (4) For the purposes of this Act —

       (a) a licensee is not regarded as being granted a licence to
            operate a licensable SRH during the period the licensee’s
            licence is suspended under section 30(2)(b) or 32(2)(a)(i);
            and

       (b) a licensee and an approved individual to or for whom
            approval is granted under section 21 for the licensee to —

               (i) appoint the approved individual as a key
                   appointment holder of the licensee;

              (ii) appoint the approved individual as the
                   person‑in‑charge of the licensable SRH to which
                   the licensee’s licence relates; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 13

             (iii) deploy the approved individual to carry out a
                   prescribed duty or a duty belonging to a prescribed
                   class of duties in relation to —

                    (A) the operation of the licensable SRH to which
                          the licensee’s licence relates; or

                     (B) the management of the residents of that
                          licensable SRH,

       (b) are not regarded as being granted approval during the
            period the approval is suspended under section 33(2)(b) or
            35(2)(a).

Suitability assessment

 3.—(1) For the purposes of assessing —

       (a) whether an applicant for a licence, an intended transferee
            or a licensee is a suitable person to operate a licensable
            SRH for the purposes of sections 8(2)(a), 13(3), 15(5) and
            30(1)(d);

       (b) whether —

               (i) a key appointment holder or an intended key
                   appointment holder of an applicant for a licence;

              (ii) a key appointment holder or an intended key
                   appointment holder of an intended transferee; or

             (iii) a key appointment holder of a licensee,

       (b) is a suitable individual to be involved in the operation of a
            licensable SRH for the purposes of sections 8(2)(a), 13(3),
            15(5) and 30(1)(d);

       (c) whether an individual is a suitable individual to be
            appointed as a key appointment holder of a licensee for
            the purposes of sections 21(2) and 33(1)(f);

       (d) whether an individual is a suitable individual to be
            appointed as the person‑in‑charge of a licensable SRH
            for the purposes of sections 21(2) and 33(1)(f); and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
14  NO. 14 OF 2025

       (e) whether an individual is a suitable individual to be
            deployed to carry out a duty mentioned in section 19(1)
            for the purposes of sections 21(2) and 33(1)(f),

the Director‑General must have regard, and give any weight that the
Director‑General considers appropriate, to any matters that may be
prescribed.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), different matters may be
prescribed for the assessments mentioned in subsection (1)(a) to (e),
respectively.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), an inspecting officer may —

       (a) carry out any inquiry or investigation that the
            Director‑General considers necessary for a proper
            consideration of the prescribed matters; and

       (b) request the applicant for a licence, intended transferee,
            licensee or individual concerned to provide, within a
            specified period, any information that the Director‑General
            requires for a proper consideration of the prescribed
            matters.

 (4) Despite any other law, the Commissioner of Police or a law
enforcement agency may, on the request of the Director‑General,
provide a report in respect of any one or more of the prescribed
matters for the purposes of a suitability assessment under this Act.

 (5) To avoid doubt, for the purpose of assessing the suitability of a
person under this section, the Director‑General is not confined to
consideration of the prescribed matters mentioned in subsection (1),
and may take into account any other matters and evidence that may be
relevant.

 (6) In this section —

      “intended transferee” means an intended transferee mentioned
         in section 13 or a suitable person to whom a licence is to be
         transferred under section 15(5);

      “law enforcement agency” means —

              (a) the Singapore Police Force;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 15

              (b) the Central Narcotics Bureau;
              (c) the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau; or
              (d) any other authority or person charged with the duty of

                   investigating offences or charging offenders under
                   any written law and designated by the Minister for
                   the purposes of this definition.

Purposes of Act
 4. The purposes of this Act are to regulate the operation of

licensable SRHs, so as to ensure —
       (a) the safety, welfare and wellbeing of residents of the
            licensable SRHs; and
       (b) continuity of the provision of —
               (i) residential accommodation; and
              (ii) care, biopsychosocial intervention or support to
                   carry out daily activities,
       (b) to residents of the licensable SRHs.

Application of Act
 5. This Act does not apply to, or in relation to, a social residential

home operated by the Government.

                                    PART 2
                   LICENSING OF OPERATORS OF
                    SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES
Unauthorised operation of licensable SRH
 6.—(1) A person must not operate a licensable SRH unless the
person —
       (a) is authorised to do so by a licence;
       (b) is exempt from this section; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
16  NO. 14 OF 2025

       (c) is directed by the Director‑General under section 26(3) to
            do so despite the expiry, lapse or revocation of the licence
            for that licensable SRH.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 2 years or to both; but

       (b) if the person has any previous qualifying conviction, to a
            fine not exceeding $200,000 or to imprisonment for a term
            not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (3) In subsection (2), “qualifying conviction” means —

       (a) a conviction for an offence under subsection (2); or

       (b) a conviction (whether before, on or after the date of
            commencement of this section) for an offence under —

               (i) section 4(1) or (4) of the Homes for the Aged
                   Act 1988 as in force immediately before the date of
                   commencement of this section; or

              (ii) section 62(2) of the Children and Young Persons
                   Act 1993 as in force immediately before the date of
                   commencement of this section.

Application for or to renew licence

 7.—(1) An application for or to renew a licence must be made to the
Director‑General in accordance with this section.

 (2) An application for or to renew a licence must —

       (a) be made in the form and manner specified by the
            Director‑General;

       (b) be accompanied by a non‑refundable application fee (if
            prescribed) paid in the manner specified by the
            Director‑General; and

       (c) be accompanied by the prescribed information and any
            other additional information that the Director‑General
            requires to decide on the application.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 17

 (3) In addition, an application to renew a licence must —

       (a) be made no later than a prescribed period before the date of
            expiry of the licence (if prescribed) (called in this section
            the renewal deadline), unless otherwise allowed by the
            Director‑General in any particular case, which must then
            be treated as a late renewal application; and

       (b) if made later than the renewal deadline, be accompanied by
            a non‑refundable late renewal application fee (if
            prescribed) paid in the manner specified by the
            Director‑General.

 (4) The Director‑General may refuse an application for or to renew
a licence —

       (a) that is incomplete or not made in accordance with this
            section; or

       (b) where an inquiry or investigation mentioned in
            subsection (5) in relation to the application is refused by
            the applicant.

 (5) Upon receiving an application for or to renew a licence, the
Director‑General may, without limiting section 3(3) —

       (a) carry out, or arrange to be carried out by any authorised
            officer, any inquiry or investigation in relation to the
            application that the Director‑General considers necessary
            for a proper consideration of the application, which may
            include an inspection of the premises where the applicant
            intends to operate the licensable SRH to be authorised by
            the licence; and

       (b) request that the applicant provide, within a specified
            period, any additional information that the
            Director‑General requires for a proper consideration of
            the application.

Grant of licence

 8.—(1) Subject to this section, after considering any application
under section 7 for or to renew a licence, the Director‑General may —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
18  NO. 14 OF 2025

       (a) on payment of —

               (i) a licence fee (if prescribed), grant the applicant a
                   licence; or

              (ii) a renewal fee (if prescribed), renew the licence; or

       (b) refuse to grant or renew the licence, as the case may be.

 (2) In deciding whether an applicant should be granted a licence, or
whether an applicant’s licence should be renewed, and the conditions
to impose or modify, the Director‑General must have regard, and give
any weight that the Director‑General considers appropriate, to all of
the following matters:

       (a) whether the applicant, and every key appointment holder
            (including every intended key appointment holder) of the
            applicant, are suitable persons to operate or be involved in
            the operation of (as the case may be) the licensable SRH to
            which the application relates;

       (b) whether the premises are suitable to be used as the
            licensable SRH to which the application relates, having
            regard to —

               (i) the capacity of the premises to provide
                   accommodation, facilities and equipment for the
                   residents of the licensable SRH; and

              (ii) the fire safety, public health and sanitation
                   requirements prescribed under this Act or any
                   other written law;

       (c) the likelihood that the applicant, in operating the licensable
            SRH to which the application relates, will comply with the
            requirements of this Act and any code of practice
            applicable to the licensable SRH;

       (d) the applicant’s ability to operate the licensable SRH to
            which the application relates in a manner that ensures the
            safety, welfare and wellbeing of the residents of the
            licensable SRH;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 19

       (e) whether it would be contrary to the development of the
            social services sector for the licence to be granted to the
            applicant;

        (f) whether it would be otherwise contrary to the public
            interest for the licence to be granted to the applicant.

 (3) To avoid doubt, the Director‑General is not confined to
consideration of the matters specified in subsection (2) and may
take into account any other matters and evidence that may be
relevant.

 (4) Without affecting subsection (1), the Director‑General may
grant a renewal of a licence with or without modifying the conditions
of the licence, but section 11(2), (3) and (4) does not apply to, or in
relation to, granting a renewal of a licence with modifications to the
conditions of the licence.

 (5) The Director‑General may subdivide the licences that the
Director‑General grants under this section into classes, such as
according to the type of licensable SRH that a licence authorises a
licensee to operate, and may grant a licence accordingly.

Licence validity

 9. Every licence granted under this Part is in force for the period
specified in the licence —

       (a) except when the licence is suspended under
            section 30(2)(b) or 32(2)(a)(i); or

       (b) unless the licence —

               (i) is surrendered under section 14;

              (ii) lapses under section 15; or

             (iii) is earlier revoked under section 15(6) or 30(1),

and may be renewed upon its expiry.

Conditions of licence

 10.—(1) In granting a licence to any person, the Director‑General
may impose any condition that the Director‑General considers
necessary or expedient having regard to the purposes of this Act.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
20  NO. 14 OF 2025

 (2) In particular, the Director‑General may impose conditions that
are necessary, expedient or conducive to the attainment or furtherance
of the licensing objectives, such as conditions relating to —

       (a) the maximum number of residents that a licensee may
            admit to the licensable SRH to which the licence relates;

       (b) the operation and maintenance of the licensable SRH;

       (c) the safety and security of residents of the licensable SRH;

       (d) the provision of care, biopsychosocial intervention or
            support to carry out daily activities to residents of the
            licensable SRH;

       (e) the conduct of employees, agents and contractors of the
            licensee;

        (f) the safety and security of the licensable SRH so as to
            ensure the safety of persons performing duties or engaged
            in work at the licensable SRH; and

       (g) any requirement for the licensee to undergo (at the
            licensee’s own cost) and pass any audit that the
            Director‑General may require to ascertain the licensee’s
            compliance with —

               (i) the provisions of this Act;

              (ii) the conditions of the licence;

             (iii) the applicable codes of practice issued, approved or
                   amended by the Director‑General under section 24;
                   and

             (iv) any direction given by the Director‑General under
                   section 25 or 26.

 (3) The Director‑General may, under subsection (2), impose —

       (a) conditions generally applicable to all licences;

       (b) conditions applicable to a particular class of licence; or

       (c) conditions specially applicable to a particular licence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 21

Modification of conditions of licence

 11.—(1) Subject to this section, it is lawful for the Director‑General
to modify the conditions of a licence without compensating the
licensee concerned.

 (2) Before modifying any condition of a licence, the
Director‑General must, unless subsection (5) applies, give written
notice to the licensee holding the licence —

       (a) stating that the Director‑General proposes to make the
            modification in the manner specified in the written notice;
            and

       (b) specifying the period (being at least 7 days after the date of
            service of the written notice on the licensee) within which
            the licensee may make written representations to the
            Director‑General with respect to the proposed
            modification.

 (3) Upon receiving any written representation mentioned in
subsection (2)(b), the Director‑General must consider that written
representation and may —

       (a) reject the written representation;

       (b) amend the proposed modification of any condition of the
            licence in any manner that the Director‑General thinks fit
            having regard to the written representation; or

       (c) withdraw the proposed modification.

 (4) Where —

       (a) the Director‑General rejects any written representation
            under subsection (3)(a);

       (b) the Director‑General amends the proposed modification of
            any condition of the licence under subsection (3)(b); or

       (c) no written representation is received by the
            Director‑General within the period specified in the
            written notice under subsection (2)(b), or any written
            representation made under that subsection is subsequently
            withdrawn,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
22  NO. 14 OF 2025

the Director‑General must issue a written direction to the licensee
requiring the licensee, within the period specified by the
Director‑General, to give effect to the modification as specified in
the written notice under subsection (2) or as amended by the
Director‑General under subsection (3)(b), as the case may be.

 (5) However, where the Director‑General considers that it is
impracticable or undesirable to give written notice under
subsection (2) before modifying the conditions of a particular
licence, in the circumstances of the particular case because of
danger or risk to —

       (a) the security and good order within the licensable SRH; or

       (b) the safety of the residents of the licensable SRH,

the Director‑General may, without compensating the licensee
concerned, and by giving written notice to that licensee, modify
the conditions of the particular licence with immediate effect.

Licence condition on maximum capacity of licensable SRHs

 12.—(1) This section applies if, in granting a licence, the
Director‑General specifies the maximum number of residents that a
licensee may admit to the licensable SRH to which the licence relates
(called in this section the maximum capacity), as a condition imposed
under section 10.

 (2) The licensee may apply to the Director‑General for the
Director‑General’s consent for a variation of the maximum
capacity of the licensable SRH.

 (3) An application for the Director‑General’s consent under
subsection (2) must be made in writing by the licensee.

 (4) After considering the matters that may be prescribed (if any),
the Director‑General may —

       (a) subject to subsection (5), give consent for the variation of
            the maximum capacity of the licensable SRH; or

       (b) refuse (without compensation) to give consent for the
            variation.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 23

 (5) Any consent under subsection (4)(a) may be given subject to
compliance with any conditions that the Director‑General thinks fit to
impose, which may include conditions modifying, or requiring or
otherwise providing for modifications to, the conditions of the
licence, but section 11(2), (3) and (4) does not apply to, or in relation
to, these modifications to the conditions of the licence.

Restriction on transfer of licence

 13.—(1) A licence, and any rights, benefits or privileges under the
licence, are not transferable or assignable to any other person unless
the Director‑General consents in writing to the transfer or
assignment.

 (2) An application for the Director‑General’s consent under
subsection (1) must be made jointly in writing by —

       (a) the licensee; and

       (b) the intended transferee,

no later than a prescribed time, being a time before the licence
expires.

 (3) After considering the matters mentioned in section 8(2) and any
other matters that may be prescribed, the Director‑General may —

       (a) subject to subsection (4), give consent under subsection (1)
            for the transfer or assignment; or

       (b) refuse (without compensation) to give consent for the
            transfer or assignment.

 (4) Any consent under subsection (1) may be given subject to
compliance with any conditions that the Director‑General thinks fit to
impose, which may include conditions modifying, or requiring or
otherwise providing for modifications to, the conditions of the
licence, but section 11(2), (3) and (4) does not apply to, or in relation
to, these modifications to the conditions of the licence.

 (5) A transfer or an assignment, or a purported transfer or
assignment, of a licence, or of any rights, benefits or privileges
under the licence, is void and of no effect —

       (a) if the licence is not capable of transfer or assignment;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
24  NO. 14 OF 2025

       (b) if the transfer or assignment, or purported transfer or
            assignment, contravenes a condition of the licence; or

       (c) if there has, before the transfer or assignment or purported
            transfer or assignment, been a contravention of a condition
            imposed under subsection (4).

 (6) In this section, “intended transferee”, for a licence, means the
person to whom the licence, or any rights, benefits or privileges under
the licence, is intended to be transferred or assigned.

Voluntary cessation of operation of licensable SRH or
surrender of licence

 14.—(1) A licensee must not, without giving the Director‑General
prior written notice —

       (a) wholly and permanently stop operating the licensable SRH
            to which the licence relates, except upon the lapsing of the
            licence; or

       (b) for any reason surrender the licence.

 (2) A written notice under subsection (1) must be given to the
Director‑General no later than the prescribed time before either of the
following dates, whichever is applicable:

       (a) the date on which the licensee is to wholly and
            permanently stop operating the licensable SRH to which
            the licence relates;

       (b) the date on which the licensee intends to surrender the
            licence.

 (3) No part of any licence fee, renewal fee or other fee may be
refunded to the licensee upon the cessation of the operation of a
licensable SRH or surrender of a licence under this section.

Lapse of licence, etc.

 15.—(1) Where a licensee is not an individual, a licence for a
licensable SRH lapses on the date the licensee ceases to exist, unless
the licence had expired or was earlier revoked under section 30(1).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 25

 (2) Where a licensee who is an individual dies, the licensable SRH
continues to be licensed under this Act for the remaining term of the
licence unless the licence —

       (a) lapses under subsection (4); or

       (b) is earlier revoked under subsection (6) or section 30(1).

 (3) Where a licensee (who is an individual) dies, every key
appointment holder of the deceased licensee must ensure that within
21 days after the licensee’s death, the Director‑General is notified of
the death.

 (4) If the Director‑General is not notified of the licensee’s death
within 21 days after the death (whether or not by a key appointment
holder of the deceased licensee), the licence lapses and the licensable
SRH ceases to be licensed under this Act upon the expiry of that
period.

 (5) If the Director‑General is notified of the licensee’s death within
21 days after the death (whether or not by a key appointment holder of
the deceased licensee under subsection (3)), the Director‑General
may, after considering the prescribed matters in section 8(2) and any
other matters that may be prescribed, either by way of endorsement
on the licence or otherwise in writing, transfer the licence to a suitable
person, and upon such transfer, that person becomes the licensee of
the licensable SRH for the remaining term of the licence.

 (6) If the licence is not transferred in accordance with
subsection (5) within 3 months after the licensee’s death, the
Director‑General may revoke the licence and upon the revocation,
the licensable SRH ceases to be licensed under this Act.

 (7) The revocation of the licence under subsection (6) must be
published in the Gazette.

 (8) This section does not affect or diminish any right of any person
who is beneficially entitled under a will or by intestate succession to
receive any benefits in respect of the licensable SRH to which the
licence relates.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
26  NO. 14 OF 2025

Register of licensees

 16. The Director‑General must cause to be kept and maintained a
register of licensees in the form and manner, and containing the
information, that the Director‑General thinks fit.

                                    PART 3

                  SPECIAL DUTIES OF LICENSEES

Appointment of key appointment holders

 17.—(1) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), a licensee must ensure
that, at all times when the licensee is operating a licensable SRH
under the authority of a licence, a prescribed minimum number of key
appointment holders is appointed by the licensee to manage and
supervise the business of the licensable SRH.

 (2) A licensee must not allow an individual to act as the licensee’s
key appointment holder except with the prior approval of the
Director‑General granted under section 21.

 (3) Where the Director‑General has (under section 33(1)) cancelled
the approval granted under section 21 in respect of the licensee’s
appointment of the individual as the licensee’s key appointment
holder (called in this section the section 21 approval), the licensee
must not allow the individual to continue to act as the licensee’s key
appointment holder.

 (4) Where the Director‑General has (under section 33(2)(b)(i)
or 35(1)) suspended the section 21 approval, the licensee must not
allow the individual to continue to act as the licensee’s key
appointment holder for the period during which the section 21
approval is suspended.

 (5) A licensee who fails to comply with subsection (2), (3) or (4)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 27

Appointment of person‑in‑charge of licensable SRH

 18.—(1) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), a licensee must ensure
that, at all times when the licensee is operating a licensable SRH
under the authority of a licence, an individual is appointed by the
licensee as the person‑in‑charge of the licensable SRH.

 (2) To avoid doubt, for every licensable SRH, there can only be one
(and only one) person‑in‑charge for that licensable SRH.

 (3) A licensee must not allow an individual to act as the
person‑in‑charge of the licensable SRH to which the licensee’s
licence relates except with the prior approval of the Director‑General
granted under section 21.

 (4) Where the Director‑General has (under section 33(1)) cancelled
the approval granted under section 21 in respect of the licensee’s
appointment of the individual as the person‑in‑charge of the
licensable SRH to which the licensee’s licence relates (called in
this section the section 21 approval), the licensee must not allow the
individual to continue to act as the person‑in‑charge of the licensable
SRH.

 (5) Where the Director‑General has (under section 33(2)(b)(ii)
or 35(1)) suspended the section 21 approval, the licensee must not
allow the individual to continue to act as the person‑in‑charge of the
licensable SRH to which the licensee’s licence relates for the period
during which the section 21 approval is suspended.

 (6) A licensee who fails to comply with subsection (3), (4) or (5)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

Deployment of individuals to carry out prescribed duties or
classes of duties

 19.—(1) A licensee must not deploy an individual to carry out a
prescribed duty or a duty belonging to a prescribed class of duties in
relation to —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
28  NO. 14 OF 2025

       (a) the operation of the licensable SRH to which the licensee’s
            licence relates; or

       (b) the management of the residents of that licensable SRH,

unless the deployment is with the prior approval of the
Director‑General granted under section 21.

 (2) Where the Director‑General has (under section 33(1)) cancelled
the approval granted under section 21 in respect of the licensee’s
deployment of an individual to carry out a prescribed duty or a duty
belonging to a prescribed class of duties in relation to —

       (a) the operation of the licensable SRH to which the licensee’s
            licence relates; or

       (b) the management of the residents of that licensable SRH,

the licensee must not allow the individual to continue to be deployed
to carry out that duty.

 (3) Where the Director‑General has (under section 33(2)(b)(iii) or
35(1)) suspended the approval granted under section 21 in respect of
the licensee’s deployment of an individual to carry out a prescribed
duty or a duty belonging to a prescribed class of duties in relation
to —

       (a) the operation of the licensable SRH to which the licensee’s
            licence relates; or

       (b) the management of the residents of that licensable SRH,

the licensee must not allow the individual to continue to be deployed
to carry out that duty for the period during which the approval is
suspended.

 (4) The Minister may, by regulations, exclude any individual or
class of individuals from the application of this section, subject to any
condition that the Minister thinks fit.

 (5) A licensee who fails to comply with subsection (1), (2) or (3)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 29

further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

                                    PART 4

         APPROVAL OF KEY APPOINTMENT HOLDERS,
     PERSONS‑IN‑CHARGE AND PERSONS PERFORMING
  DUTIES IN LICENSABLE SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES

Application for approval

 20.—(1) An application for approval for a licensee to appoint an
individual as a key appointment holder of the licensee must be made
jointly by the licensee and the individual in accordance with this
section.

 (2) An application for approval for a licensee to appoint an
individual as the person‑in‑charge of the licensable SRH to which
the licensee’s licence relates must be made jointly by the licensee and
the individual in accordance with this section.

 (3) An application for approval for a licensee to deploy an
individual to carry out a prescribed duty or a duty belonging to a
prescribed class of duties in relation to —

       (a) the operation of the licensable SRH to which the licensee’s
            licence relates; or

       (b) the management of the residents of that licensable SRH,

must be made jointly by the licensee and the individual in accordance
with this section.

 (4) An application under subsection (1), (2) or (3) must be made to
the Director‑General in the form and manner specified by the
Director‑General and be accompanied by —

       (a) a non‑refundable application fee (if prescribed) paid in the
            manner specified by the Director‑General; and

       (b) any information that the Director‑General requires to
            decide on the application.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
30  NO. 14 OF 2025

 (5) The Director‑General may refuse an application under
subsection (1), (2) or (3) that is incomplete or not made in
accordance with this section.

Grant of approval

 21.—(1) After considering an application for approval under
section 20 for a licensee to —

       (a) appoint an individual as a key appointment holder of the
            licensee;

       (b) appoint an individual as the person‑in‑charge of the
            licensable SRH to which the licensee’s licence relates; or

       (c) deploy an individual to carry out a prescribed duty or a
            duty belonging to a prescribed class of duties in relation
            to —

               (i) the operation of the licensable SRH to which the
                   licensee’s licence relates; or

              (ii) the management of the residents of that licensable
                   SRH,

the Director‑General may —

       (d) on payment of a fee (if prescribed), grant the approval; or

       (e) refuse to grant the approval.

 (2) The Director‑General must not grant approval for a licensee
to —

       (a) appoint an individual as a key appointment holder of the
            licensee;

       (b) appoint an individual as the person‑in‑charge of the
            licensable SRH to which the licensee’s licence relates; or

       (c) deploy an individual to carry out a prescribed duty or a
            duty belonging to a prescribed class of duties in relation
            to —

               (i) the operation of the licensable SRH to which the
                   licensee’s licence relates; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 31

              (ii) the management of the residents of that licensable
                   SRH,

if the Director‑General is satisfied that the individual is not a suitable
person to be so appointed or so deployed.

Conditions of approval

 22.—(1) In granting any approval under section 21, the
Director‑General may impose any condition on the licensee or
approved individual, or both, that the Director‑General considers
necessary or expedient having regard to the purposes of this Act.

 (2) The Director‑General may impose different conditions in
respect of —

       (a) different classes of licensees or licensees under different
            circumstances; or

       (b) different classes of approved individuals or approved
            individuals under different circumstances.

 (3) In particular, an approval granted under section 21 in respect of
an individual may include conditions restricting the individual
from —

       (a) having unsupervised direct access to any resident of the
            licensable SRH; or

       (b) handling financial matters and moneys relating to the
            operation of the licensable SRH.

Modification of conditions of approval

 23.—(1) Subject to this section, it is lawful for the Director‑General
to modify the conditions of an approval without compensating the
licensee and approved individual concerned.

 (2) Before modifying any condition of an approval, the
Director‑General must, unless subsection (5) applies, give written
notice to the licensee and approved individual, respectively —

       (a) stating that the Director‑General proposes to make the
            modification in the manner specified in the written notice;
            and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
32  NO. 14 OF 2025

       (b) specifying the period (being at least 7 days after the date of
            service of the written notice on the licensee and approved
            individual or, where the written notices are served on the
            licensee and approved individual on different dates, the
            later of those dates) within which written representations
            may be made to the Director‑General with respect to the
            proposed modification.

 (3) Upon receiving any written representation mentioned in
subsection (2)(b), the Director‑General must consider that written
representation and may —

       (a) reject the written representation;

       (b) amend the proposed modification of any condition of the
            approval in any manner that the Director‑General thinks fit
            having regard to the written representation; or

       (c) withdraw the proposed modification.

 (4) Where —

       (a) the Director‑General rejects any written representation
            under subsection (3)(a);

       (b) the Director‑General amends the proposed modification of
            any condition of the approval under subsection (3)(b); or

       (c) no written representation is received by the
            Director‑General within the period specified in the
            written notice under subsection (2)(b), or any written
            representation made under that subsection is subsequently
            withdrawn,

the Director‑General must issue a written direction to the licensee or
approved individual or both, requiring the licensee or approved
individual or both, within the period specified by the
Director‑General, to give effect to the modification as specified in
the written notice under subsection (2) or as amended by the
Director‑General under subsection (3)(b), as the case may be.

 (5) However, where the Director‑General considers that it is
impracticable or undesirable to give written notice under
subsection (2) before modifying the conditions of a particular

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 33

approval, in the circumstances of the particular case because of
danger or risk to —

       (a) the security and good order within the licensable SRH; or

       (b) the safety of the residents of the licensable SRH,

the Director‑General may, without compensating the licensee and
approved individual concerned, and by giving written notice to that
licensee and approved individual, modify the conditions of the
particular approval with immediate effect.

                                    PART 5

             CODES OF PRACTICE AND DIRECTIONS

Codes of practice for licensees

 24.—(1) The Director‑General may —

       (a) issue one or more codes of practice applicable to all
            licensees or the licensees of one or more specified classes
            of licences;

       (b) approve as a code of practice applicable to all licensees or
            the licensees of one or more specified classes of licences
            any document prepared by a person other than the
            Director‑General, as in force at a particular time or as
            amended from time to time, if the Director‑General
            considers the document suitable for this purpose; and

       (c) amend or revoke any code of practice issued under
            paragraph (a) or approved under paragraph (b),

with respect to all or any of the matters mentioned in subsection (2).

 (2) The matters for the purposes of subsection (1) are —

       (a) the conduct of licensees;

       (b) the measures necessary for licensees to deal with any
            outbreak of infectious disease, plague, epidemic, fire,
            flood, earthquake or disaster (natural or otherwise) or any
            other public emergency; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
34  NO. 14 OF 2025

       (c) for licensees —

               (i) the management, administration and operation of
                   licensable SRHs;

              (ii) the provision of services and facilities at licensable
                   SRHs;

             (iii) the quality of any aspect of the services and facilities
                   provided at licensable SRHs; and

             (iv) the safety and security of residents of, and persons
                   who are engaged in any work at, licensable SRHs.

 (3) A code of practice may, in particular, specify the duties and
obligations of any licensee in relation to the operation of any
licensable SRH to which the licence relates.

 (4) If any provision in any code of practice is inconsistent with any
provision of this Act, the provision, to the extent of the
inconsistency —

       (a) is to have effect subject to this Act; or

       (b) having regard to this Act, is not to have effect.

 (5) Where any code of practice is issued, approved, amended or
revoked by the Director‑General under subsection (1), the
Director‑General must —

       (a) publish a notice of the issue, approval, amendment or
            revocation (as the case may be) of the code of practice in
            any manner that will secure adequate publicity for such
            issue, approval, amendment or revocation;

       (b) specify in the notice mentioned in paragraph (a), the date
            of issue, approval, amendment or revocation, as the case
            may be; and

       (c) ensure that, so long as the code of practice remains in force,
            copies of that code of practice are available for inspection,
            free of charge, by licensees to whom the code of practice
            applies.

 (6) No issued or approved code of practice, no amendment to any
issued or approved code of practice, and no revocation of any issued

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 35

or approved code of practice, has any force or effect until the notice
mentioned in subsection (5) is published in accordance with that
subsection.

 (7) A code of practice issued or approved under this section does
not have any legislative effect.

 (8) Subject to subsection (9), every licensee must comply with the
relevant codes of practice applicable to the licensee.

 (9) The Director‑General may, either generally or for any period
that the Director‑General may specify, waive the application of any
code of practice or any part of a code of practice issued or approved
under this section to any licensee.

 (10) Any contravention or failure to comply by a licensee with any
code of practice applicable to the licensee does not of itself render the
licensee liable to criminal proceedings, but the contravention or
failure may, in any proceedings (criminal or otherwise under this Act)
in connection with an offence under this Act, be relied on by any
party to those proceedings as tending to establish or negate any
liability which is in question in those proceedings.

Directions concerning safety, health, welfare and wellbeing of
residents, etc.

 25.—(1) The Director‑General may give a direction to a licensee or
an approved individual if the Director‑General —

       (a) has reasonable grounds to believe that there are
            circumstances that may endanger, or are likely to
            endanger, the safety, health, welfare or wellbeing of the
            residents of or other individuals at a licensable SRH;

       (b) considers it necessary or expedient for the purpose of
            protecting the safety, health, welfare or wellbeing of the
            residents of a licensable SRH; or

       (c) considers it necessary or expedient to ensure continuity of
            the provision of residential accommodation and the
            provision of care, biopsychosocial intervention or
            support to carry out daily activities to residents of a
            licensable SRH.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
36  NO. 14 OF 2025

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), any direction given under
subsection (1) —

       (a) may, either generally or for any period that the
            Director‑General may specify, require the licensee or
            approved individual concerned (according to the
            circumstances of the case) to do, or to refrain from
            doing, anything specified in the direction or of a
            description specified in the direction;

       (b) takes effect from the date mentioned in subsection (9); and

       (c) may be varied or revoked at any time by the
            Director‑General.

 (3) A direction given under subsection (1) is not to have effect if the
direction requires the licensee or approved individual concerned to
do, or to refrain from doing, anything that the licensee or approved
individual is already required to do, or to refrain from doing —

       (a) where the direction applies to the licensee —

               (i) under any provision of this Act;

              (ii) under a condition imposed under section 10 or 22;

             (iii) under a provision of a code of practice applicable to
                   the licensee under section 24; or

             (iv) under a prior direction given under section 11(4),
                   23(4), 26(3) or 27(4)(e); or

       (b) where the direction applies to the approved individual —

               (i) under any provision of this Act;

              (ii) under a condition imposed under section 22; or

             (iii) under a prior direction given under section 23(4) or
                   26(3).

 (4) To avoid doubt, a direction may, under the circumstances
mentioned in subsection (1)(a), require a licensee to stop the
operation of a licensable SRH or any part of the operation of a
licensable SRH until the Director‑General is satisfied that those
circumstances no longer exist.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 37

 (5) Before giving a direction under subsection (1) to a licensee or an
approved individual, the Director‑General must, unless
subsection (8) applies, give written notice to the licensee or
approved individual —

       (a) stating that the Director‑General intends to give a direction
            to the licensee or approved individual under this section
            and the nature of the direction; and

       (b) specifying the period (being at least 7 days after the date of
            service of the written notice on the licensee or approved
            individual) within which written representations may be
            made to the Director‑General with respect to the proposed
            direction.

 (6) The Director‑General may decide to give or not to give, or to
modify, the direction as the Director‑General considers
appropriate —

       (a) after considering any written representation made to the
            Director‑General pursuant to the written notice mentioned
            in subsection (5); or

       (b) after the period specified in the written notice under
            subsection (5)(b) lapses, where no written representation is
            made or any written representation made is subsequently
            withdrawn.

 (7) The Director‑General must serve on the licensee or approved
individual concerned a written notice of the Director‑General’s
decision under subsection (6).

 (8) However, where the Director‑General considers that it is
impracticable or undesirable to give written notice under
subsection (5) before giving the direction under subsection (1), in
the circumstances of the particular case because of danger or risk
to —

       (a) the security and good order within the licensable SRH; or

       (b) the safety or health of the residents of the licensable SRH,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
38  NO. 14 OF 2025

the Director‑General may give the direction to the licensee or
approved individual concerned without having to give the written
notice.

 (9) A direction given to a licensee or an approved individual under
subsection (1) takes effect from —

       (a) the date on which the written notice under subsection (7) is
            served, or any later date that the written notice may
            specify; or

       (b) in a case where subsection (8) applies, the date on which
            the direction is given by the Director‑General to the
            licensee or approved individual or any later date that the
            direction may specify.

 (10) Every licensee or approved individual must comply with every
direction given under this section to the licensee or approved
individual (as the case may be) as soon as the direction takes effect.

 (11) A licensee or an approved individual who fails to comply with
a direction given under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding
$1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

Directions when licence expires, etc.

 26.—(1) This section applies where any of the following, each
called in this section a relevant event, occurs:

       (a) a licence expires, or is expiring, but no application to
            renew the licence is made before the renewal deadline
            mentioned in section 7(3);

       (b) a licence is transferred under section 13;

       (c) a licensee ceases to operate the licensable SRH specified in
            the licence or surrenders the licence, or gives written notice
            under section 14 of the cessation of the operation of the
            licensable SRH or surrender of the licence;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 39

       (d) a licensee (who is an individual) dies but the licence has
            not been revoked under section 15(6) or 30(1) or has not
            lapsed under section 15(4);

       (e) a licence lapses under section 15;

        (f) a licensee is given a direction under section 25 to cease the
            operation of a licensable SRH or any part of a licensable
            SRH;

       (g) a licensee is given written notice of the revocation,
            suspension or shortening of the term, of the licence
            under section 30.

 (2) The purposes of this section are —

       (a) to secure the orderly cessation of the licensee’s operation
            of a licensable SRH with minimal disruption to the
            residents of the licensable SRH; and

       (b) where the residents of the licensable SRH are also provided
            with care, biopsychosocial intervention or support to carry
            out daily activities, to ensure continuity of the provision of
            care, biopsychosocial intervention or support to carry out
            daily activities to the residents.

 (3) The Director‑General may, for the purposes of this section, give
directions to one or more of the following persons:

       (a) the licensee;

       (b) a key appointment holder of the licensee;

       (c) if there is no key appointment holder of the licensee who is
            able to comply with the directions, any person who was a
            key appointment holder of the licensee in the period of
            6 months immediately preceding the date of the relevant
            event mentioned in subsection (1).

 (4) Without limiting subsection (3), the Director‑General may give
all or any of the following directions under that subsection:

       (a) that the licensee must appoint one or more key
            appointment holders mentioned in subsection (3)(b) or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
40  NO. 14 OF 2025

            former key appointment holders mentioned in
            subsection (3)(c) to do either or both of the following:

               (i) oversee the orderly transfer of the residents to
                   another licensable SRH;

              (ii) advise the licensee on the operation of the licensable
                   SRH mentioned in subsection (2);

       (b) that the licensee must provide the Director‑General with
            any assistance that the Director‑General may specify with
            respect to alternative arrangements for the residents
            relating to their residential accommodation and
            whichever of the following the licensee provides to the
            residents:

               (i) care;

              (ii) biopsychosocial intervention;

             (iii) support to carry out daily activities;

       (c) any other direction that the Director‑General thinks is
            necessary to ensure the orderly cessation of the licensee’s
            operation of the affected licensable SRH so as to cause
            minimal disruption to the residents, which may include a
            direction for the continued operation of the affected
            licensable SRH for any period that the Director‑General
            may specify.

 (5) A direction given under subsection (3) takes effect from the date
it is served on the person to whom it is addressed, or on any later date
that the direction may specify.

 (6) A person to whom a direction is given under subsection (3) must
comply with the direction as soon as it takes effect.

 (7) A person who, without reasonable excuse —

       (a) fails to comply with a direction given under subsection (3);
            or

       (b) fails to comply with a direction given under subsection (3)
            within the period specified by the Director‑General,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 41

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

 (8) In this section, “licensee” includes a person who has ceased to
hold a licence.

                                    PART 6

           STEP‑IN ARRANGEMENTS FOR LICENSEES

Step‑in order

 27.—(1) The Minister may make an order under this section (called
in this Part a step‑in order) if —

       (a) the licence of a licensee is suspended, revoked or
            surrendered;

       (b) a licensee —

               (i) is, or is likely to be, declared a bankrupt;

              (ii) has gone, or is likely to go, into compulsory or
                   voluntary liquidation other than for the purpose of
                   amalgamation or reconstruction; or

             (iii) is, or is likely to be, placed under the judicial
                   management of a judicial manager under any written
                   law relating to the insolvency of companies;

       (c) a licensee is contravening or not complying with any
            provision of this Act;

       (d) a licensee is operating the licensable SRH to which the
            licensee’s licence relates in a manner that is detrimental, or
            is likely to be detrimental, to the safety, welfare or
            wellbeing of the residents of the licensable SRH; or

       (e) the Minister considers that it is in the public interest to do
            so,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
42  NO. 14 OF 2025

and the Director‑General has given the Minister a written opinion that
it is necessary to take over the operation, or any part of the operation,
of the licensable SRH to ensure the safety, welfare or wellbeing of the
residents of the licensable SRH.

 (2) Before a step‑in order is made under subsection (1), but subject
to subsection (3), the Minister must give the licensee concerned a
reasonable opportunity to make written representations in respect of
the proposed step‑in order.

 (3) Where the Minister is of the opinion that it is necessary to make
a step‑in order on an expedited basis (called in this Part an expedited
step‑in order) in order to protect the safety, welfare or wellbeing of
the residents of the licensable SRH, the Minister may make an
expedited step‑in order, which takes effect on the date the order is
served on the licensee.

 (4) A step‑in order or an expedited step‑in order —

       (a) may order the licensee —

               (i) to revoke the appointment of all or any of the
                   licensee’s key appointment holders, and appoint
                   another individual or other individuals as the
                   licensee’s key appointment holder or holders for
                   the period specified in that order;

              (ii) to revoke the appointment of the person‑in‑charge of
                   the licensable SRH, and appoint another individual
                   as the licensable SRH’s person‑in‑charge for the
                   period specified in that order;

             (iii) to transfer the residents of the licensable SRH to the
                   care of another licensee for the period specified in
                   that order;

             (iv) to appoint another licensee to operate the licensable
                   SRH for the period specified in that order; and

              (v) to appoint a person to advise the licensee on the
                   proper conduct of the licensee’s business or the
                   operation of the licensable SRH;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 43

(b) may authorise the Director‑General —

       (i) to directly take over, or appoint a step‑in operator to
            take over, the operation, or a specified part of the
            operation, of the licensable SRH; and

      (ii) to do any of the things mentioned in paragraph (a);

(c) may specify that —

       (i) the step‑in operator has the functions and powers in
            relation to the operation of the licensable SRH that
            are specified in that order;

      (ii) the licensee is to stop operating the licensable SRH
            on and from a specified date;

      (iii) the step‑in operator must have access to, and take
            control or management of, the premises or other
            assets and other property (including intellectual
            property), licences and employees used or required
            by the licensee for the purpose of operating the
            licensable SRH; and

      (iv) the Director‑General must have access to, and be
            able to make copies of or take extracts from, any
            document or record in the possession or under the
            control of the licensee for the purpose of that order;

(d) where an order mentioned in paragraph (a)(iii) or (iv) is
     made, may specify, in addition to any matter that may be
     specified under paragraph (c), that —

       (i) the licensee must notify the Director‑General of the
            identity of the other licensee mentioned in
            paragraph (a)(iii) or (iv); and

      (ii) the other licensee must have access to, and be able to
            make copies of or take extracts from, any document
            or record in the possession or under the control of the
            firstmentioned licensee for the purpose of that order;
            and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
44  NO. 14 OF 2025

       (e) may contain ancillary directions —

               (i) about how the costs of, and revenue generated from,
                   operating the licensable SRH are to be dealt with;

              (ii) that may fix the remuneration and expenses to be
                   paid by the licensee concerned to any person
                   appointed under paragraph (a)(v) to advise the
                   licensee on the proper conduct of the licensee’s
                   business or the operation of the licensable SRH;

             (iii) specifying the period for which the step‑in order or
                   expedited step‑in order applies; and

             (iv) specifying any other conditions that may apply.

 (5) The Minister’s decision under subsection (1) or (3), or both, is
final.

 (6) A step‑in order or an expedited step‑in order operates to the
exclusion of rights that are inconsistent with the step‑in order or
expedited step‑in order, as the case may be.

 (7) Subject to subsections (8) and (9), the licensee —

       (a) must facilitate the handover of the operation of the
            licensable SRH to the step‑in operator as specified in the
            step‑in order or expedited step‑in order, as the case may be;

       (b) must not obstruct the step‑in operator’s access to the
            property of the licensee or the step‑in operator’s exercise of
            the step‑in operator’s responsibilities under this section;
            and

       (c) must comply with reasonable directions given by the
            step‑in operator in the step‑in operator’s exercise of the
            step‑in operator’s responsibilities under this section.

 (8) Where a step‑in order or an expedited step‑in order mentioned
in subsection (4)(a)(iii) is made, the licensee must facilitate the
transfer of the residents of the licensable SRH to the care of the other
licensee mentioned in that provision.

 (9) Where a step‑in order or an expedited step‑in order mentioned
in subsection (4)(a)(iv) is made, the licensee —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 45

       (a) must facilitate the operation of the licensable SRH by the
            other licensee mentioned in that provision; and

       (b) must not obstruct that other licensee’s access to and use of
            the property of the firstmentioned licensee for the purpose
            of operating the licensable SRH.

 (10) A licensee who fails to comply with subsection (7), (8) or (9)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

Duration of step‑in order or expedited step‑in order

 28.—(1) The Minister may revoke a step‑in order or an expedited
step‑in order at any time.

 (2) The Minister may, at any time, revoke the appointment of a
step‑in operator in relation to the operation, or a specified part of the
operation, of a licensable SRH —

       (a) if the Minister is satisfied that —

               (i) the reasons for the appointment have ceased to exist;
                   or

              (ii) it is no longer necessary for the protection of the
                   residents of the licensable SRH in respect of which
                   the step‑in order or expedited step‑in order was
                   made; or

       (b) on any other ground,

and upon the revocation, the step‑in operator ceases to be in control of
that operation or the specified part of that operation.

Rules and saving provisions for step‑in arrangements

 29.—(1) The Minister may make rules to give effect to this Part,
including making provisions for applying, omitting or modifying
provisions of any written law relating to the insolvency of companies

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
46  NO. 14 OF 2025

(if applicable) where a step‑in order or an expedited step‑in order is
made.

 (2) Nothing effected or to be effected by, or done under, this Part —

       (a) is to be regarded as placing any person in breach of
            contract or confidence or as otherwise making any person
            guilty of a civil wrong;

       (b) is to be regarded as placing any person in breach of, or as
            constituting a default under, any Act or other law or
            obligation or any provision in any agreement, arrangement
            or understanding including, but not limited to, any
            provision or obligation prohibiting, restricting or
            regulating the assignment, transfer, sale or disposal of
            any property or the disclosure of any information;

       (c) is to be regarded as fulfilling any condition that allows a
            person to exercise a power, right or remedy in respect of, or
            to terminate, any agreement or obligation;

       (d) is to be regarded as giving rise to any remedy for a party to
            any contract or instrument, or as causing or permitting the
            termination of any contract or instrument, because of a
            change in the beneficial or legal ownership of any
            property;

       (e) is to be regarded as causing any contract or instrument to
            be void or otherwise unenforceable, or as frustrating any
            contract; or

        (f) releases any surety or other obligor wholly or in part from
            any obligation.

                                    PART 7
                        REGULATORY ACTIONS
          Division 1 — Regulatory actions against licensees
Revocation or suspension, etc., of licence
 30.—(1) Subject to section 31, if the Director‑General is satisfied
that —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 47

(a) a licensee is contravening or not complying with, or has
     contravened or failed to comply with —

       (i) any condition of the licensee’s licence;

      (ii) any provision of this Act, the contravention of which
            is not an offence under this Act;

      (iii) any provision of a code of practice applicable to the
            licensee; or

      (iv) a confirmed interim order under section 32;

(b) the licensee does not, or has ceased to, operate the
     licensable SRH authorised by the licence for the
     prescribed period;

(c) the licensee or a key appointment holder of the licensee is
     convicted of any of the following offences committed
     during the term of the licence:

       (i) any offence under this Act;

      (ii) an offence specified in the First Schedule to the
            Registration of Criminals Act 1949;

      (iii) an offence, whether in Singapore or elsewhere,
            involving dishonesty or the conviction for which
            involved a finding that the licensee or key
            appointment holder had acted dishonestly;

      (iv) any prescribed offence;

(d) the licensee or a key appointment holder of the licensee is
     no longer a suitable person to be granted a licence having
     regard to the matters mentioned in section 8(2), or to be
     involved in the operation of the licensable SRH authorised
     by the licence;

(e) the licensee fails to operate the licensable SRH in a manner
     that ensures the safety, welfare and wellbeing of the
     residents of the licensable SRH;

(f) the licence has been obtained by fraud or
     misrepresentation;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
48  NO. 14 OF 2025

       (g) the licensee —

               (i) is, or is likely to be, declared a bankrupt;

              (ii) has gone, or is likely to go, into compulsory or
                   voluntary liquidation other than for the purpose of
                   amalgamation or reconstruction; or

             (iii) has made any assignment to, or composition with, its
                   creditors or if a corporation, a limited liability
                   partnership or an unregistered company is unable
                   to pay its debts;

       (h) the premises at which the licensable SRH is operated are
            no longer safe or suitable for use as a licensable SRH; or

        (i) the public interest so requires,

the Director‑General may revoke (without compensation) the
licensee’s licence.

 (2) However, the Director‑General may, in lieu of revoking a
licensee’s licence under subsection (1), do any one or more of the
following (without compensation):

       (a) shorten (for not longer than the prescribed period) the term
            of the licence;

       (b) suspend the licence for a period that the Director‑General
            thinks fit;

       (c) modify any condition of the licence, and section 11(2), (3)
            and (4) is disapplied.

 (3) In taking any regulatory action under this section in relation to
the conviction of a licensee or any person for a criminal offence, the
Director‑General may accept the licensee’s or person’s conviction as
final.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (1)(g)(iii) —

       (a) a corporation is unable to pay its debts if it is deemed to be
            so unable under section 125(2) of the Insolvency,
            Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 49

       (b) a limited liability partnership is unable to pay its debts if it
            is deemed to be so unable under paragraph 3(2) of the Fifth
            Schedule to the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;
            and

       (c) an unregistered company (other than a corporation
            mentioned in paragraph (a) or a limited liability
            partnership mentioned in paragraph (b)) is unable to pay
            its debts if it is deemed to be so unable under
            section 246(2) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
            Dissolution Act 2018.

 (5) In this section, “unregistered company” has the meaning given
by section 245(1) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
Act 2018.

Proceedings for regulatory action against licensees

 31.—(1) Before exercising any power under section 30(1) or (2),
the Director‑General must give written notice to the licensee
concerned —

       (a) stating that the Director‑General intends to take regulatory
            action under section 30;

       (b) specifying the type of regulatory action mentioned in
            section 30(1) or (2) that the Director‑General proposes to
            take, and each instance of contravention or
            non‑compliance that is the subject of the proposed
            regulatory action; and

       (c) specifying the period (being at least 7 days after the date of
            service of the written notice on the licensee) within which
            written representations may be made to the
            Director‑General with respect to the proposed regulatory
            action.

 (2) The Director‑General may decide to take the appropriate
regulatory action mentioned in section 30(1) or (2) —

       (a) after considering any written representation made to the
            Director‑General pursuant to the written notice mentioned
            in subsection (1); or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
50  NO. 14 OF 2025

       (b) after the period specified in the written notice under
            subsection (1)(c) lapses, where no written representation is
            made or any written representation made is subsequently
            withdrawn.

 (3) Where the Director‑General has made any decision under
subsection (2) against any licensee, the Director‑General must serve
on the licensee a written notice of the decision.

 (4) Subject to Part 10, a decision to revoke a licence under
section 30(1), or to impose a regulatory action mentioned in
section 30(2), which is specified in the written notice served under
subsection (3), takes effect from the date on which that written notice
is served, or on any later date that may be specified in the written
notice.

 (5) Any revocation or suspension of any licence under section 30
with respect to a licensee does not affect —

       (a) the enforcement by any person of any right or claim against
            the licensee; or

       (b) the enforcement by the licensee of any right or claim
            against any person.

Immediate regulatory action against licensee

 32.—(1) Despite section 31, the Director‑General may make an
interim order against a licensee where —

       (a) the licensee is charged for or convicted of any of the
            following offences committed during the term of the
            licence:

               (i) any offence under this Act;

              (ii) an offence specified in the First Schedule to the
                   Registration of Criminals Act 1949;

             (iii) an offence, whether in Singapore or elsewhere,
                   involving dishonesty or the conviction for which
                   involved a finding that the licensee had acted
                   dishonestly;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 51

            (iv) an offence specified in the Second Schedule,

      (a) and the Director‑General is of the opinion that it is
           undesirable in the public interest for the licensee to
           continue to operate a licensable SRH; or

      (b) the licensee is contravening or not complying with, or has
           contravened or failed to comply with —

             (i) any condition of the licensee’s licence;

            (ii) any provision of this Act, the contravention of which
                  is not an offence under this Act; or

            (iii) any provision of a code of practice applicable to the
                  licensee,

      (b) and the Director‑General —

            (iv) has reasonable grounds to believe that there is, as a
                  result, a serious and imminent threat or risk to the
                  safety of the residents of the licensable SRH operated
                  by the licensee; and

             (v) is satisfied that it is impracticable in the
                  circumstances of the particular case for the
                  Director‑General to complete any regulatory action
                  in accordance with section 31 to address the default
                  mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i), (ii) or (iii) because
                  of the threat or risk mentioned in sub‑paragraph (iv).

(2) An interim order made under subsection (1) —

      (a) may —

             (i) suspend the licence; or

            (ii) where subsection (1)(b) applies, require the licensee
                  concerned (according to the circumstances of the
                  case) to do, or to refrain from doing, for a specified
                  period, anything specified in the interim order or of a
                  description specified in the interim order, for or in
                  respect of any matter necessary or desirable to rectify
                  any contravention or non‑compliance mentioned in

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
52  NO. 14 OF 2025

                   that provision or that constitutes the ground for this
                   regulatory action; and

       (b) may be cancelled at any time by the Director‑General.

 (3) An interim order made under subsection (1) takes effect at any
time, being the earliest practicable time, that is determined by or
under that interim order and continues in force until either of the
following occurs, unless earlier confirmed under subsection (5):

       (a) the expiry date (if any) stated in the interim order is
            reached, which must not exceed 90 days;

       (b) the Director‑General cancels the interim order before the
            expiry date.

 (4) Before confirming any interim order made under subsection (1),
the Director‑General must give written notice to the licensee
concerned —

       (a) stating that the Director‑General intends to confirm the
            interim order; and

       (b) specifying the period (being at least 7 days after the date of
            service of the written notice on the licensee) within which
            written representations may be made to the
            Director‑General with respect to the proposed
            confirmation.

 (5) The Director‑General may decide to confirm or not to confirm
the interim order (with or without modification) as the
Director‑General considers appropriate —

       (a) after considering any written representation made to the
            Director‑General pursuant to the written notice in
            subsection (4); or

       (b) after the period specified in the written notice under
            subsection (4)(b) lapses, where no written representation is
            made or any written representation made is subsequently
            withdrawn.

 (6) The Director‑General must serve on the licensee concerned a
written notice of the Director‑General’s decision under
subsection (5).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 53

 (7) Every licensee must comply with every interim order given
under this section to the licensee as soon as the interim order takes
effect.

               Division 2 — Regulatory actions in respect
                  of approval granted under section 21

Regulatory action in respect of approved individuals

 33.—(1) Subject to section 34, the Director‑General may cancel
(without compensation) an approval granted under section 21 for a
licensee to —

       (a) appoint an approved individual as a key appointment
            holder of the licensee;

       (b) appoint an approved individual as the person‑in‑charge of
            the licensable SRH to which the licensee’s licence relates;
            or

       (c) deploy an approved individual to carry out a prescribed
            duty or a duty belonging to a prescribed class of duties in
            relation to —

               (i) the operation of the licensable SRH to which the
                   licensee’s licence relates; or

              (ii) the management of the residents of that licensable
                   SRH,

on any of the following grounds:

       (d) the licensee or approved individual is contravening or not
            complying with, or has contravened or failed to comply
            with —

               (i) any condition of the approval;

              (ii) any provision of this Act, the contravention of which
                   is not an offence under this Act; or

             (iii) a confirmed interim order under section 35;

       (e) the licensee or approved individual is convicted of any of
            the following offences committed during the term of the
            licence:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
54  NO. 14 OF 2025

               (i) any offence under this Act;

              (ii) an offence specified in the First Schedule to the
                   Registration of Criminals Act 1949;

             (iii) an offence, whether in Singapore or elsewhere,
                   involving dishonesty or the conviction for which
                   involved a finding that the licensee or approved
                   individual had acted dishonestly;

             (iv) any prescribed offence;

        (f) the approved individual is no longer a suitable person —

               (i) in the case of paragraph (a) — to be appointed as a
                   key appointment holder of the licensee;

              (ii) in the case of paragraph (b) — to be appointed as the
                   person‑in‑charge of the licensable SRH to which the
                   licensee’s licence relates; or

             (iii) in the case of paragraph (c) — to carry out the
                   prescribed duty or duty mentioned in that paragraph;

       (g) the approval has been obtained by fraud or
            misrepresentation;

       (h) the public interest so requires.

 (2) However, the Director‑General may, in lieu of cancelling the
approval, do either or both of the following (without compensation):

       (a) modify any condition of the approval;

       (b) suspend the approval for not more than 6 months in respect
            of the approved individual —

               (i) being appointed as a licensee’s key appointment
                   holder;

              (ii) being appointed as a licensable SRH’s
                   person‑in‑charge; or

             (iii) being deployed to carry out a prescribed duty or a
                   duty mentioned in subsection (1)(c),

       (b) as the case may be.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 55

 (3) In taking any regulatory action under this section in relation to
the conviction of an individual for a criminal offence, the
Director‑General may accept the individual’s conviction as final.

Proceedings for regulatory action in respect of approval
granted under section 21

 34.—(1) Before exercising any power under section 33(1) or (2),
the Director‑General must give written notice to the licensee and
approved individual concerned —

       (a) stating that the Director‑General intends to take regulatory
            action under section 33;

       (b) specifying the type of regulatory action mentioned in
            section 33(1) or (2) that the Director‑General proposes to
            take, and each instance of contravention or
            non‑compliance that is the subject of the proposed
            regulatory action; and

       (c) specifying the period (being at least 7 days after the date of
            service of the written notice on the licensee and approved
            individual or, where the written notices are served on the
            licensee and approved individual on different dates, the
            later of those dates) within which written representations
            may be made to the Director‑General with respect to the
            proposed regulatory action.

 (2) The Director‑General may decide to take the appropriate
regulatory action mentioned in section 33(1) or (2) —

       (a) after considering any written representation made to the
            Director‑General pursuant to the written notice mentioned
            in subsection (1); or

       (b) after the period specified in the written notice under
            subsection (1)(c) lapses, where no written representation is
            made or any written representation made is subsequently
            withdrawn.

 (3) Where the Director‑General has made any decision under
subsection (2), the Director‑General must serve on the licensee and
approved individual concerned a written notice of the decision.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
56  NO. 14 OF 2025

 (4) Subject to Part 10, a decision to —

       (a) cancel under section 33(1) an approval granted under
            section 21 for a licensee to —

               (i) appoint an approved individual as a key appointment
                   holder of the licensee;

              (ii) appoint an approved individual as the
                   person‑in‑charge of the licensable SRH to which
                   the licensee’s licence relates; or

             (iii) deploy an approved individual to carry out a
                   prescribed duty or a duty belonging to a prescribed
                   class of duties in relation to —

                    (A) the operation of the licensable SRH to which
                          the licensee’s licence relates; or

                     (B) the management of the residents of that
                          licensable SRH; or

       (b) impose a regulatory action mentioned in section 33(2) in
            respect of the approval,

which is specified in the written notice served under subsection (3),
takes effect from the date on which that written notice is served, or on
any later date that may be specified in the written notice.

 (5) Any cancellation or suspension of an approval granted under
section 21 for an approved individual to —

       (a) be appointed as a key appointment holder of a licensee;

       (b) be appointed as the person‑in‑charge of a licensable SRH;
            or

       (c) be deployed to carry out a prescribed duty or a duty
            belonging to a prescribed class of duties in relation to —

               (i) the operation of a licensable SRH; or

              (ii) the management of the residents of a licensable SRH,

does not affect —

       (d) the enforcement by any person of any right or claim against
            the approved individual; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 57

       (e) the enforcement by the approved individual of any right or
            claim against any person.

Immediate suspension of approval of approved individual

 35.—(1) Despite section 34, the Director‑General may make an
interim order in relation to the approval granted under section 21 in
respect of an approved individual where —

       (a) the approved individual is charged or convicted of any of
            the following offences committed during the term of the
            approval:

               (i) any offence under this Act;

              (ii) an offence specified in the First Schedule to the
                   Registration of Criminals Act 1949;

             (iii) an offence, whether in Singapore or elsewhere,
                   involving dishonesty or the conviction for which
                   involved a finding that the approved individual had
                   acted dishonestly;

             (iv) an offence specified in the Second Schedule,

       (a) and the Director‑General is of the opinion that it is
            undesirable in the public interest for the approved
            individual to continue to —

              (v) be appointed as a key appointment holder of a
                   licensee;

             (vi) be appointed as the person‑in‑charge of a licensable
                   SRH; or

            (vii) carry out a prescribed duty or a duty belonging to a
                   prescribed class of duties in relation to —

                    (A) the operation of a licensable SRH; or

                     (B) the management of the residents of a licensable
                          SRH; or

       (b) the licensee or approved individual, or both, to or for
            whom approval is granted under section 21, is or are

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
58  NO. 14 OF 2025

            contravening or not complying with, or has or have
            contravened or failed to comply with —

               (i) any condition of the approval; or

              (ii) any provision of this Act, the contravention of which
                   is not an offence under this Act,

       (b) and the Director‑General —

             (iii) has reasonable grounds to believe that there is, as a
                   result, a serious and imminent threat or risk to the
                   safety of the residents of the licensable SRH operated
                   by the licensee; and

             (iv) is satisfied that it is impracticable in the
                   circumstances of the particular case for the
                   Director‑General to complete any regulatory action
                   in accordance with section 34 to address the default
                   mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i) or (ii) because of the
                   threat or risk mentioned in sub‑paragraph (iii).

 (2) An interim order made under subsection (1) —

       (a) may suspend the approval granted under section 21 in
            respect of the approved individual; and

       (b) may be cancelled at any time by the Director‑General.

 (3) An interim order made under subsection (1) takes effect at any
time, being the earliest practicable time, that is determined by or
under that interim order and continues in force until either of the
following occurs, unless earlier confirmed under subsection (5):

       (a) the expiry date (if any) stated in the interim order is
            reached, which must not exceed 90 days;

       (b) the Director‑General cancels the interim order before the
            expiry date.

 (4) Before confirming any interim order made under subsection (1),
the Director‑General must give written notice to the licensee and
approved individual concerned —

       (a) stating that the Director‑General intends to confirm the
            interim order; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 59

       (b) specifying the period (being at least 7 days after the date of
            service of the written notice on the licensee and approved
            individual or, where the written notices are served on the
            licensee and approved individual on different dates, the
            later of those dates) within which written representations
            may be made to the Director‑General with respect to the
            proposed confirmation.

 (5) The Director‑General may decide to confirm or not to confirm
the interim order (with or without modification) as the
Director‑General considers appropriate —

       (a) after considering any written representation made to the
            Director‑General pursuant to the written notice in
            subsection (4); or

       (b) after the period specified in the written notice under
            subsection (4)(b) lapses, where no written representation is
            made or any written representation made is subsequently
            withdrawn.

 (6) The Director‑General must serve on the licensee and approved
individual concerned a written notice of the Director‑General’s
decision under subsection (5).

 (7) Every licensee and approved individual must comply with every
interim order given under this section to the licensee and approved
individual as soon as the interim order takes effect.

                                    PART 8

                     PROTECTION OF RESIDENTS

Boards of Visitors

 36.—(1) The Minister may appoint one or more Boards of Visitors
consisting of such number of members as the Minister thinks fit, to
perform the functions mentioned in subsection (4).

 (2) The members of a Board of Visitors are appointed for the period
specified by the Minister.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
60  NO. 14 OF 2025

 (3) An appointment under subsection (1) must be published in the
Gazette.

 (4) The functions of a Board of Visitors, in relation to a licensable
SRH to which a licence relates, are as follows:

       (a) to conduct a review —

               (i) of the living conditions of the licensable SRH; and

              (ii) if care, biopsychosocial intervention or support to
                   carry out daily activities is provided to the residents
                   of the licensable SRH, of the standard of care,
                   biopsychosocial intervention or support to carry out
                   daily activities so provided;

       (b) to make any recommendation to improve the living
            conditions, or standard of care, biopsychosocial
            intervention or support to carry out daily activities
            provided to the residents of the licensable SRH, that the
            Board of Visitors considers necessary.

 (5) For the purposes of carrying out the functions under
subsection (4) —

       (a) a member of a Board of Visitors may at any reasonable
            time of the day enter any licensable SRH and make any
            inquiry or examination that is necessary; and

       (b) a Board of Visitors must submit any report to the Minister
            that the Minister may require.

 (6) A person who —

       (a) refuses to allow a member of a Board of Visitors entry to
            any licensable SRH; or

       (b) hinders or obstructs the member from entering any
            licensable SRH after the member’s identity is reasonably
            established,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 61

Use of reasonable force and mechanical restraints on residents

 37.—(1) This section does not limit or affect in any way the
provisions or operation of the Penal Code 1871 or any other written
law relating to any matter that may be dealt with under this section.

 (2) A person who carries on any duty in a licensable SRH to which a
licence relates must not use force or any mechanical restraint on any
resident of a licensable SRH.

 (3) Despite subsection (2), the person‑in‑charge of a licensable
SRH or an authorised person may use force or a mechanical restraint
on a resident of the licensable SRH, if —

       (a) the licensable SRH is a licensable SRH prescribed, or a
            licensable SRH belonging to a type of licensable SRHs
            prescribed, for the purposes of this subsection;

       (b) the force or mechanical restraint is used on the resident for
            the purpose mentioned in subsection (4) and in accordance
            with the prescribed manner;

       (c) where force is used on the resident, the person‑in‑charge of
            the licensable SRH or the authorised person must not use
            on the resident more force than is reasonable and necessary
            for the purpose; and

       (d) the prescribed conditions (if any) are satisfied.

 (4) The purpose mentioned in subsection (3)(b) is to stop the
resident of the licensable SRH from any of the following:

       (a) inflicting personal injury to himself or herself, or to one or
            more other persons;

       (b) causing damage to any property;

       (c) committing, or attempting or preparing to commit, an
            offence;

       (d) contravening, or attempting or preparing to contravene,
            any rules or regulations relating to the discipline of
            residents of the licensable SRH;

       (e) absconding from a licensable SRH that is prescribed for the
            purposes of this paragraph.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
62  NO. 14 OF 2025

 (5) To avoid doubt, any force or mechanical restraint used by the
person‑in‑charge of a licensable SRH or an authorised person for the
purpose mentioned in subsection (4) must not also be used on the
resident as punishment.

 (6) The licensee of the licensable SRH must take reasonable
measures to ensure that subsection (3) is complied with in relation to
any use of force or mechanical restraint on a resident of the licensable
SRH.

 (7) In this section —

      “authorised person” means an employee of the licensee of the
         licensable SRH who —

              (a) has completed any training that may be specified by
                   the Director‑General on the use of appropriate force
                   and mechanical restraint on a resident of a licensable
                   SRH for the purpose mentioned in subsection (4);
                   and

              (b) is authorised by the person‑in‑charge of the
                   licensable SRH to use force or any mechanical
                   restraint on any resident of the licensable SRH for
                   that purpose;

      “mechanical restraint” means cloth bands, handcuffs, leg braces,
         flexi cuffs or any other similar means of restraint that may be
         prescribed.

 (8) For the purposes of subsection (3)(d), regulations may be made
to prescribe different conditions for different types of licensable
SRHs.

 (9) For the purposes of subsection (7), regulations may be made to
prescribe different types of mechanical restraints for different types
of licensable SRHs.

Restriction on publication or broadcast of information relating
to residents of relevant licensed SRHs

 38.—(1) Except with the prior approval of the Director‑General, a
person must not publish or broadcast any information or picture that
identifies, or is likely to lead to the identification of —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 63

       (a) any resident or former resident of a prescribed licensed
            SRH or a licensed SRH belonging to a prescribed type of
            licensable SRH (called in this section a relevant licensed
            SRH); or

       (b) the relevant licensed SRH at which the resident or former
            resident resides or resided, or the location of the relevant
            licensed SRH.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to —

       (a) the publication by a licensee of a relevant licensed SRH
            that the licensee is authorised to operate in any publication,
            or on the website, of the relevant licensed SRH; or

       (b) the publication or broadcast by an individual, or with the
            consent of the individual, of any information or picture that
            identifies, or is likely to lead to the identification of, that
            individual as a resident or former resident of a relevant
            licensed SRH.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2)(b), if an individual is below
18 years of age, a reference to the consent of the individual is a
reference to the consent of the individual’s parent or guardian.

 (4) If any information or picture is published or broadcast in
contravention of subsection (1) —

       (a) in the case of the publication of any information or picture
            as part of a newspaper or periodical publication — every
            proprietor, editor, publisher and distributor of the
            newspaper or periodical publication;

       (b) in the case of the publication of any information or picture
            otherwise than as part of a newspaper or periodical
            publication — every person who publishes or distributes
            the information or picture; or

       (c) in the case of the broadcast of any information or picture —

               (i) every person who broadcasts the information or
                   picture;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
64  NO. 14 OF 2025

              (ii) every person who transmits or provides the
                   programme in which the information or picture is
                   broadcast; and

             (iii) every person having functions in relation to the
                   programme corresponding to those of the editor of a
                   newspaper or periodical publication,

shall each be guilty of an offence and shall each be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or, in the case of a second or
subsequent conviction, to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

 (5) The court may, in addition to imposing any punishment
mentioned in subsection (4), order a person to do any one or more
of the following:

       (a) remove the publication, or stop the broadcast, of any
            information or picture that is in contravention of
            subsection (1);

       (b) remove the programme in which any information or
            picture is broadcast in contravention of subsection (1);

       (c) delete the information or picture that is published or
            broadcast in contravention of subsection (1);

       (d) take all reasonable steps to ensure that the information or
            picture that is published or broadcast in contravention of
            subsection (1) is no longer available on or through the
            Internet.

 (6) In this section, “licensed SRH” means a licensable SRH to
which a licence relates.

Order to remove publication or broadcast in contravention of
section 38

 39.—(1) A court may, on the application of any person, order a
person to do any one or more of the following:

       (a) remove the publication, or stop the broadcast, of any
            information or picture that is in contravention of
            section 38(1);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 65

       (b) remove the programme in which any information or
            picture is broadcast in contravention of section 38(1);

       (c) delete the information or picture that is published or
            broadcast in contravention of section 38(1);

       (d) take all reasonable steps to ensure that the information or
            picture that is published or broadcast in contravention of
            section 38(1) is no longer available on or through the
            Internet.

 (2) The court may make an order under subsection (1) even if —

       (a) the application is not served on the person against whom
            the order is to be made (called in this section the
            respondent) or is not served on the respondent within a
            reasonable time before the hearing of the application; or

       (b) when the application has been served on the respondent —
            the respondent does not appear at the hearing of the
            application,

if the court is satisfied, on a balance of probabilities, that the order is
necessary for the protection and safety of the resident or former
resident concerned, or of the residents of the relevant licensed SRH
concerned.

 (3) To avoid doubt, the court may make an order under
subsection (1) —

       (a) regardless of whether the respondent or any other person
            has been convicted of an offence under section 38(4) in
            relation to the information or picture mentioned in
            subsection (1); and

       (b) regardless of whether the information or picture mentioned
            in subsection (1) is published or broadcast before, on or
            after the date of commencement of this section.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
66  NO. 14 OF 2025

                                    PART 9

                              ENFORCEMENT

Purposes for which enforcement powers are exercisable

 40.—(1) An inspecting officer may exercise the powers set out in
this Part for all or any of the following purposes:

       (a) to detect and investigate any offence under this Act;

       (b) to determine whether there is any ground for taking any
            regulatory action under Part 7;

       (c) to determine whether information given to the inspecting
            officer under any provision of this Act is correct.

 (2) A compliance officer may exercise the powers set out in this
Part where specified, but subject to section 52(2) and (7) and to the
limits in the written authorisation issued under section 52 in respect of
the compliance officer; and any reference in this Act to a compliance
officer is a reference to a compliance officer who is so authorised.

Powers of entry, etc., at premises

 41.—(1) An inspecting officer may without warrant enter, at all
reasonable times, and remain at any premises —

       (a) that are used as a licensable SRH; or

       (b) that the inspecting officer has reasonable grounds to
            believe have been or are being used as a licensable SRH
            without a licence.

 (2) Upon entering any premises under subsection (1), the inspecting
officer may do all or any of the following:

       (a) examine anything or observe any activity conducted in or
            on the premises;

       (b) inspect the premises and anything in or on the premises;

       (c) make a still or moving image or recording of the premises
            or any document or other thing in or on the premises;

       (d) search any part of the premises;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 67

       (e) inspect any document found in or on the premises and take
            extracts from, or make copies of, the document;

        (f) seize any document or thing found in or on the premises if,
            in the opinion of an inspecting officer —

               (i) the inspection or copying of or extraction from the
                   document or thing cannot reasonably be performed
                   without taking possession;

              (ii) the document or thing may be interfered with or
                   destroyed unless possession is taken; or

             (iii) the document or thing may be required as evidence in
                   any criminal proceedings or regulatory action
                   instituted or commenced under this Act;

       (g) operate electronic equipment in or on the premises;

       (h) take into or onto the premises any equipment and materials
            that an inspecting officer requires for the purpose of
            exercising powers in this section in relation to those
            premises;

        (i) require any individual found in or on the premises to
            answer any question (to the best of that individual’s
            knowledge, information and belief) and to provide any
            document or information that the inspecting officer
            reasonably requires for any of the purposes of
            section 40(1).

 (3) An inspecting officer is not authorised to enter any premises
which are not premises mentioned in subsection (1) to exercise any
power mentioned in subsection (2) except —

       (a) with the consent of the occupier; or

       (b) under a warrant of a District Court or Magistrate’s Court.

 (4) A warrant mentioned in subsection (3)(b) may be issued if a
District Court or Magistrate’s Court is satisfied that it is necessary for
an inspecting officer to enter any premises to exercise any power
mentioned in subsection (2) for any of the purposes of section 40(1).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
68  NO. 14 OF 2025

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (2), if any information in a
document or thing required by the inspecting officer is kept in
electronic form —

       (a) the power of the inspecting officer to inspect the document
            or thing includes the power to —

               (i) access any computer or other equipment (including a
                   mobile communication device) in which the
                   information is stored; and

              (ii) require any person having charge of, or otherwise
                   concerned with the operation of, the computer or
                   other equipment to provide assistance in gaining
                   such access; and

       (b) the power of the inspecting officer to seize the document
            includes the power to —

               (i) make copies of the document in legible or electronic
                   form; and

              (ii) transfer the information from the document to a disk,
                   tape or other storage device.

 (6) If the inspecting officer is unable to make copies of the
document or transfer the information from the document under
subsection (5)(b), the inspecting officer may —

       (a) seize the computer or other equipment (including a mobile
            communication device) in which the document or
            information is stored as evidence in proceedings for an
            offence under this Act; and

       (b) require any person having charge of, or otherwise
            concerned with the operation of, the computer or other
            equipment to disclose any username, password, access
            code or other authentication information required for
            gaining access to the document or information held in
            the computer or other equipment.

 (7) The power of the inspecting officer under subsection (2)(g) to
operate electronic equipment in or on any premises includes the
power to —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 69

       (a) use a disk, tape or other storage device that is in or on the
            premises and can be used with or in association with the
            equipment;

       (b) operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to put
            the relevant data in documentary form and remove the
            documents so produced from the premises; and

       (c) operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to
            transfer the relevant data to a disk, tape or other storage
            device that —

               (i) is brought to the premises for the exercise of the
                   power; or

              (ii) is in or on the premises and the use of which for that
                   purpose has been agreed in writing by the occupier of
                   the premises,

       (c) and to remove the disk, tape or other storage device from
            those premises.

 (8) The power of the inspecting officer to require an individual to
provide any document or information under subsection (2)(i) includes
the power —

       (a) to require the individual to provide an explanation of the
            document or information;

       (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
            the individual to state, to the best of the individual’s
            knowledge, information and belief, where it is; and

       (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            inspecting officer in legible form.

Power to obtain information from licensee, etc.

 42.—(1) The powers in this section may be exercised only in
relation to the following:

       (a) any licensee;

       (b) any employee or former employee of a licensee;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
70  NO. 14 OF 2025

       (c) any key appointment holder or former key appointment
            holder of a licensee;

       (d) any person‑in‑charge or former person‑in‑charge of a
            licensable SRH;

       (e) any resident or former resident of a licensable SRH;

        (f) any individual found on any premises entered under
            section 41.

 (2) An inspecting officer or a compliance officer may by written
notice require any person mentioned in subsection (1) to provide,
within a reasonable period specified in the written notice, and in any
form and manner that may be specified in the written notice, all
documents and all information or material which —

       (a) relate to any matter which the inspecting officer or
            compliance officer considers necessary for any of the
            purposes of section 40(1); and

       (b) are —

               (i) within the knowledge of the person; or

              (ii) in the custody or under the control of the person.

 (3) The power to require a person mentioned in subsection (1) to
provide any document or any information or material under
subsection (2) includes the power —

       (a) to require the person to produce or grant access to the
            document or the information or material;

       (b) to require the person to provide an explanation of the
            document or the information or material;

       (c) if the document or the information or material is not
            produced, to require the person to state, to the best of the
            person’s knowledge, information and belief, where it is;
            and

       (d) if the information or material is recorded otherwise than in
            legible form, to require the information or material to be
            made available to the inspecting officer or compliance
            officer in legible form.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 71

 (4) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do anything
required of the person by written notice under subsection (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (5) A person who —

       (a) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any document
            or any information or material which the person is, has
            been or may be required by a written notice under
            subsection (2) to provide; or

       (b) in providing any document or any information or material
            required under subsection (2), makes any statement which
            the person knows or has reason to believe to be false or
            misleading in a material particular or recklessly makes the
            statement,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (6) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (4), it is a
defence for the accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that
the accused —

       (a) does not possess the document or the information or
            material required; and

       (b) has taken all reasonable steps available to the accused to
            obtain the document or the information or material
            required and has been unable to obtain that document or
            that information or material.

 (7) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of subsection (4), it is a
reasonable excuse for a person to refuse or fail to provide any
information or material, produce any document or answer any
question if doing so might tend to incriminate the person.

Power of examination

 43.—(1) An inspecting officer may, for the purposes of
section 40(1), do all or any of the following:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
72  NO. 14 OF 2025

       (a) require any person whom the inspecting officer reasonably
            believes to have committed an offence under any provision
            of this Act to provide evidence of that person’s identity;

       (b) require, by written notice, any person, whom the inspecting
            officer reasonably believes has —

               (i) any information or material; or

              (ii) any document in the person’s custody or control,

       (b) that is relevant to the investigation, to provide that
            information or material or that document, within the
            period and in any manner that may be specified in the
            written notice;

       (c) require, by written notice, any person within the limits of
            Singapore, who appears to be acquainted with the facts or
            circumstances of the matter, to attend before the inspecting
            officer;

       (d) examine orally any person who appears to be acquainted
            with the facts or circumstances of the matter —

               (i) whether before or after that person or anyone else is
                   charged with an offence in connection with the
                   matter; or

              (ii) whether or not that person is to be called as a witness
                   in any inquiry, trial or other proceeding in connection
                   with the matter.

 (2) A statement made by a person examined under subsection (1)(d)
must —

       (a) be reduced to writing;

       (b) be read over to the person;

       (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
            a language that the person understands; and

       (d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the person.

 (3) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do anything
required of the person under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 73

offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (4) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is a
defence for the accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that
the accused —

       (a) does not possess the information or material or the
            document required; and

       (b) has taken all reasonable steps available to the accused to
            obtain the information or material or the document
            required and has been unable to obtain it.

 (5) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of subsection (1), it is a
reasonable excuse for a person to refuse or fail to provide any
information, produce any document or answer any question if doing
so might tend to incriminate that person.

Application of Criminal Procedure Code 2010, etc.

 44.—(1) Sections 370, 371 and 372 of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010 apply, with the necessary modifications, when an
inspecting officer seizes any thing under this Part.

 (2) An inspecting officer or a compliance officer (as the case may
be) is entitled without payment to keep for the purposes of section 40
any document or information or material, or any copy or extract
thereof, provided to him or her under this Part.

Obstructing inspecting officer

 45.—(1) If an inspecting officer is authorised under this Act to enter
any premises, a person who —

       (a) wilfully prevents the inspecting officer from entering or
            re‑entering those premises or any part of those premises;

       (b) wilfully obstructs or delays the inspecting officer from
            entering or re‑entering those premises or any part of those
            premises; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
74  NO. 14 OF 2025

       (c) gives an alarm or causes an alarm to be given for the
            purpose of —

               (i) notifying anyone else of the presence of the
                   inspecting officer; or

              (ii) obstructing or delaying the inspecting officer from
                   entering or re‑entering those premises or any part of
                   those premises,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (2) A person who intentionally refuses to give access to, or
intentionally obstructs, hinders or delays an inspecting officer in the
discharge of the inspecting officer’s duties under any provision of this
Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 12 months or to both.

Notice to attend court

 46.—(1) Where it appears to an inspecting officer that any person
has committed an offence under this Act, the inspecting officer may
serve on the person a written notice in the prescribed form requiring
the person to attend the court, at the hour and on the date specified in
the written notice.

 (2) The inspecting officer must prepare a duplicate of the written
notice mentioned in subsection (1) and, if so required by a court,
produce the same to the court.

 (3) On an accused person appearing before a court pursuant to the
written notice, the court is to take cognisance of the offence alleged
and must proceed as though the accused person were produced before
the court under section 153 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

 (4) If a person, on whom the written notice has been served, fails to
appear before a court in accordance with the written notice, the court
must then issue a warrant for the arrest of that person.

 (5) Upon a person arrested pursuant to a warrant issued under
subsection (4) being produced before a court, the court must proceed

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 75

as though the person were produced under section 153 of the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010.

Composition of offences

 47.—(1) The Director‑General may compound any offence under
this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting
from a person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence
a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $10,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                   PART 10

                                   APPEALS

Interpretation of this Part

 48. In this Part —

      “appealable decision” means any of the following decisions of
         the Director‑General:

              (a) a decision under section 8 refusing the grant or
                   renewal of a licence;

              (b) a decision under section 10 imposing a condition in
                   respect of a licence;

              (c) a modification under section 11 of a condition of a
                   licence;

              (d) a refusal to give consent under section 12 to a
                   variation of the maximum capacity of a licensable
                   SRH;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
76  NO. 14 OF 2025

            (e) a refusal to give consent under section 13 to a transfer
                 or an assignment of a licence;

            (f) a decision under section 21 refusing the grant of a
                 section 21 approval;

            (g) a decision under section 22 imposing a condition in
                 respect of a section 21 approval;

            (h) a modification under section 23 of a condition of a
                 section 21 approval;

            (i) the issue, approval or amendment of a code of
                 practice applicable to a licensee or class of licensees
                 under section 24, in respect of any provision in the
                 code of practice;

            (j) a direction given under section 25 or 26;

            (k) a decision under section 30(1) to revoke a licence;

            (l) a decision under section 30(2) to take regulatory
                 action against a licensee;

           (m) a confirmed interim order made under section 32 in
                 respect of a licensee;

            (n) a decision under section 33(1) to cancel a section 21
                 approval;

            (o) a decision under section 33(2) to take regulatory
                 action in respect of a section 21 approval;

            (p) a confirmed interim order made under section 35 in
                 respect of a section 21 approval;

    “appellant” means the following in relation to an appealable
       decision:

            (a) an applicant for the grant or renewal of a licence,
                 where the appealable decision is within paragraph (a)
                 of the definition of “appealable decision”;

            (b) a licensee, where the appealable decision is within
                 paragraph (b), (c), (d) or (i) of the definition of
                 “appealable decision”;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 77

        (c) the applicants for the Director‑General’s consent for
             a transfer or an assignment of a licence under
             section 13, where the appealable decision is within
             paragraph (e) of the definition of “appealable
             decision”;

        (d) the applicants for the grant of a section 21 approval,
             where the appealable decision is within paragraph (f)
             of the definition of “appealable decision”;

        (e) the grantees of a section 21 approval, where the
             appealable decision is within paragraph (g) or (h) of
             the definition of “appealable decision”;

        (f) the recipient of a direction given by the
             Director‑General under section 25 or 26, where the
             appealable decision is within paragraph (j) of the
             definition of “appealable decision”;

        (g) a licensee or former licensee, where the appealable
             decision is within paragraph (k), (l) or (m) of the
             definition of “appealable decision”;

        (h) the grantees or former grantees of a section 21
             approval, where the appealable decision is within
             paragraph (n), (o) or (p) of the definition of
             “appealable decision”;

“maximum capacity” has the meaning given by section 12(1);

“section 21 approval” means an approval granted by the
   Director‑General under section 21 for a licensee to —

        (a) appoint a person as a key appointment holder of the
             licensee;

        (b) appoint a person as the person‑in‑charge of the
             licensable SRH to which the licensee’s licence
             relates; or

        (c) deploy an individual to carry out a prescribed duty or
             a duty belonging to a prescribed class of duties in
             relation to —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
78  NO. 14 OF 2025

                     (i) the operation of the licensable SRH to which
                          the licensee’s licence relates; or

                     (ii) the management of the residents of that
                          licensable SRH.

Appeal to Minister

 49.—(1) An appellant who is aggrieved by an appealable decision
may appeal to the Minister against the appealable decision in
accordance with this section.

 (2) An appeal under this section must —

       (a) be in writing;

       (b) specify the grounds on which it is made; and

       (c) be made within the prescribed period after the date the
            appealable decision appealed against is given to the
            appellant, or any longer period that the Minister may
            allow in any particular case for special reasons.

 (3) The Minister may reject an appeal of an appellant that fails to
comply with subsection (2).

 (4) After consideration of an appeal, the Minister may —

       (a) reject the appeal and confirm the appealable decision; or

       (b) allow the appeal and substitute or vary the appealable
            decision.

 (5) The Minister’s decision on an appeal is final.

 (6) Every appellant must be notified of the Minister’s decision
under subsection (4) in writing.

 (7) An appeal against an appealable decision —

       (a) does not affect the operation of the appealable decision
            appealed against or prevent the taking of any action to
            implement the decision; and

       (b) unless otherwise directed by the Minister, the appealable
            decision appealed against must be complied with until the
            determination of the appeal.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 79

Designate may hear appeal in place of Minister

 50.—(1) The Minister may designate any of the following
office‑holders in his or her Ministry to hear and determine, in the
Minister’s place, any appeal made under section 49:

       (a) the Second Minister, if any;

       (b) any Minister of State or Senior Minister of State;

       (c) any Parliamentary Secretary or Senior Parliamentary
            Secretary.

 (2) A reference to the Minister in section 49 includes a reference to
a person designated under subsection (1).

                                    PART 11

                            ADMINISTRATION

Authorised officers

 51.—(1) The Director‑General may, in relation to any provision of
this Act, appoint any of the following individuals to be an authorised
officer for the purposes of that provision, either generally or in a
particular case:

       (a) a public officer;

       (b) an employee of a public authority.

 (2) The Director‑General may delegate the exercise of all or any of
the powers conferred or duties imposed upon the Director‑General by
any provision of this Act, to any authorised officer, subject to any
conditions or limitations that the Director‑General may specify; and
any reference in that provision of this Act or its subsidiary legislation
to the Director‑General includes a reference to the authorised officer.

 (3) However, nothing in subsection (2) authorises delegating the
power of delegation conferred by that subsection.

Compliance officers

 52.—(1) The Director‑General may, with the general or specific
approval of the Minister, appoint an individual who —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
80  NO. 14 OF 2025

       (a) is not an employee of any public authority and not a public
            officer;

       (b) is at least 21 years of age; and

       (c) has suitable qualifications or experience,

to be a compliance officer.

 (2) The function and duty of a compliance officer are to assist an
inspecting officer in the exercise of enforcement powers in
section 42 —

       (a) when the compliance officer is in or on any premises in
            Singapore —

               (i) that are used as a licensable SRH; or

              (ii) where a licensee has an office or keeps records that
                   relate to any licensable SRH operated by the
                   licensee; and

       (b) in relation to any of the following only:

               (i) any licensee;

              (ii) any employee or former employee of a licensee;

             (iii) any key appointment holder or former key
                   appointment holder of a licensee;

             (iv) any person‑in‑charge or former person‑in‑charge of a
                   licensee.

 (3) The Director‑General must issue to each compliance officer an
identification card, which must be carried at all times by the
compliance officer when exercising any power under this Act.

 (4) A compliance officer whose appointment as such ceases must
without delay return any identification card issued to him or her under
subsection (3) to the Director‑General.

 (5) The Director‑General must also issue to each compliance
officer a written authorisation specifying —

       (a) such of the powers specified in section 42 as are
            exercisable by a compliance officer, and no other
            powers; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 81

       (b) the particular premises or description of premises in
            Singapore where the compliance officer may exercise all
            or any of those powers, provided that the premises are —

               (i) used as a licensable SRH; or

              (ii) where a licensee has an office or keeps records that
                   relate to any licensable SRH operated by the
                   licensee.

 (6) The written authorisation of the Director‑General issued to a
compliance officer under subsection (5) may also do either or both of
the following:

       (a) limit when the compliance officer may exercise all or any
            of those powers;

       (b) limit the circumstances in which the compliance officer
            may exercise all or any of those powers.

 (7) To avoid doubt, the Director‑General cannot authorise under
this section a compliance officer —

       (a) to detain or arrest any individual;

       (b) to search any place or individual; or

       (c) to seize any property.

 (8) The powers that a compliance officer may be authorised under
this section to exercise may be exercised only —

       (a) on production of the identification card issued under
            subsection (3);

       (b) to the extent authorised by the Director‑General under
            subsection (5); and

       (c) as directed (generally or specially) by an inspecting officer.

 (9) A compliance officer who is authorised under subsection (5) to
exercise any power expressly specified in that written authorisation
as exercisable by a compliance officer is deemed to be a public
servant for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871 when exercising that
power.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
82  NO. 14 OF 2025

 (10) To avoid doubt, a compliance officer does not cease to be
acting on the direction of an inspecting officer by reason only that the
inspecting officer is not present at any time.

 (11) An individual who is appointed as a compliance officer under
subsection (1) does not, by virtue only of the appointment, become an
agent of the Government.

 (12) The Director‑General may, for any reason that appears to the
Director‑General to be sufficient, at any time revoke an individual’s
appointment as a compliance officer.

                                   PART 12

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Protection of persons giving information to inspecting
officer, etc.

 53.—(1) A person who knows, or has reason to suspect, that an
offence under this Act has been committed may make a notification to
an inspecting officer of the facts and circumstances on which the
person’s knowledge or suspicion is based.

 (2) A person who makes a notification under subsection (1) —

       (a) cannot, by virtue of doing so, be held in any proceedings
            before any court or tribunal or in any other respect to have
            breached any restriction on disclosure imposed by any rule
            of law, contract or rule of professional etiquette or ethics,
            or to have departed from any accepted form of professional
            conduct; and

       (b) insofar as the person had acted in good faith, incurs no civil
            or criminal liability for making the notification or
            providing any information contained in the notification.

 (3) A person appearing as a witness in any proceedings in any court
or tribunal before a person authorised by law to hear evidence cannot
be compelled —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 83

       (a) to disclose the identity of any person who has made a
            notification under subsection (1) or any information likely
            to lead to the disclosure of the identity of the person; or

       (b) to produce any report or document (or any part of a report
            or document) which identifies, or is likely to identify, any
            person who has made a notification under subsection (1).

Protection from personal liability

 54. No liability shall lie personally against any of the following
persons who, acting in good faith and with reasonable care, does or
omits to do anything in the execution or purported execution of this
Act:

       (a) the Director‑General;

       (b) any authorised officer;

       (c) any member of a Board of Visitors;

       (d) any other person acting under the direction of the
            Director‑General.

Offences by corporations

 55.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
84  NO. 14 OF 2025

                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or

             (iii) knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that the
                   offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                   type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                   take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                   commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership;

      “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
         partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the corporation, and includes —

              (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 85

        (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
             members, any of those members as if the member
             were a director of the corporation;

“reasonable steps”, in relation to the commission of an offence,
   includes, but is not limited to, such action (if any) of the
   following kinds as is reasonable in all the circumstances:

        (a) action towards —

               (i) assessing the corporation’s compliance with
                    the provision creating the offence; and

               (ii) ensuring that the corporation arranged regular
                    professional assessments of its compliance
                    with the provision;

        (b) action towards ensuring that the corporation’s
             employees, agents and contractors are provided
             with information, training, instruction and
             supervision appropriate to them to enable them to
             comply with the provision creating the offence so far
             as the provision is relevant to them;

        (c) action towards ensuring that —

               (i) the equipment and other resources; and

               (ii) the structures, work systems and other
                    processes,

        (c) relevant to compliance with the provision creating
             the offence are appropriate in all the circumstances;

        (d) action towards creating and maintaining a corporate
             culture that does not direct, encourage, tolerate or
             lead to non‑compliance with the provision creating
             the offence;

“state of mind” of a person includes —

        (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
             of the person; and

        (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
             or purpose.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
86  NO. 14 OF 2025

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with any modifications that the Minister
considers appropriate, to any corporation formed or recognised under
the law of a country or territory outside Singapore.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 56.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership (as the
case may be) had that state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                   case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                   offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 87

                   commission of the offence by the unincorporated
                   association or partnership; or

             (iii) knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that the
                   offence by the unincorporated association or
                   partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                   be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                   reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                   that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
         a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
         member of a committee of the unincorporated association,
         and includes —

              (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
                   president, secretary or member of a committee of the
                   unincorporated association; and

              (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
88  NO. 14 OF 2025

      “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

      “reasonable steps” has the meaning given by section 55(6)
         except that any reference to the corporation is a reference to
         the unincorporated association or a partnership mentioned in
         subsection (2);

      “state of mind” has the meaning given by section 55(6).

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with any modifications that the Minister
considers appropriate, to any unincorporated association or
partnership formed or recognised under the law of a country or
territory outside Singapore.

Jurisdiction of courts

 57. Despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, a District Court or a
Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act
and has power to impose the full punishment for the offence.

Service of documents

 58.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
            if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
            address or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 89

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual; or

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner, secretary or other similar officer
            of the partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the partnership’s business address;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
            partnership’s business address; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
            address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
            body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
            limited liability partnership’s manager;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the registered office or principal office in Singapore of
            the body corporate or unincorporated association;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the registered
            office or principal office in Singapore of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
90  NO. 14 OF 2025

 (5) Service of a document takes effect —

       (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
            successful transmission is received, on the day of
            transmission;

       (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
            becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
            it is sent; or

       (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
            after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
            undelivered).

 (6) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email may be effected only with the person’s prior written consent to
service in that way.

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

 (8) In this section —

      “business address” means —

              (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
                   last known place of business in Singapore; or

              (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
                   liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
                   last known place of business in Singapore;

      “document” includes a notice or an order permitted or required
         by this Act to be served;

      “last email address” means the last email address given by the
         addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
         document as the email address for the service of documents
         under this Act;

      “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
         place of residence in Singapore.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 91

Exemption

 59. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person
or class of persons, or any premises or class of premises, from all or
any of the provisions of this Act, either generally or in a particular
case and subject to any condition that the Minister may impose.

Amendment of Schedules

 60.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend, add to
or vary the First or Second Schedule.

 (2) The Minister may, in an order under subsection (1), make any
provision of a saving or transitional nature consequent on the
enactment of the order that the Minister considers necessary or
expedient.

 (3) All orders made under subsection (1) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Regulations

 61.—(1) The Minister may make regulations necessary or
convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this
Act.

 (2) In particular, the Minister may make regulations for any of the
following:

       (a) the form and manner in which, and the time within which,
            an application for the grant or renewal of a licence or the
            Director‑General’s approval or consent may be made under
            this Act;

       (b) the carrying out of inquiries or investigations in relation to
            applications for a licence or the Director‑General’s
            approval or consent under this Act;

       (c) the fees to be paid in respect of an application for the grant
            or renewal of a licence or the Director‑General’s approval
            or consent under any provision of this Act, and of anything
            else done by the Director‑General in connection with the
            administration of this Act, and the waiver, reduction or
            refund of fees charged;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
92  NO. 14 OF 2025

    (d) the registers to be kept for the purposes of this Act;

    (e) the duties and responsibilities of licensees;

    (f) the operation, management and supervision of, and the
         admission of residents to, licensable SRHs;

    (g) the management and discipline of residents of licensable
         SRHs;

    (h) the standards of accommodation, public health and
         sanitation and other amenities to be provided in
         licensable SRHs;

    (i) in respect of licensable SRHs belonging to a type of
         licensable SRHs that provides care, biopsychosocial
         intervention or support to carry out daily activities to
         residents of those licensable SRHs, the standards of care,
         biopsychosocial intervention or support to carry out daily
         activities to be provided to residents of those licensable
         SRHs;

    (j) the control and supervision of activities in licensable
         SRHs;

    (k) the records to be kept by licensees, and the provision of
         returns and other information with respect to any
         licensable SRH, licence or other approval or consent of
         the Director‑General;

    (l) the duties and responsibilities of an approved individual in
         carrying out —

           (i) the approved individual’s duty as a key appointment
                holder;

          (ii) the approved individual’s duty as the
                person‑in‑charge of a licensable SRH; or

          (iii) a prescribed duty or a duty belonging to a prescribed
                class of duties in relation to —

                 (A) the operation of a licensable SRH; or

                 (B) the management of the residents of a licensable
                       SRH;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 93

      (m) the safety measures and precautions to be taken in
            licensable SRHs;

       (n) the constitution, functions and procedures of Boards of
            Visitors;

       (o) the manner in which appeals may be made to the Minister
            under this Act and the procedure for those appeals;

       (p) all matters and things required or permitted to be
            prescribed under or for the purposes of this Act.

 (3) Regulations made under subsection (2)(l) may make different
provisions for —

       (a) approved individuals who carry out different duties or
            classes of duties in the operation, management and
            supervision of a licensable SRH; and

       (b) approved individuals who carry out a duty or a class of
            duties in the operation, management and supervision of
            different types of licensable SRHs.

 (4) Regulations made under this section may —

       (a) apply in respect of all licences or particular classes of
            licences;

       (b) apply in respect of all licensable SRHs or particular types
            of licensable SRHs;

       (c) prescribe the offences under this Act that may be
            compounded; and

       (d) provide that any contravention of any provision of the
            regulations shall be an offence punishable with a fine not
            exceeding $20,000 or with imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 12 months or with both and, in the case of a
            continuing offence, with a further fine not exceeding
            $1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
            offence continues after conviction.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
94  NO. 14 OF 2025

                                   PART 13

           REPEAL, CONSEQUENTIAL AND RELATED
                  AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS
                        AND FINAL PROVISIONS

Amendment of Central Provident Fund Act 1953

 62. In the Central Provident Fund Act 1953, in the Third
Schedule —

       (a) delete item 19; and

       (b) after item 40, insert —
               “40A. Social Residential Homes Act 2025”.

Amendment of Children and Young Persons Act 1993

 63. In the Children and Young Persons Act 1993 —

       (a) in the long title, delete “, to regulate homes for children and
            young persons”;

       (b) in section 2(1), after the definition of “foster parent”,
            insert —

                  “ “Government home for children and young persons”
                        means a home for children and young persons
                        that is operated by the Government;”;

       (c) in section 2(1), replace the definition of “home for children
            and young persons” with —

                  “ “home for children and young persons” has the
                        meaning given by the First Schedule to the Social
                        Residential Homes Act 2025;”;

       (d) in section 2(1), replace the definitions of “licence”,
            “licensed home for children and young persons” and
            “person‑in‑charge” with —

                  “ “licensed home for children and young persons”
                        means a home for children and young persons
                        that is licensed or deemed to be licensed as a
                        social residential home under the Social
                        Residential Homes Act 2025;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 95

“person‑in‑charge” —

           (a) in relation to —

                   (i) a licensed home for children
                       and young persons; or

                  (ii) a juvenile rehabilitation centre,
                       place of detention, place of
                       safety, place of temporary care
                       and protection or remand home
                       that is a licensed home for
                       children and young persons
                       mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i),

           (a) has the meaning given by section 2(1)
                of the Social Residential Homes
                Act 2025;

           (b) in relation to —

                   (i) a home for children and young
                       persons which is a Government
                       home for children and young
                       persons or is exempt from
                       having to be licensed as a
                       social residential home under
                       the Social Residential Homes
                       Act 2025; or

                  (ii) a juvenile rehabilitation centre,
                       place of detention, place of
                       safety, place of temporary care
                       and protection or remand home
                       that is a home for children and
                       young persons mentioned in
                       sub‑paragraph (i),

           (b) means —

                 (iii) a director, manager or
                       superintendent of that centre,
                       place or home; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
96  NO. 14 OF 2025

                                   (iv) any other person having the
                                         management or control of that
                                         centre, place or home; or

                             (c) in relation to a juvenile rehabilitation
                                  centre, place of detention, place of
                                  safety, place of temporary care and
                                  protection or remand home that is not
                                  a home for children and young
                                  persons, means —

                                    (i) a director, manager or
                                         superintendent of that centre,
                                         place or home; or

                                    (ii) any other person having the
                                         management or control of that
                                         centre, place or home;”;

    (e) in Part 3A, replace the Part heading with —

.   “INSPECTION OF GOVERNMENT HOMES FOR

    CHILDREN AND YOUNG PERSONS AND

    BOARD OF REVIEW, ETC.”;

    (f) delete sections 62 to 66 and 69 to 78;

    (g) in section 67, in the section heading, after “Inspection of”,
         insert “Government”;

    (h) in section 67, replace subsection (1) with —

                “(1) The Director‑General and any officer
               authorised by the Director‑General may —

                      (a) at any time, enter and inspect any
                           Government home for children and young
                           persons;

                      (b) require any person taking part in the
                           operation or management of a
                           Government home for children and young
                           persons to —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 97

(i) produce any record, document or
    other article relating to the
    management of the Government
    home for children and young
    persons or to any other activity in
    respect of the Government home for
    children and young persons; and

(ii) provide any other information

relating to the management or

activity  mentioned                                      in

sub‑paragraph (i);

(c) remove for further examination any record,
    document or other article which the
    Director‑General or authorised officer has
    reason to suspect is evidence of the
    commission of an offence under this Act;
    and

(d) do any other thing that is necessary for the
     inspection of a Government home for
     children and young persons.”;

(i) in section 68(3), replace “The” with “Subject to
    subsection (3A), the”;

(j) in section 68(3)(a), replace “licensed home for children
    and young persons” with “Government home for children
    and young persons”;

(k) in section 68(3)(a), replace “the licensed home” with “the
    home”;

(l) in section 68(3)(b), after “admitted to a”, insert
    “Government home for children and young persons or”;

(m) in section 68, after subsection (3), insert —

 “(3A) Despite subsection (3)(b), the Review Board
is not required to review a case of a child or young
person who is admitted to a Government home for
children and young persons or licensed home for

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
98  NO. 14 OF 2025

                  children and young persons pursuant to a probation
                  order made under section 5 of the Probation of
                  Offenders Act 1951, with a view to ensuring that a
                  proper care plan is in place for the child or young
                  person, unless the Director‑General is satisfied that
                  there are exceptional circumstances requiring such a
                  review.”;

       (n) in section 68(4), after “at any time any”, insert
            “Government home for children and young persons or”;

       (o) in section 94(1), replace “any home for children and young
            persons that is operated by or under the management or
            control of the Government” with “any prescribed
            Government home for children and young persons”;

       (p) in section 94(2)(a) and (b), replace “the home” with “the
            prescribed Government home for children and young
            persons”; and

       (q) in section 94(3)(a) and (4), replace “home for children and
            young persons” with “prescribed Government home for
            children and young persons”.

Amendment of Destitute Persons Act 1989

 64. In the Destitute Persons Act 1989 —

       (a) in section 2(1), after the definition of “Director‑General”,
            insert —

                  “ “key appointment holder”, in relation to a licensee,
                        has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
                        Social Residential Homes Act 2025;

                     “licensee”, in relation to a welfare home, means a
                        person who is authorised to operate the welfare
                        home under a licence granted or deemed to be
                        granted under the Social Residential Homes
                        Act 2025;

                     “person‑in‑charge”, in relation to a welfare home,
                        has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 99

                Social Residential Homes Act 2025, except
                that —

                         (a) every reference to a licensable SRH
                              to which a licensee’s licence relates or
                              a licensable SRH, is a reference to the
                              welfare home that is licensed under
                              the Social Residential Homes
                              Act 2025; and

                         (b) every reference to a licensee is a
                              reference to the licensee of the
                              welfare home;”;

(b) in section 2(1), delete the definition of “superintendent”;

(c) in section 3(2) and (4), replace “If” with “Subject to
     section 7(2), if”;

(d) in section 7, replace subsections (2) and (3) with —

            “(2) Despite subsection (1), the Director‑General
           must not arrange for a person to be temporarily
           admitted into a welfare home or require a person to
           reside in a welfare home unless the operation of the
           welfare home is authorised by a licence under the
           Social Residential Homes Act 2025.”;

(e) delete section 8;

(f) in section 9, delete paragraph (a);

(g) in section 16(b), delete “without permission of the
     superintendent,”;

(h) in section 16(b), after “section 5”, insert “, without the
     permission of the person‑in‑charge of the welfare home”;
     and

(i) in section 16(c), replace “the permission of the
     superintendent leaves a” with “the permission of the
     person‑in‑charge of a welfare home to leave the”.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
100  NO. 14 OF 2025

Amendment of Early Childhood Development Centres
Act 2017

 65. In the Early Childhood Development Centres Act 2017, in the
Schedule, in item 5, replace “Children and Young Persons Act 1993”
with “Social Residential Homes Act 2025”.

Repeal of Homes for the Aged Act 1988

 66. Repeal the Homes for the Aged Act 1988.

Saving and transitional provisions for adult disability homes

 67. The Third Schedule has effect in relation to any adult disability
home as defined in the First Schedule that was in operation
immediately before the date of commencement of section 6.

Saving and transitional provisions for homes for children and
young persons

 68. The Fourth Schedule has effect in relation to any home for
children and young persons as defined in the First Schedule that was
in operation immediately before the date of commencement of
section 6.

Saving and transitional provisions for sheltered homes
 69. The Fifth Schedule has effect in relation to any sheltered home

as defined in the First Schedule that was in operation immediately
before the date of commencement of section 6.

Saving and transitional provisions for welfare homes
 70. The Sixth Schedule has effect in relation to any welfare home as

defined in the First Schedule that was in operation immediately
before the date of commencement of section 6.

General saving and transitional provisions
 71.—(1) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of

any provision of this Act, the Minister may, by regulations, prescribe
any additional provisions of a saving or transitional nature

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 101

consequent on the enactment of that provision that the Minister may
consider necessary or expedient.

 (2) To avoid doubt, nothing in this Part affects section 16 of the
Interpretation Act 1965.

                             FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                              Sections 2 and 60(1)

                 LICENSABLE SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES

 1. For the purposes of the definition of “licensable social residential home” or
“licensable SRH” in section 2(1), “licensable social residential home” or
“licensable SRH” means any of the following:

        (a) an adult disability home;

        (b) a home for children and young persons;

        (c) a sheltered home;

        (d) a welfare home.

 2. In this Schedule —

      “adult disability home” means any premises that provide residential
         accommodation, care, biopsychosocial intervention, and support to
         carry out daily activities to any individual who —

                (a) is 18 years of age or older at the time of the individual’s
                     admission to the premises as a resident; and

                (b) has autism or any intellectual, physical or sensory disability or
                     any combination of those disabilities,

         but does not include any healthcare premises or premises used as a welfare
         home;

                                                                                    [S 470/2026 wef 01/07/2026]

      “approved permanent premises” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
         Healthcare Services Act 2020;

                                                                                    [S 470/2026 wef 01/07/2026]

      “boarding school” means a school that provides accommodation and board
         for pupils during term time;

      “child” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Children and Young
         Persons Act 1993;

        [Deleted by S 470/2026 wef 01/07/2026]

      “elderly person” means an individual who is 60 years of age or older;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
102  NO. 14 OF 2025

     FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

     “healthcare premises” means any approved permanent premises used for the
        provision of any of the following healthcare services under a licence
        granted under the Healthcare Services Act 2020:

     (a) an acute hospital service within the meaning of the First
          Schedule to the Healthcare Services Act 2020;

     (b) a community hospital service within the meaning of the First
          Schedule to the Healthcare Services Act 2020;

     (c) a contingency care service within the meaning of the First
         Schedule to the Healthcare Services Act 2020;

     (d) a nursing home service within the meaning of the First Schedule
          to the Healthcare Services Act 2020;

                                                                    [S 470/2026 wef 01/07/2026]

     “home for children and young persons” means any premises that provide
        residential accommodation with board and care to any child or young
        person for the purposes of his or her protection or rehabilitation or both,
        but does not include any healthcare premises or a boarding school that is
        registered or exempt from registration under the Education Act 1957 or
        the Private Education Act 2009;

                                             [S 470/2026 wef 01/07/2026]

     [Deleted by S 470/2026 wef 01/07/2026]

     “sheltered home” means any premises that provide residential
        accommodation, care and support to carry out daily activities to elderly
        persons, but does not include —

     (a) any healthcare premises; or

                                             [S 470/2026 wef 01/07/2026]

     (b) any premises used as an adult disability home or a welfare
          home;

                                                                    [S 470/2026 wef 01/07/2026]

     “welfare home” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Destitute
        Persons Act 1989;

     “young person” means a person who is 14 years of age or older but below
        21 years of age.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                              103

                        SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                         Sections 32(1)(a)(iv), 35(1)(a)(iv) and
                                                                                                  60(1)

                         SPECIFIED OFFENCES

              Offences                   Description

Adoption of Children Act 2022

1. Section 55                     Prohibition against payments and
                                  rewards for non‑permitted purposes

2. Section 56                     Use of fraud, duress, undue influence
                                  or other improper means to obtain
                                  consent to adoption, etc.

3. Section 57                     Restriction on placement of child, etc.

Children and Young Persons Act 1993

1. Section 7                      Contributing to delinquency of child or
                                  young person

2. Section 14                     Restrictions on children and young
                                  persons taking part in public
                                  entertainment

Employment Act 1968

1. Section 108                    Wrongful detention of employee

Employment of Foreign Manpower Act 1990

1. Section 22(1)(e) or (f)        Offences relating to work passes, etc.

Films Act 1981

1. Section 29                     Offences involving dealings in obscene
                                  films

2. Section 30                     Possession of obscene films

3. Section 31                     Advertising obscene films

4. Section 32                     Offences involving children and young
                                  persons

Healthcare Services Act 2020

1. Section 8                      Provision of licensable healthcare
                                  service without licence, etc.

Intoxicating Substances Act 1987

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
104                     NO. 14 OF 2025

                 SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

              Offences                       Description

1. Section 3            Offence of misuse of intoxicating
                        substances

2. Section 4            Offence of supply of intoxicating
                        substances

Medicines Act 1975

1. Section 20           Offences relating to licences and
                        certificates relating to medicinal
                        products

2. Section 35           Offences relating to dealings with
                        medicinal products

Mental Health (Care and Treatment) Act 2008

1. Section 22           Offences against patients

Penal Code 1871

1. Section 298          Uttering words, etc., with deliberate
                        intent to wound the racial feelings of
                        any person

2. Section 323          Voluntarily causing hurt

3. Section 334          Voluntarily causing hurt on
                        provocation

4. Section 341          Wrongful restraint

5. Section 342          Wrongful confinement

6. Section 352          Assault or criminal force otherwise
                        than on grave and sudden provocation

7. Section 357          Assault or criminal force in attempting
                        wrongfully to confine a person

8. Section 358          Assaulting or using criminal force on
                        grave and sudden provocation

9. Section 374          Unlawful compulsory labour

10. Section 377BA       Word or gesture intended to insult
                        modesty of any person

Protection from Harassment Act 2014

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 105

SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

                  Offences                  Description
  1. Section 3              Intentionally causing harassment,
                            alarm, distress or humiliation
  2. Section 4              Harassment, alarm, distress or
                            humiliation
  3. Section 5              Fear, provocation or facilitation of
                            violence
  4. Section 7              Unlawful stalking
Vulnerable Adults Act 2018
                            Unlawful removal of vulnerable adult
  1. Section 21
Women’s Charter 1961        Committing a family violence offence

  1. Section 63C

                            [S 471/2026 wef 01/07/2026]

                            THIRD SCHEDULE

                                                                                                           Section 67

               SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR
                             ADULT DISABILITY HOMES

 1. In this Schedule, “appointed day” means the date of commencement of
section 6.

 2.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, a person who —

        (a) immediately before the appointed day, was operating an adult
             disability home; and

        (b) on or after the appointed day, would be required under section 6 to be
             authorised to operate the adult disability home by a licence,

may continue operating the adult disability home on or after the appointed day —

        (c) until the expiry of 6 months after the appointed day; or

        (d) if, before the expiry of the 6‑month period after the appointed day, the
             person has applied under section 7 for a licence to operate the adult
             disability home and the application has not been granted, refused or
             withdrawn on or before that date — for the period mentioned in
             sub‑paragraph (2).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
106  NO. 14 OF 2025

                           THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

 (2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1)(d), the period is a period ending on the
earlier of the following dates:

        (a) the date on which the Director‑General grants a licence under section 8
             to the person;

        (b) the date that the application for a licence is finally refused by the
             Director‑General under section 8 or withdrawn.

 3.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, every individual who, immediately before
the appointed day, was acting as a key appointment holder of the person
mentioned in paragraph 2(1) (called in this Schedule the operator), may continue
to act as such on or after the appointed day —

        (a) until the expiry of 6 months after the appointed day; or

        (b) if, before the expiry of the 6‑month period after the appointed day, the
             operator has applied under section 7 for a licence to operate the adult
             disability home and the application has not been granted, refused or
             withdrawn on or before that date — for the period mentioned in
             sub‑paragraph (2).

 (2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1)(b), the period is —

        (a) a period ending on the date that the operator’s application for a licence
             is finally refused by the Director‑General under section 8 or
             withdrawn; or

        (b) where the Director‑General grants a licence under section 8 to the
             operator —

                  (i) 6 months after the licence is granted to the operator (now also
                      the licensee); or

                 (ii) if, within the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i), an
                      application is made under section 20 for approval for the
                      licensee to appoint the individual as a key appointment holder
                      of the licensee, the period that ends on the earlier of the
                      following dates:

                       (A) the date on which the Director‑General grants the
                             approval under section 21;

                        (B) the date on which the application for approval is finally
                             refused by the Director‑General under section 21 or
                             withdrawn.

 4.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, an individual who, immediately before the
appointed day, was acting as the person‑in‑charge of the adult disability home

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 107

                           THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

mentioned in paragraph 2(1), may continue to act as such on or after the appointed
day —

        (a) until the expiry of 6 months after the appointed day; or

        (b) if, before the expiry of the 6‑month period after the appointed day, the
             operator has applied under section 7 for a licence to operate the adult
             disability home and the application has not been granted, refused or
             withdrawn on or before that date — for the period mentioned in
             sub‑paragraph (2).

 (2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1)(b), the period is —

        (a) a period ending on the date that the operator’s application for a licence
             is finally refused by the Director‑General under section 8 or
             withdrawn; or

        (b) where the Director‑General grants a licence under section 8 to the
             operator —

                  (i) 6 months after the licence is granted to the operator (now also
                      the licensee); or

                 (ii) if, within the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i), an
                      application is made under section 20 for approval for the
                      licensee to appoint the individual as the person‑in‑charge of the
                      adult disability home, the period that ends on the earlier of the
                      following dates:

                       (A) the date on which the Director‑General grants the
                             approval under section 21;

                        (B) the date on which the application for approval is finally
                             refused by the Director‑General under section 21 or
                             withdrawn.

 5.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, every individual who, immediately before
the appointed day, was deployed by the operator to carry out a prescribed duty or a
duty belonging to a prescribed class of duties mentioned in section 19(1) in
relation to —

        (a) the operation of the adult disability home mentioned in paragraph 2(1);
             or

        (b) the management of the residents of that adult disability home,

may continue to be so deployed on or after the appointed day —

        (c) until the expiry of 6 months after the appointed day; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
108  NO. 14 OF 2025

                          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

       (d) if, before the expiry of the 6‑month period after the appointed day, the
            operator has applied under section 7 for a licence to operate the adult
            disability home and the application has not been granted, refused or
            withdrawn on or before that date — for the period mentioned in
            sub‑paragraph (2).

(2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1)(d), the period is —

       (a) a period ending on the date that the operator’s application for a licence
            is finally refused by the Director‑General under section 8 or
            withdrawn; or

       (b) where the Director‑General grants a licence under section 8 to the
            operator —

                (i) 6 months after the licence is granted to the operator (now also
                     the licensee); or

               (ii) if, within the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i), an
                     application is made under section 20 for approval for the
                     licensee to deploy the individual to carry out a duty mentioned
                     in sub‑paragraph (1) — the period that ends on the earlier of the
                     following dates:

                      (A) the date on which the Director‑General grants the
                            approval under section 21;

                      (B) the date on which the application for approval is finally
                            refused by the Director‑General under section 21 or
                            withdrawn.

                           FOURTH SCHEDULE

                                                                                              Sections 2(1) and 68

               SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR
               HOMES FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PERSONS

                                           PART 1
                                        DEFINITION
 1. In this Schedule, “appointed day” means the date of commencement of
section 6.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 109

                          FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

                                           PART 2

               SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR
                     OPERATION OF EXISTING HOMES FOR
                    CHILDREN AND YOUNG PERSONS, ETC.

 1.—(1) Where immediately before the appointed day —

        (a) a person was operating a home for children and young persons under a
             licence granted under the Children and Young Persons Act 1993 as in
             force immediately before the appointed day (called in this Schedule the
             old CYP Act); and

        (b) the licence was not revoked or suspended under the old CYP Act,

the licence continues in force, so far as not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act, as if it were a licence granted under this Act to operate the home for children
and young persons for the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (2).

 (2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1), the period is —

        (a) a period ending on the earliest of the following dates:

                  (i) the date the licence is surrendered under section 14;

                 (ii) the date the licence is revoked or lapses under section 15;

                (iii) the date the licence is revoked under section 30;

                (iv) the date of expiry of 6 months after the appointed day; or

        (b) if none of the events mentioned in sub‑paragraph (a)(i), (ii) and (iii)
             occurs before the expiry of the 6‑month period after the appointed day
             and within that period, the person has applied under section 7 for a new
             licence to operate the home for children and young persons and the
             application has not been granted, refused or withdrawn on or before
             that date — the further period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (3).

 (3) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (2)(b), the further period is a period
ending on the earlier of the following dates:

        (a) the date on which the Director‑General grants a new licence under
             section 8 to the person;

        (b) the date that the application for a licence is finally refused by the
             Director‑General under section 8 or withdrawn.

 2.—(1) Where —

        (a) before the appointed day, an application is made to the
             Director‑General under section 63 of the old CYP Act for or to
             renew a licence to operate a home for children and young persons; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
110  NO. 14 OF 2025

                          FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

        (b) immediately before the appointed day, the application is pending
             before the Director‑General,

then on or after the appointed day, the application is treated as an application made
under section 7.

 (2) Any thing that has been started by the Director‑General in connection with
an application mentioned in sub‑paragraph (1) may be carried on and completed
by the Director‑General under the corresponding provisions in Part 2 of this Act.

 3. Where —

        (a) before the appointed day, the person mentioned in paragraph 1(1) of
             this Part (called in this Schedule the licensee) and the person to whom
             the licensee desires to transfer the licensee’s licence (called in this Part
             the intended transferee) had made a written application to the
             Director‑General under section 66 of the old CYP Act for the
             transfer of the licence to the intended transferee; and

        (b) immediately before the appointed day, the application is pending
             before the Director‑General,

then on or after the appointed day, the application is treated as an application made
by the licensee and the intended transferee to the Director‑General under
section 13 for the Director‑General’s consent to the transfer of the licence, and any
rights, benefits or privileges under the licence, to the intended transferee.

                                           PART 3

               SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR
          REGULATORY ACTION UNDER OLD CYP ACT AGAINST

                     OPERATORS OF EXISTING HOMES FOR
                    CHILDREN AND YOUNG PERSONS, ETC.

 1. Where —

        (a) before the date of commencement of section 63 (called in this Part the
             section 63 start date), the Director‑General had given a direction under
             section 69(1) of the old CYP Act to the licensee; and

        (b) as at the section 63 start date, the period of time within which the
             direction must have been complied with has not expired,

then on or after that date, the direction continues in force as if it had been given by
the Director‑General to the licensee under section 25.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 111

                          FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

 2. Where —

        (a) before the section 63 start date, the Director‑General had given a
             written notice under section 70(1) of the old CYP Act to require the
             licensee to furnish any information within a period specified in the
             written notice; and

        (b) as at the section 63 start date, the period specified in the written notice
             has not expired,

then on or after that date, the written notice is treated as a written notice given by
the Director‑General to the licensee under section 42 requiring the licensee to
provide that information within that period.

 3.—(1) Where —

        (a) before the section 63 start date, the Director‑General had given notice
             under section 73(2) of the old CYP Act to the licensee of the
             Director‑General’s intent to take any action under section 73 of that
             Act in respect of the licensee; and

        (b) the Director‑General has not made a decision in respect of the matter
             before that date,

the Director‑General may continue to make a decision in respect of the taking of
the action under section 73 of the old CYP Act as if section 63 had not been
enacted.

 (2) Subject to sub‑paragraph (3), where the Director‑General has taken or made
a decision to take an action against the licensee —

        (a) in accordance with section 73 of the old CYP Act before the section 63
             start date; or

        (b) in accordance with sub‑paragraph (1) on or after the section 63 start
             date,

then —

        (c) the ground on which the Director‑General has taken or made the
             decision to take an action against the licensee is treated as a ground on
             which an action may be taken against the licensee under section 30;
             and

        (d) the action continues in force as if it had been taken under that
             provision.

 (3) Where the Director‑General suspends the licence granted under the old CYP
Act to the licensee —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
112  NO. 14 OF 2025

                          FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

        (a) in accordance with section 73 of the old CYP Act before the section 63
             start date; or

        (b) in accordance with sub‑paragraph (1) on or after the section 63 start
             date,

then the suspension of the licence is treated as a suspension imposed under
section 30(2) for the period determined by the Director‑General.

 4. Where —

        (a) before the section 63 start date, the Minister had, under section 75 of
             the old CYP Act, ordered the licensee to discharge the children or
             young persons residing in a home for children and young persons or
             transfer those children or young persons to another home for children
             and young persons specified in the order; and

        (b) as at the section 63 start date, the licensee has not commenced or
             completed the discharge or transfer of the children or young persons,

then on or after that date, the order is treated as a direction given by the
Director‑General to the operator under section 26.

 5. Where, on or after the section 63 start date, the Director‑General discovers or
is informed of any breach or alleged breach of a licence condition of the licensee
that occurred or is alleged to have occurred before that date, the Director‑General
may commence an investigation and take regulatory action in respect of the breach
or alleged breach under this Act, and for this purpose the breach or alleged breach
is treated as a breach or an alleged breach of a licence condition by the licensee
under this Act.

 6. Where —

        (a) an appeal has been made to the Minister under section 76 of the old
             CYP Act before the section 63 start date; and

        (b) the appeal has not been dealt with or disposed of immediately before
             that date,

the appeal may be dealt with or disposed of under the old CYP Act as if this Act
had not been enacted.

 7. To avoid doubt, the provisions of this Part apply to a licensee who is granted a
new licence (as mentioned in paragraph 1(3)(a) of Part 2) as they apply to a
licensee who is deemed to be granted a licence under this Act (as mentioned in
paragraph 1(1) of Part 2).

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 113

                          FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

                                           PART 4

               SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR
          APPOINTMENT OF KEY APPOINTMENT HOLDERS AND
      PERSONS‑IN‑CHARGE AND DEPLOYMENT OF INDIVIDUALS

 1.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, every individual who, immediately before
the appointed day, was acting as a key appointment holder of the licensee, may
continue to act as such on or after the appointed day —

        (a) until the expiry of 6 months after the appointed day; or

        (b) if, before the expiry of the 6‑month period after the appointed day, the
             licensee has applied under section 7 for a new licence to operate the
             home for children and young persons and the application has not been
             granted, refused or withdrawn on or before that date — for the period
             mentioned in sub‑paragraph (2).

 (2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1)(b), the period is —

        (a) a period ending on the date that the licensee’s application for a new
             licence is finally refused by the Director‑General under section 8 or
             withdrawn; or

        (b) where the Director‑General grants a new licence under section 8 to the
             licensee —

                  (i) 6 months after the new licence is granted to the licensee; or

                 (ii) if, within the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i), an
                      application is made under section 20 for approval for the
                      licensee to appoint the individual as a key appointment holder
                      of the licensee, the period that ends on the earlier of the
                      following dates:

                       (A) the date on which the Director‑General grants the
                             approval under section 21;

                        (B) the date on which the application for approval is finally
                             refused by the Director‑General under section 21 or
                             withdrawn.

 2.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, an individual who, immediately before the
appointed day, was acting as the person‑in‑charge of the home for children and
young persons mentioned in paragraph 1(1) of Part 2, may continue to act as such
on or after the appointed day —

        (a) until the expiry of 6 months after the appointed day; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
114  NO. 14 OF 2025

                          FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

        (b) if, before the expiry of the 6‑month period after the appointed day, the
             licensee has applied under section 7 for a new licence to operate the
             home for children and young persons and the application has not been
             granted, refused or withdrawn on or before that date, for the period
             mentioned in sub‑paragraph (2).

 (2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1)(b), the period is —

        (a) a period ending on the date that the licensee’s application for a new
             licence is finally refused by the Director‑General under section 8 or
             withdrawn; or

        (b) where the Director‑General grants a new licence under section 8 to the
             licensee —

                  (i) 6 months after the new licence is granted to the licensee; or

                 (ii) if, within the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i), an
                      application is made under section 20 for approval for the
                      licensee to appoint the individual as the person‑in‑charge of the
                      home for children and young persons, the period that ends on
                      the earlier of the following dates:

                       (A) the date on which the Director‑General grants the
                             approval under section 21;

                        (B) the date on which the application for approval is finally
                             refused by the Director‑General under section 21 or
                             withdrawn.

 3.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, every individual who, immediately before
the appointed day, was deployed by the licensee to carry out a prescribed duty or a
duty belonging to a prescribed class of duties mentioned in section 19(1) in
relation to —

        (a) the operation of the home for children and young persons mentioned in
             paragraph 1(1) of Part 2; or

        (b) the management of the residents of that home for children and young
             persons,

may continue to be so deployed on or after the appointed day —

        (c) until the expiry of 6 months after the appointed day; or

        (d) if, before the expiry of the 6‑month period after the appointed day, the
             licensee has applied under section 7 for a new licence to operate the
             home for children and young persons and the application has not been

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 115

                        FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

            granted, refused or withdrawn on or before that date — for the period
            mentioned in sub‑paragraph (2).

(2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1)(d), the period is —

       (a) a period ending on the date that the licensee’s application for a new
            licence is finally refused by the Director‑General under section 8 or
            withdrawn; or

       (b) where the Director‑General grants a new licence under section 8 to the
            licensee —

                (i) 6 months after the new licence is granted to the licensee; or

               (ii) if, within the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i), an
                     application is made under section 20 for approval for the
                     licensee to deploy the individual to carry out a duty mentioned
                     in sub‑paragraph (1) — the period that ends on the earlier of the
                     following dates:

                      (A) the date on which the Director‑General grants the
                            approval under section 21;

                      (B) the date on which the application for approval is finally
                            refused by the Director‑General under section 21 or
                            withdrawn.

                             FIFTH SCHEDULE

                                                                                              Sections 2(1) and 69

               SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR
                                  SHELTERED HOMES
                                           PART 1
                                        DEFINITION

 1. In this Schedule, “appointed day” means the date of commencement of
section 6.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
116  NO. 14 OF 2025

                            FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

                                           PART 2

               SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR
                   EXISTING SHELTERED HOMES THAT ARE
                            ALSO HOMES FOR THE AGED

                Division 1 — Saving and transitional provisions for
                    operation of existing sheltered homes that are
                                  also homes for the aged

 1.—(1) Where immediately before the appointed day —

        (a) a person was operating a sheltered home as a home for the aged under a
             licence granted under the Homes for the Aged Act 1988 as in force
             immediately before the appointed day (called in this Schedule the
             repealed HFA Act); and

        (b) the licence was not revoked or suspended under the repealed HFA Act,

the licence continues in force, so far as not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act, as if it were a licence granted under this Act to operate the sheltered home for
the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (2).

 (2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1), the period is —

        (a) a period ending on the earliest of the following dates:

                  (i) the date the licence is surrendered under section 14;

                 (ii) the date the licence is revoked or lapses under section 15;

                (iii) the date the licence is revoked under section 30;

                (iv) the date of expiry of 6 months after the appointed day; or

        (b) if none of the events mentioned in sub‑paragraph (a)(i), (ii) and (iii)
             occurs before the expiry of the 6‑month period after the appointed day
             and within that period, the person has applied under section 7 for a new
             licence to operate the sheltered home and the application has not been
             granted, refused or withdrawn on or before that date — the further
             period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (3).

 (3) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (2)(b), the further period is a period
ending on the earlier of the following dates:

        (a) the date on which the Director‑General grants a new licence under
             section 8 to the person;

        (b) the date that the application for a licence is finally refused by the
             Director‑General under section 8 or withdrawn.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 117

                            FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

 2.—(1) Where —

        (a) before the appointed day, an application is made to the
             Director‑General under section 4 of the repealed HFA Act for or to
             renew a licence to operate a sheltered home as a home for the aged; and

        (b) immediately before the appointed day, the application is pending
             before the Director‑General,

then on or after the appointed day, the application is treated as an application made
under section 7.

 (2) Any thing that has been started by the Director‑General in connection with
an application mentioned in sub‑paragraph (1) may be carried on and completed
by the Director‑General under the corresponding provisions in Part 2 of this Act.

 3. Where —

        (a) before the appointed day, the person mentioned in paragraph 1(1) of
             this Part (called in this Schedule the licensee) and the person to whom
             the licensee desires to transfer the licensee’s licence (called in this Part
             the intended transferee) had made a written application to the
             Director‑General under section 10 of the repealed HFA Act for the
             transfer of the licence to the intended transferee; and

        (b) immediately before the appointed day, the application is pending
             before the Director‑General,

then on or after the appointed day, the application is treated as an application made
by the licensee and the intended transferee to the Director‑General under
section 13 for the Director‑General’s consent to the transfer of the licence, and any
rights, benefits or privileges under the licence, to the intended transferee.

                Division 2 — Saving and transitional provisions for
          regulatory action under repealed HFA Act against operators of

             existing sheltered homes that are also homes for the aged

 4.—(1) Where —

        (a) before the date of commencement of section 66 (called in this Division
             the section 66 start date), the Director‑General had given notice under
             section 6(2) of the repealed HFA Act to the licensee of the
             Director‑General’s intent to take any action under section 6 of that
             Act in respect of the licensee; and

        (b) the Director‑General has not made a decision in respect of the matter
             before that date,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
118  NO. 14 OF 2025

                            FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

the Director‑General may continue to make a decision in respect of the taking of
the action under section 6 of the repealed HFA Act as if section 66 had not been
enacted.

 (2) Subject to sub‑paragraph (3), where the Director‑General has taken or made
a decision to take an action against the licensee —

        (a) in accordance with section 6 of the repealed HFA Act before the
             section 66 start date; or

        (b) in accordance with sub‑paragraph (1) on or after the section 66 start
             date,

then —

        (c) the ground on which the Director‑General has taken or made the
             decision to take an action against the licensee is treated as a ground on
             which an action may be taken against the licensee under section 30;
             and

        (d) the action continues in force as if it had been taken under that
             provision.

 (3) Where the Director‑General suspends the licence granted under the repealed
HFA Act to the licensee —

        (a) in accordance with section 6 of the repealed HFA Act before the
             section 66 start date; or

        (b) in accordance with sub‑paragraph (1) on or after the section 66 start
             date,

then the suspension of the licence is treated as a suspension imposed under
section 30(2) for the period determined by the Director‑General.

 5. Where —

        (a) before the section 66 start date, the Director‑General had given a notice
             to the licensee under section 15 of the repealed HFA Act to direct the
             licensee to stop using, install or replace any apparatus, appliance,
             equipment or instrument in the sheltered home within a period
             specified in the notice; and

        (b) as at the section 66 start date, the period specified in the notice has not
             expired,

then on or after that date, the direction continues in force as if it had been given by
the Director‑General to the licensee under section 25.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 119

                            FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

 6. Where —

        (a) before the section 66 start date, the Director‑General required the
             licensee to provide any information under section 16(1) of the repealed
             HFA Act within a period specified by the Director‑General; and

        (b) as at the section 66 start date, the period specified by the
             Director‑General has not expired,

then on or after that date, the requirement is treated as a requirement under
section 42 for the licensee to provide that information within that period.

 7. Where, on or after the section 66 start date, the Director‑General discovers or
is informed of any breach or alleged breach of a licence condition of the licensee
that occurred or is alleged to have occurred before that date, the Director‑General
may commence an investigation and take regulatory action in respect of the breach
or alleged breach under this Act, and for this purpose the breach or alleged breach
is treated as a breach or an alleged breach of a licence condition by the licensee
under this Act.

 8. Where —

        (a) an appeal has been made to the Minister under section 7 of the repealed
             HFA Act before the section 66 start date; and

        (b) the appeal has not been dealt with or disposed of immediately before
             that date,

the appeal may be dealt with or disposed of under the repealed HFA Act as if
section 66 had not been enacted.

 9. To avoid doubt, the provisions of this Division apply to a licensee who is
granted a new licence (as mentioned in paragraph 1(3)(a) of this Part) as they
apply to a licensee who is deemed to be granted a licence under this Act (as
mentioned in paragraph 1(1) of this Part).

                Division 3 — Saving and transitional provisions for
       appointment of key appointment holders and persons‑in‑charge and
    deployment of individuals in relation to existing sheltered homes that are

                                  also homes for the aged

 10.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, every individual who, immediately before
the appointed day, was acting as a key appointment holder of the licensee, may
continue to act as such on or after the appointed day —

        (a) until the expiry of 6 months after the appointed day; or

        (b) if, before the expiry of the 6‑month period after the appointed day, the
             licensee has applied under section 7 for a new licence to operate the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
120  NO. 14 OF 2025

                            FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

             sheltered home and the application has not been granted, refused or
             withdrawn on or before that date — for the period mentioned in
             sub‑paragraph (2).

 (2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1)(b), the period is —

        (a) a period ending on the date that the licensee’s application for a new
             licence is finally refused by the Director‑General under section 8 or
             withdrawn; or

        (b) where the Director‑General grants a new licence under section 8 to the
             licensee —

                  (i) 6 months after the new licence is granted to the licensee; or

                 (ii) if, within the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i), an
                      application is made under section 20 for approval for the
                      licensee to appoint the individual as a key appointment holder
                      of the licensee — the period that ends on the earlier of the
                      following dates:

                       (A) the date on which the Director‑General grants the
                             approval under section 21;

                        (B) the date on which the application for approval is finally
                             refused by the Director‑General under section 21 or
                             withdrawn.

 11.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, an individual who, immediately before
the appointed day, was acting as the person‑in‑charge of the sheltered home
mentioned in paragraph 1(1) of this Part, may continue to act as such on or after
the appointed day —

        (a) until the expiry of 6 months after the appointed day; or

        (b) if, before the expiry of the 6‑month period after the appointed day, the
             licensee has applied under section 7 for a new licence to operate the
             sheltered home and the application has not been granted, refused or
             withdrawn on or before that date — for the period mentioned in
             sub‑paragraph (2).

 (2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1)(b), the period is —

        (a) a period ending on the date that the licensee’s application for a new
             licence is finally refused by the Director‑General under section 8 or
             withdrawn; or

        (b) where the Director‑General grants a new licence under section 8 to the
             licensee —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 121

                            FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

                  (i) 6 months after the new licence is granted to the licensee; or

                 (ii) if, within the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i), an
                      application is made under section 20 for approval for the
                      licensee to appoint the individual as the person‑in‑charge of the
                      sheltered home, the period that ends on the earlier of the
                      following dates:

                       (A) the date on which the Director‑General grants the
                             approval under section 21;

                        (B) the date on which the application for approval is finally
                             refused by the Director‑General under section 21 or
                             withdrawn.

 12.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, every individual who, immediately before
the appointed day, was deployed by the licensee to carry out a prescribed duty or a
duty belonging to a prescribed class of duties mentioned in section 19(1) in
relation to —

        (a) the operation of the sheltered home mentioned in paragraph 1(1) of this
             Part; or

        (b) the management of the residents of that sheltered home,

may continue to be so deployed on or after the appointed day —

        (c) until the expiry of 6 months after the appointed day; or

        (d) if, before the expiry of the 6‑month period after the appointed day, the
             licensee has applied under section 7 for a new licence to operate the
             sheltered home and the application has not been granted, refused or
             withdrawn on or before that date — for the period mentioned in
             sub‑paragraph (2).

 (2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1)(d), the period is —

        (a) a period ending on the date that the licensee’s application for a new
             licence is finally refused by the Director‑General under section 8 or
             withdrawn; or

        (b) where the Director‑General grants a new licence under section 8 to the
             licensee —

                  (i) 6 months after the new licence is granted to the licensee; or

                 (ii) if, within the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i), an
                      application is made under section 20 for approval for the
                      licensee to deploy the individual to carry out a duty mentioned

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
122  NO. 14 OF 2025

          FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

     in sub‑paragraph (1) — the period that ends on the earlier of the
     following dates:

      (A) the date on which the Director‑General grants the
           approval under section 21;

      (B) the date on which the application for approval is finally
           refused by the Director‑General under section 21 or
           withdrawn.

                                           PART 3

               SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR
                   EXISTING SHELTERED HOMES THAT ARE
                            NOT HOMES FOR THE AGED

 1.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, a person who —

        (a) immediately before the appointed day, was operating a sheltered home
             that is not also a home for the aged within the meaning of section 2 of
             the repealed HFA Act; and

        (b) on or after the appointed day, would be required under section 6 to be
             authorised to operate the sheltered home by a licence,

may continue operating the sheltered home on or after the appointed day —

        (c) until the expiry of 6 months after the appointed day; or

        (d) if, before the expiry of the 6‑month period after the appointed day, the
             person has applied under section 7 for a licence to operate the sheltered
             home and the application has not been granted, refused or withdrawn
             on or before that date — for the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (2).

 (2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1)(d), the period is a period ending on the
earlier of the following dates:

        (a) the date on which the Director‑General grants a licence under section 8
             to the person;

        (b) the date that the application for a licence is finally refused by the
             Director‑General under section 8 or withdrawn.

 2.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, every individual who, immediately before
the appointed day, was acting as a key appointment holder of the person
mentioned in paragraph 1(1) of this Part (called in this Schedule the operator),
may continue to act as such on or after the appointed day —

        (a) until the expiry of 6 months after the appointed day; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 123

                            FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

        (b) if, before the expiry of the 6‑month period after the appointed day, the
             operator has applied under section 7 for a licence to operate the
             sheltered home and the application has not been granted, refused or
             withdrawn on or before that date — for the period mentioned in
             sub‑paragraph (2).

 (2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1)(b), the period is —

        (a) a period ending on the date that the operator’s application for a licence
             is finally refused by the Director‑General under section 8 or
             withdrawn; or

        (b) where the Director‑General grants a licence under section 8 to the
             operator —

                  (i) 6 months after the licence is granted to the operator (now also
                      the licensee); or

                 (ii) if, within the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i), an
                      application is made under section 20 for approval for the
                      licensee to appoint the individual as a key appointment holder
                      of the licensee — the period that ends on the earlier of the
                      following dates:

                       (A) the date on which the Director‑General grants the
                             approval under section 21;

                        (B) the date on which the application for approval is finally
                             refused by the Director‑General under section 21 or
                             withdrawn.

 3.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, an individual who, immediately before the
appointed day, was acting as the person‑in‑charge of the sheltered home
mentioned in paragraph 1(1) of this Part, may continue to act as such on or
after the appointed day —

        (a) until the expiry of 6 months after the appointed day; or

        (b) if, before the expiry of the 6‑month period after the appointed day, the
             operator has applied under section 7 for a licence to operate the
             sheltered home and the application has not been granted, refused or
             withdrawn on or before that date — for the period mentioned in
             sub‑paragraph (2).

 (2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1)(b), the period is —

        (a) a period ending on the date that the operator’s application for a licence
             is finally refused by the Director‑General under section 8 or
             withdrawn; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
124  NO. 14 OF 2025

                            FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

        (b) where the Director‑General grants a licence under section 8 to the
             operator —

                  (i) 6 months after the licence is granted to the operator (now also
                      the licensee); or

                 (ii) if, within the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i), an
                      application is made under section 20 for approval for the
                      licensee to appoint the individual as the person‑in‑charge of the
                      sheltered home, the period that ends on the earlier of the
                      following dates:

                       (A) the date on which the Director‑General grants the
                             approval under section 21;

                        (B) the date on which the application for approval is finally
                             refused by the Director‑General under section 21 or
                             withdrawn.

 4.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, every individual who, immediately before
the appointed day, was deployed by the operator to carry out a prescribed duty or a
duty belonging to a prescribed class of duties mentioned in section 19(1) in
relation to —

        (a) the operation of the sheltered home mentioned in paragraph 1(1) of this
             Part; or

        (b) the management of the residents of that sheltered home,

may continue to be so deployed on or after the appointed day —

        (c) until the expiry of 6 months after the appointed day; or

        (d) if, before the expiry of the 6‑month period after the appointed day, the
             operator has applied under section 7 for a licence to operate the
             sheltered home and the application has not been granted, refused or
             withdrawn on or before that date — for the period mentioned in
             sub‑paragraph (2).

 (2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1)(d), the period is —

        (a) a period ending on the date that the operator’s application for a licence
             is finally refused by the Director‑General under section 8 or
             withdrawn; or

        (b) where the Director‑General grants a licence under section 8 to the
             operator —

                  (i) 6 months after the licence is granted to the operator (now also
                      the licensee); or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 125

          FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

(ii) if, within the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i), an
     application is made under section 20 for approval for the
     licensee to deploy the individual to carry out a duty mentioned
     in sub‑paragraph (1) — the period that ends on the earlier of the
     following dates:

      (A) the date on which the Director‑General grants the
            approval under section 21;

      (B) the date on which the application for approval is finally
            refused by the Director‑General under section 21 or
            withdrawn.

                            SIXTH SCHEDULE

                                                                                                           Section 70

               SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR
                                    WELFARE HOMES

 1. In this Schedule, “appointed day” means the date of commencement of
section 6.

 2.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, a person who —

        (a) immediately before the appointed day, was operating a welfare home;
             and

        (b) on or after the appointed day, would be required under section 6 to be
             authorised to operate the welfare home by a licence,

may continue operating the welfare home on or after the appointed day —

        (c) until the expiry of 6 months after the appointed day; or

        (d) if, before the expiry of the 6‑month period after the appointed day, the
             person has applied under section 7 for a licence to operate the welfare
             home and the application has not been granted, refused or withdrawn
             on or before that date — for the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (2).

 (2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1)(d), the period is a period ending on the
earlier of the following dates:

        (a) the date on which the Director‑General grants a licence under section 8
             to the person;

        (b) the date that the application for a licence is finally refused by the
             Director‑General under section 8 or withdrawn.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
126  NO. 14 OF 2025

                           SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

 3.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, every individual who, immediately before
the appointed day, was acting as a key appointment holder of the person
mentioned in paragraph 2(1) (called in this Schedule the operator), may continue
to act as such on or after the appointed day —

        (a) until the expiry of 6 months after the appointed day; or

        (b) if, before the expiry of the 6‑month period after the appointed day, the
             operator has applied under section 7 for a licence to operate the welfare
             home and the application has not been granted, refused or withdrawn
             on or before that date — for the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (2).

 (2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1)(b), the period is —

        (a) a period ending on the date that the operator’s application for a licence
             is finally refused by the Director‑General under section 8 or
             withdrawn; or

        (b) where the Director‑General grants a licence under section 8 to the
             operator —

                  (i) 6 months after the licence is granted to the operator (now also
                      the licensee); or

                 (ii) if, within the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i), an
                      application is made under section 20 for approval for the
                      licensee to appoint the individual as a key appointment holder
                      of the licensee — the period that ends on the earlier of the
                      following dates:

                       (A) the date on which the Director‑General grants the
                             approval under section 21;

                        (B) the date on which the application for approval is finally
                             refused by the Director‑General under section 21 or
                             withdrawn.

 4.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, an individual who, immediately before the
appointed day, was acting as the person‑in‑charge of the welfare home mentioned
in paragraph 2(1), may continue to act as such on or after the appointed day —

        (a) until the expiry of 6 months after the appointed day; or

        (b) if, before the expiry of the 6‑month period after the appointed day, the
             operator has applied under section 7 for a licence to operate the welfare
             home and the application has not been granted, refused or withdrawn
             on or before that date — for the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (2).

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
SOCIAL RESIDENTIAL HOMES                                 127

                           SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

 (2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1)(b), the period is —

        (a) a period ending on the date that the operator’s application for a licence
             is finally refused by the Director‑General under section 8 or
             withdrawn; or

        (b) where the Director‑General grants a licence under section 8 to the
             operator —

                  (i) 6 months after the licence is granted to the operator (now also
                      the licensee); or

                 (ii) if, within the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i), an
                      application is made under section 20 for approval for the
                      licensee to appoint the individual as the person‑in‑charge of the
                      welfare home, the period that ends on the earlier of the
                      following dates:

                       (A) the date on which the Director‑General grants the
                             approval under section 21;

                        (B) the date on which the application for approval is finally
                             refused by the Director‑General under section 21 or
                             withdrawn.

 5.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, every individual who, immediately before
the appointed day, was deployed by the operator to carry out a prescribed duty or a
duty belonging to a prescribed class of duties mentioned in section 19(1) in
relation to —

        (a) the operation of the welfare home mentioned in paragraph 2(1); or

        (b) the management of the residents of that welfare home,

may continue to be so deployed on or after the appointed day —

        (c) until the expiry of 6 months after the appointed day; or

        (d) if, before the expiry of the 6‑month period after the appointed day, the
             operator has applied under section 7 for a licence to operate the welfare
             home and the application has not been granted, refused or withdrawn
             on or before that date — for the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (2).

 (2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1)(d), the period is —

        (a) a period ending on the date that the operator’s application for a licence
             is finally refused by the Director‑General under section 8 or
             withdrawn; or

        (b) where the Director‑General grants a licence under section 8 to the
             operator —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
128  NO. 14 OF 2025

               SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

     (i) 6 months after the licence is granted to the operator (now also
          the licensee); or

     (ii) if, within the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i), an
          application is made under section 20 for approval for the
          licensee to deploy the individual to carry out a duty mentioned
          in sub‑paragraph (1) — the period that ends on the earlier of the
          following dates:

           (A) the date on which the Director‑General grants the
                 approval under section 21;

           (B) the date on which the application for approval is finally
                 refused by the Director‑General under section 21 or
                 withdrawn.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
