         STATE LANDS PROTECTION ACT 2022

         (No. 42 of 2022)

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
         General interpretation
     1.  Meaning of “State land”
     2.  Purposes of Act
     3.
     4.

                                        PART 2

                      IMPROPER USE OF STATE LAND

 5. Unauthorised activities
 6. Penalty for section 5 offence
 7. Defences
 8. Additional orders upon conviction
 9. Interim injunction before conviction
10. Information about unlawful depositing, etc., using vehicle
11. Prosecution does not affect and unaffected by other actions

                                        PART 3

               PROCEEDINGS TO STOP ENCROACHMENT

12. Encroachment notice
13. Authority may carry out encroachment notice
14. Recovery of expenses for executing encroachment notice
15. Objection procedure
16. Proceedings upon objection

                                        PART 4
                            RESUMPTION OF LAND

17. Forfeiture of abandoned land
18. Resumption procedure

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
2  NO. 42 OF 2022

Section
   19. Limitation of claim for compensation
   20. No adverse possession of State land

                                            PART 5

                                     ENFORCEMENT

                                    Division 1 — Powers

   21. Purpose for which enforcement powers are exercisable
   22. Power to enter and inspect
   23. Power to obtain documents and information
   24. Power to obtain disclosure of identity

                               Division 2 — Supplementary

   25. Disposal of seized or removed vehicles, etc.
   26. Obstructing authorised officers, etc.
   27. Composition of offences

                                            PART 6

                                    ADMINISTRATION

   28. Administration of Act
   29. Authorised officers
   30. Enforcement officers
   31. Authorisation for enforcement officers

                                            PART 7

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   32. Interface with other laws
   33. Supplementary provisions
   34. Offences by corporations
   35. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   36. Jurisdiction of courts
   37. Service of documents
   38. Regulations
   39. Presentation to Parliament

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
         STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    3

         PART 8

         AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS AND
                     FINAL PROVISIONS

Section  Amendment of Land Titles Act 1993
         Amendment of Parks and Trees Act 2005
   40.   Amendment of Sewerage and Drainage Act 1999
   41.   Amendment of Singapore Land Authority Act 2001
   42.   Amendment of Street Works Act 1995
   43.   Repeal
   44.   Saving and transitional provisions
   45.
   46.

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
4  NO. 42 OF 2022

An Act to provide for the protection of State lands generally, to repeal
  the State Lands Encroachments Act 1883 and to make
  consequential and related amendments to certain other Acts.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    5

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the State Lands Protection Act 2022 and comes into
operation on a date that the Minister appoints by notification in the
Gazette.

General interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “animal” means —

              (a) any fish, mollusc, crustacea or other form of aquatic
                   life;

              (b) any reptile;

              (c) any bird;

              (d) any livestock or domestic fowl; or

              (e) any mammal (other than man);

      “authorised officer”, for any provision of this Act, means an
         individual who is appointed as an authorised officer under
         section 29 for the purposes of that provision;

      “Authority” means the Singapore Land Authority established
         under the Singapore Land Authority Act 2001;

      “Collector” has the meaning given by the Land Revenue
         Collection Act 1940;

      “Commissioner of Lands” means the Commissioner of Lands
         appointed under section 6(1) of the State Lands Act 1920;

      “compliance period”, for an encroachment notice —

              (a) means the period specified in the encroachment
                   notice within which the person given the
                   encroachment notice must comply with it; and

              (b) includes any extension of that period under
                   section 33, if granted;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
6  NO. 42 OF 2022

   “corporation” means any body corporate formed or incorporated
      or existing in or outside Singapore and includes any foreign
      company within the meaning of the Companies Act 1967;

   “damage” includes to contaminate;

   “director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
      Companies Act 1967;

   “encroachment notice” means a notice given under section 12;

   “enforcement officer” means an individual who is appointed
      under section 30 as an enforcement officer;

   “erect”, in relation to a structure, includes any work carried out
      in constructing, installing, creating, replacing, maintaining,
      renewing or restoring a structure;

   “forest product” means the product of trees and other vegetation
      (such as timber and fruits) that are of economic value;

   “goods” means movable property of any kind, and includes —

           (a) any sand, soil, rocks, building material or building
                component;

           (b) any device, equipment or machinery or any part of
                any device, equipment or machinery;

           (c) any live animal or insect; and

           (d) any packaging, freight container, pallet or like article
                of transport,

      but does not include choses in action;

   “holding yard” means a place used by or under the management
      or control of the Authority for the storage of removed
      material;

   “land” includes —

           (a) any structure or premises in, under or over the land;
                and

           (b) any foreshore;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    7

“lawful authority” means with the permission of the Authority,
   or as required or allowed by or under any written law;

“limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by the
   Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

“objection” means an objection given under section 15 to an
   encroachment notice;

“objection period”, for an encroachment notice —

        (a) means the period specified in the encroachment
             notice within which the person given the
             encroachment notice may give an objection if the
             person objects to and does not wish to comply with
             the encroachment notice; and

        (b) includes any extension of that period under
             section 33, if granted;

“offence under this Act” includes an offence under any
   subsidiary legislation made under this Act;

“park”, in relation to a vehicle or vessel, means as follows:

        (a) to bring the vehicle to a stationary position and cause
             it to wait for any purpose;

        (b) to moor the vessel and cause it to be secured in a
             stationary position on the water;

“partner”, in relation to a limited partnership, includes a limited
   partner in the limited partnership;

“public authority” means a body established by or under any
   public Act to perform a public function;

“removed material” means any of the following that is moved or
   removed by an authorised officer under section 13(2)(a)
   or (b):

        (a) any vehicle or vessel or a part thereof;

        (b) any animal (dead or alive);

        (c) any waste, goods, structure or other thing;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
8  NO. 42 OF 2022

   “repealed Act” means the State Lands Encroachments Act 1883
      repealed by this Act;

   “State land” has the meaning given by section 3;

   “structure” includes any of the following:

           (a) a building, including a building constructed of
                short‑lived materials;

           (b) a post, pile, stake, pipe, chain, wire or any other
                similar thing fixed to the ground;

           (c) a dock, wharf or jetty, or a floating structure that is or
                is to be permanently moored;

           (d) a tunnel, foundation or pit, or an underpass or
                excavation works;

           (e) a drain, canal, culvert or lined water channel;

           (f) a seawall, revetment, groyne, weir or dyke;

           (g) a billboard, signboard, hoarding, fence, partition,
                sun‑shading device or canopy, an awning or
                advertising structure, or a platform, safety netting
                or other temporary structure;

           (h) a roof, cladding, curtain wall, bracket, cornice or
                other exterior feature of a building that is installed on,
                forms part of or projects outwards from a building;

           (i) a road or path;

           (j) a flyover, overpass, viaduct or bridge, whether or not
                only for pedestrians or vehicles;

           (k) any works for the reclamation of land that are or are
                liable to be, or would, but for the reclamation, be or
                be liable to be, covered wholly or partly by water;

   “substance”, in relation to State land, includes earth, stone, clay,
      gravel, sand, shell, minerals, mineral oil, natural gas and
      other materials found on, in or forming part of the State land;

   “unincorporated association” means a society or body
      unincorporate which, under any written law, may sue or be

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    9

         sued, or hold property, in the name of an officer of the society
         or body duly appointed for that purpose;

      “vehicle” means any vehicle (whether mechanically propelled
         or otherwise) that is designed to transport goods, people or
         goods and people, on land;

      “vessel” means a boat, launch or floating craft used in
         navigation by water, however propelled or moved;

      “waste” means any of the following, whether or not recyclable:

              (a) any garbage, rubbish or refuse;

              (b) any construction debris, demolition debris or
                   renovation debris;

              (c) any solid or liquid waste matter (whether domestic or
                   commercial), and includes ashes, any dead animal,
                   landscaping material, and garden cuttings or
                   clippings or other plant matter;

              (d) any other material, substance or thing (whether or not
                   of a similar kind) deposited at a place if its size,
                   shape, nature or volume adversely affects the proper
                   use of the place.

Meaning of “State land”

 3.—(1) Subject to subsections (2), (3) and (4), in this Act, State land
means land in Singapore —

       (a) that is unalienated land;

       (b) that vests in the Government or becomes State land
            because of the operation of this Act, or a declaration or
            other instrument under another Act, and remains
            unalienated land;

       (c) that is surrendered to the Government by the owner of the
            land or holder of a lease for that land and remains
            unalienated land; or

       (d) that is the subject of a notification in the Gazette made
            under the provisions of section 3 or 5 of the Land

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
10  NO. 42 OF 2022

            Acquisition Act 1966 unless the notification is cancelled
            before possession of the land is taken by a Collector under
            that Act.

 (2) Land ceases to be State land if —

       (a) the land is sold, or lawfully contracted to be sold, and the
            purchase price or other consideration (if any) for the sale
            has been received by the Government (or a person on
            behalf of the Government), regardless of whether —

               (i) the purchaser is recorded in the register of titles as
                   the registered proprietor of the land or by the creation
                   of one or more folios for that land; or

              (ii) one or more folios for that land is created under the
                   Land Titles Act 1993; or

       (b) the land is lawfully contracted to be sold by award of
            tender and the deposit has been received by the
            Government or a person on behalf of the Government.

 (3) However, land to which subsection (2)(b) applies becomes State
land again if the purchaser fails to complete the purchase.

 (4) None of the following parcels of land is treated as State land for
the purposes of this Act:

       (a) unalienated land that is set aside under the Parks and Trees
            Act 2005 as a national park, nature reserve or public park,
            or as green verges or turfed open spaces to be managed and
            maintained by the National Parks Board;

       (b) unalienated land that is a drainage reserve within the
            meaning of the Sewerage, Drainage and Coastal Protection
            Act 1999;

                                                                                 [Act 8 of 2026 wef 29/05/2026]

       (c) unalienated land that is within the railway area delineated
            in plans and maps prepared, amended or replaced under
            section 5(1) or (5) of the Cross‑Border Railways Act 2018;

       (d) unalienated land that is railway premises or a railway
            within the meaning of the Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    11

       (e) a public street within the meaning of the Street Works
            Act 1995;

        (f) a street reserve that is vested in the Government under
            section 14 of the Street Works Act 1995;

       (g) a backlane (within the meaning of the Street Works
            Act 1995) vested in the Government.

 (5) In this section, “unalienated land” means land in Singapore in
respect of which no grant (whether in fee simple or in perpetuity) or
lease, and no licence to occupy, is granted or issued, under any of the
following:

       (a) the Foreshores Act 1920;

       (b) the State Lands Act 1920;

       (c) the State Lands Ordinance 1886;

       (d) the Crown Lands Ordinance 1886.

Purposes of Act

 4. The purposes of this Act are to ensure that State land is protected
from damage and improper use so as —

       (a) to facilitate the public use and enjoyment of appropriate
            State land;

       (b) to facilitate infrastructure and economic development on
            State land; and

       (c) to support the management of State land in a way that both
            the land and its resources are sustained in perpetuity.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
12  NO. 42 OF 2022

                                    PART 2

                  IMPROPER USE OF STATE LAND

Unauthorised activities

 5.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person, without lawful
authority, intentionally does any of the following:

       (a) occupy or live on State land;

       (b) erect a structure on, under or over State land;

       (c) clear, dig up or cultivate State land;

       (d) interfere with any substance on, in or forming part of State
            land;

       (e) deposit or leave on State land any waste, goods or any
            other thing (whether or not of a similar kind);

        (f) park or leave any vehicle or vessel, or part of a vehicle or
            vessel, on State land;

       (g) damage or enclose State land;

       (h) cut, strip, obtain, remove, destroy or damage any
            vegetation on State land;

        (i) dig for, extract, obtain, remove, destroy or damage any
            forest product from State land;

        (j) abandon or release any animal (for which the person is
            responsible) onto State land;

       (k) cause or allow any activity mentioned in paragraph (a), (b),
            (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i) or (j) to be carried out.

 (2) An offence under this section is an arrestable offence.

 (3) In proceedings against an accused for an offence under this
section, it is not necessary for the prosecution to prove that the
accused knew or had reason to believe that the land where the offence
was committed is State land.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (1)(d), “interfere”, in relation to a
substance on, in or forming part of State land, includes remove, cut,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    13

dig up, quarry, extract, disturb, displace, or stack and heap, the
substance.

Penalty for section 5 offence

 6.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a person who is guilty of an
offence under section 5(1) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $500 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

 (2) Where a person commits an offence under section 5(1)(e) —

       (a) by depositing or leaving, involving the use of a motor
            vehicle or vessel, any waste, goods or any other thing
            (whether or not of a similar kind) on State land without
            lawful authority; or

       (b) by causing or allowing an activity mentioned in
            paragraph (a) without lawful authority,

and the person is a repeat offender, the person shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (3) In this section —

      “motor vehicle” means a vehicle that —

              (a) is propelled wholly or partly by a motor, or by any
                   means other than human or animal power;

              (b) has 4 or more wheels; and

              (c) is used or intended to be used on any road,

         and includes such a motor vehicle that is constructed to drive
         itself;

      “repeat offender”, in relation to any offence under
         section 5(1)(e), means a person —

              (a) who is convicted, or found guilty, of such an offence
                   committed involving the use of a motor vehicle or
                   vessel (called the current offence); and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
14  NO. 42 OF 2022

              (b) who has, within the period of 5 years immediately
                   before the date on which the person is convicted or
                   found guilty of the current offence, been —

                     (i) convicted or found guilty of the same offence
                          committed involving the use of a motor vehicle
                          or vessel (whether or not a continuing offence)
                          on at least one other earlier occasion; or

                     (ii) convicted or found guilty (whether before, on
                          or after the date of commencement of this
                          section) on at least one other earlier occasion of
                          an offence under section 7(1)(b) of the repealed
                          Act committed involving the use of a motor
                          vehicle or vessel.

Defences

 7.—(1) In proceedings against an accused for an offence under
section 5, it is a defence to the charge for the accused to prove, on a
balance of probabilities, that the accused did not know, and could not
reasonably have been expected to know, that the land concerned was
State land.

 (2) In addition, in proceedings against an accused for an offence
under section 5 for erecting any structure in any subterranean space
that is State land, it is a defence for the person charged to prove, on a
balance of probabilities, that —

       (a) the person, or the company or association or body of
            persons of which the person is a director, manager, partner,
            secretary or other officer, is entitled to exercise rights
            under the easement of support implied under section 10 of
            the State Lands Act 1920;

       (b) the erecting of the structure is in accordance with
            section 10 of the State Lands Act 1920; and

       (c) the person, or the company or association or body of
            persons of which the person is a director, manager, partner,
            secretary or other officer, is authorised by or under the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    15

            written law for the time being in force relating to planning
            and use of land to erect the structure.

Additional orders upon conviction

 8.—(1) Without limiting section 359 of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, the court before which any person is convicted or found
guilty of an offence under section 5 in relation to any State land may
order that person to pay, in addition to any fine imposed for the
offence, to the Authority as agent of the Government —

       (a) the value of any substance removed from the State land;

       (b) the value of any forest products taken from the State land
            or damaged or destroyed;

       (c) the costs and expenses incurred by the Authority or an
            authorised officer in connection with —

               (i) prevention, control, abatement or mitigation of any
                   damage to the State land caused by the commission
                   of the offence; or

              (ii) making good any resulting damage to the State land;

       (d) compensation for any loss or damage suffered by the
            Government by reason of the commission of the offence;
            or

       (e) the costs and expenses incurred by an electricity licensee, a
            gas licensee or the Public Utilities Board in complying
            with an order of court under subsection (4)(a), (b) or (c), as
            applicable.

 (2) Any sum ordered to be paid under subsection (1) may be
recovered in the manner provided for the recovery of fines by the
Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

 (3) In addition to subsection (1), the court before which any person
is convicted or found guilty of an offence under section 5 in relation
to any State land may order that person to take such steps, and within
such time, as is so specified in order —

       (a) to prevent, control, abate or mitigate any damage to the
            State land caused by the commission of the offence;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
16  NO. 42 OF 2022

       (b) to make good any resulting damage to the State land;

       (c) to prevent the continuance or recurrence of the offence,
            such as —

               (i) to leave the State land which is the subject of the
                   offence;

              (ii) to demolish or remove any structure erected on,
                   under or over the State land, and to dispose of the
                   structure and any resulting debris from the
                   demolition; or

             (iii) to remove from the State land any vehicle or vessel
                   (or part thereof), animal (dead or alive), waste, goods
                   or other thing (whether or not of a similar kind); or

       (d) to do a combination of anything in paragraphs (a), (b)
            and (c).

 (4) In addition to subsections (1) and (3), the court before which
any person is convicted or found guilty of an offence under section 5
with respect to any State land may order all or any as follows despite
any agreement made for the supply of electricity, gas or water:

       (a) order an electricity licensee to discontinue the supply of
            electricity to that person with respect to the State land;

       (b) order a gas licensee to disconnect or divert the supply of
            gas to that person with respect to the State land;

       (c) order the Public Utilities Board to stop, divert or turn off
            the supply of water by severing or disconnecting any pipe
            or other work through which water is supplied to that
            person with respect to the State land.

 (5) No criminal or civil liability shall be incurred by —

       (a) an electricity licensee, a gas licensee or the Public Utilities
            Board; or

       (b) any person acting on behalf of the electricity licensee, gas
            licensee or Public Utilities Board,

in respect of anything done or omitted to be done with reasonable care
and in good faith in the discharge or purported discharge of the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    17

obligations of the electricity licensee, gas licensee or Public Utilities
Board (as the case may be) under an order of the court mentioned in
subsection (4)(a), (b) or (c).

 (6) In this section —

      “electricity licensee” has the meaning given by the Electricity
         Act 2001;

      “gas licensee” has the meaning given by the Gas Act 2001.

Interim injunction before conviction

 9.—(1) Where the Commissioner of Lands has reasonable cause to
believe —

       (a) that a person is committing an offence under section 5 on
            any State land; and

       (b) that it is necessary or expedient for an interim injunction
            under this section to be made,

the Commissioner of Lands may apply to a court for an interim
injunction, whether or not the Commissioner of Lands has exercised
any of his or her other powers under Part 3.

 (2) On an application under subsection (1), the court may make an
interim injunction against a person who is alleged to be committing or
have committed an offence under section 5 on any State land, if the
court is satisfied, on a balance of probabilities —

       (a) that the person is committing or has committed an offence
            under section 5 on the State land;

       (b) that due to the commission of that offence —

               (i) irreparable damage or harm is or is being, or is likely
                   to be, caused to the State land, or other land adjacent
                   to that State land;

              (ii) the State land is in such a condition as to collapse or
                   partially collapse, or to cause a collapse or partial
                   collapse of other land adjacent to that State land; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
18  NO. 42 OF 2022

             (iii) the State land is otherwise dangerous or likely to be
                   otherwise dangerous in any other way to persons on
                   or near the State land;

       (c) that it is impracticable in the circumstances of the
            particular case for proceedings under Part 3 to
            effectively prevent, alleviate or minimise the damage,
            collapse or danger mentioned in paragraph (b); and

       (d) that it is necessary or expedient for an interim injunction
            under this section to be made to prevent, alleviate or
            minimise the damage, collapse or danger mentioned in
            paragraph (b), before criminal proceedings against the
            person conclude.

 (3) An interim injunction under this section may be made whether
or not it appears to the court that the person intends to continue to
commit the offence under section 5.

 (4) An interim injunction may order the person concerned to do,
within the time specified in the injunction, all or any of the following
as is specified in that injunction, pending criminal proceedings:

       (a) to leave the State land;

       (b) to demolish or remove any structure erected on, under or
            over the State land, and to dispose of the structure and any
            resulting debris from the demolition;

       (c) to remove from the State land any vehicle or vessel (or part
            thereof), animal (dead or alive), waste or goods or any
            other thing, whether or not of a similar kind;

       (d) to stop removing or to not remove from the State land, any
            goods, substances or forest products or any other thing,
            whether or not of a similar kind.

 (5) Where the Commissioner of Lands makes an application to a
court for the grant of an interim injunction under this section, the
court may not require the Authority, as a condition of granting the
interim injunction, to give any undertaking as to damages.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    19

Information about unlawful depositing, etc., using vehicle

 10.—(1) Where the driver or a passenger of a motor vehicle is
alleged or suspected to be guilty of an offence under
section 5(1)(e) —

       (a) the owner of the motor vehicle must give any information
            that the owner may be required to give by an authorised
            officer or enforcement officer as to the identity and address
            of the person who, at or about the time of the alleged
            offence, was the driver or a passenger of the motor vehicle;
            and

       (b) any other person who was or should have been in charge or
            in control of the motor vehicle at or about the time of the
            alleged offence must, if so required by an authorised
            officer or enforcement officer, give any information which
            it is in that other person’s power to give and which may
            lead to the identification of the driver or passengers of the
            motor vehicle at or about that time.

 (2) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
subsection (1) within 14 days after the date on which the information
was required from the person, shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

 (3) A person is not excused from giving any information required of
the person under subsection (1) on the ground that the disclosure of
the information might tend to incriminate the person.

 (4) In subsection (1) —

       (a) a reference to a motor vehicle includes a reference to a
            vessel; and

       (b) a reference to a driver of a motor vehicle includes a
            reference to a pilot of a vessel.

Prosecution does not affect and unaffected by other actions

 11. The prosecution of a person for an offence under section 5 does
not affect, and is unaffected by, any other proceeding or action taken
under any other Part of this Act in relation to the conduct giving rise
to the offence.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
20  NO. 42 OF 2022

                                    PART 3

           PROCEEDINGS TO STOP ENCROACHMENT

Encroachment notice

 12.—(1) If an authorised officer has reasonable cause to believe
that a person is committing an offence under section 5 on any State
land, the authorised officer may give the person an encroachment
notice relating to the State land.

 (2) An encroachment notice relating to any State land may direct
the person to whom it is given, to do all or any of the following as is
specified in the notice:

       (a) to leave the State land;

       (b) to demolish or remove any structure erected on, under or
            over the State land, and to dispose of the structure and any
            resulting debris from the demolition;

       (c) to remove from the State land, any vehicle or vessel (or
            part thereof), any animal (dead or alive), waste or goods, or
            any other thing, whether or not of a similar kind;

       (d) to stop removing or to not remove from the State land, any
            goods, substances or forest products or any other thing,
            whether or not of a similar kind;

       (e) to do, or to refrain from doing, any works that are specified
            in the encroachment notice in order —

               (i) to rectify any damage to the State land as a result of;
                   or

              (ii) to restore the State land to its state before,

       (e) any unlawful activity mentioned in section 5 done by the
            person, or caused or allowed by the person.

 (3) An encroachment notice relating to any State land must state —

       (a) the period —

               (i) within which the person must comply with the
                   encroachment notice (called in this Act the
                   compliance period); and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    21

              (ii) within which the person may give an objection if the
                   person objects to and does not wish to comply with
                   the encroachment notice (called in this Act the
                   objection period);

       (b) that any thing or works required to be done must be carried
            out with due diligence to the satisfaction of the
            Commissioner of Lands; and

       (c) that failure to comply with the encroachment notice is an
            offence and may result in proceedings under this Act being
            taken against the person unless an objection is given in
            accordance with this Act.

 (4) The objection period for an encroachment notice must not be
longer than the compliance period for that encroachment notice.

 (5) A person who —

       (a) is given an encroachment notice; and

       (b) does not give an objection within the objection period for
            the encroachment notice,

must take, so far as is reasonably practicable and at the person’s cost,
such steps as are necessary to comply with the encroachment notice
within the compliance period for that notice.

 (6) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
subsection (5) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

Authority may carry out encroachment notice

 13.—(1) Subject to section 15, where a person who is required by
section 12(5) to comply with an encroachment notice relating to any
State land, fails to do so within the compliance period and does not
give the Authority an objection to that encroachment notice within
the objection period, the Authority may do all or any of the following:

       (a) carry out, or cause to be carried out, all or any thing or
            work specified in the encroachment notice;

       (b) direct the person to deposit (within a period that the
            Authority may specify, being at least 7 days after the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
22  NO. 42 OF 2022

            direction is given) an amount with the Authority that the
            Authority considers necessary for the purpose of
            paragraph (a).

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), an authorised officer may, with
any assistance that the officer considers necessary for the purpose of
exercising a power under subsection (1)(a) —

       (a) demolish or remove any structure erected on, under or over
            the State land, and then move or remove from the State
            land the structure to store at a holding yard and dispose of
            the resulting debris from the demolition;

       (b) move or remove from the State land any vehicle or vessel
            (or part thereof), any animal (dead or alive), waste or goods
            or any other thing (whether or not of a similar kind) by any
            reasonable means to store at a holding yard, including by
            towing the vehicle, vessel, goods or thing to a holding
            yard;

       (c) use reasonable force, including cutting or breaking open
            any lock, seal, fastener or other device on or connected to
            any vehicle or vessel (or part thereof), any animal (dead or
            alive), waste, goods, structure or other thing (whether or
            not of a similar kind) mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b); or

       (d) carry out any works specified in the notice in order to
            rectify any damage to or to otherwise restore the State land
            concerned.

 (3) The power conferred on an authorised officer under
subsection (2)(b) may be exercised whether or not the owner,
driver, rider or person in charge of the removed material is present at
the time of its removal.

 (4) When any removed material is moved or removed by an
authorised officer under subsection (2)(a) or (b), the officer
concerned must as soon as practicable give notice of the moving or
removal and the grounds of doing so to the owner of that removed
material, if known, except that the notice is not required to be given
where the moving or removal is made in the presence of the owner or
the owner’s agent.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    23

 (5) Where it appears to the Commissioner of Lands that any
removed material —

       (a) is perishable;

       (b) may rapidly depreciate in value; or

       (c) is of such a nature or in such condition that it would be
            dangerous, not reasonably practicable or unduly costly for
            the Authority to retain custody of the removed material,

the Commissioner of Lands may, instead of storing the removed
material at a holding yard, cause it —

       (d) to be sold (by public auction or otherwise) at once and the
            proceeds of sale to be paid into the Consolidated Fund; or

       (e) to be destroyed or otherwise disposed of at such time and in
            such manner as the Commissioner of Lands thinks fit.

 (6) If a person who appears, to the satisfaction of the Commissioner
of Lands, to be the owner of any removed material moved or removed
under subsection (1) and not to be a person in default with complying
with the encroachment notice concerned, claims —

       (a) after that removed material has been sold, destroyed or
            disposed of under subsection (5); but

       (b) before the end of one year starting the date the removed
            material was moved or removed under subsection (1),

the Authority may compensate, out of the funds of the Authority, the
person for the loss of the removed material, less reasonable costs and
expenses incurred by the Authority in storing and selling, destroying
or disposing of the removed material.

Recovery of expenses for executing encroachment notice

 14.—(1) All expenses reasonably incurred by the Authority in
relation to the execution of any thing or work under section 13(1) in
respect of State land and section 13(2) (including storing of any
removed material) are recoverable from the person in default starting
the date on which the thing or work is completed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
24  NO. 42 OF 2022

 (2) The Commissioner of Lands —

       (a) may certify the expenses due under this section and the
            names of the persons liable for the expenses; and

       (b) may apportion the expenses among the persons named in
            the certificate.

 (3) A copy of the certificate mentioned in subsection (2) must be
given to every person named in the certificate.

 (4) If any sum or any part of the sum due to the Authority under this
section remains unpaid at the end of one month starting the date the
certificate under subsection (3) is given, or any further period that the
Authority may allow, the sum or part is deemed to be arrears.

 (5) A certificate purporting to be made under subsection (2) by the
Commissioner of Lands is prima facie evidence of the facts certified
in the certificate and that the Commissioner of Lands had made the
certificate.

 (6) The Authority must refund the deposit or any part of the deposit,
after deducting any costs and expenses reasonably incurred by the
Authority, if the thing or work required to be executed by the
encroachment notice has been executed to the satisfaction of the
Commissioner of Lands.

Objection procedure

 15.—(1) A person to whom an encroachment notice is given in
respect of any State land may, within the objection period for the
encroachment notice, give the Authority an objection in writing
(called in this Act an objection) objecting to the encroachment notice.

 (2) An objection must —

       (a) be signed by the person who makes it; and

       (b) state the basis for the person’s authority to do the
            following, whichever is applicable:

               (i) to occupy or live on the State land in question;

              (ii) to erect any structure on, under or over the State land;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    25

             (iii) to carry on, or cause or allow, any activity mentioned
                   in section 5(1)(c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i) or (j);

             (iv) to claim an interest in any structure on, under or over
                   the State land.

Proceedings upon objection

 16.—(1) On receiving an objection to an encroachment notice
relating to State land, an authorised officer may make a complaint to a
Magistrate under section 151 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

 (2) Sections 153, 154 and 156 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010
apply to proceedings regarding a complaint mentioned in
subsection (1) subject to this Act.

 (3) Where any proceedings regarding a complaint mentioned in
subsection (1) have started and any party to the proceedings claims
that that party has title to the State land in question, that party may, at
any time in those proceedings, apply to the Magistrate to stay the
proceedings on the ground that the party intends to commence
proceedings in the General Division of the High Court for a
determination of that party’s claim.

 (4) Upon an application under subsection (3), the Magistrate must,
if he or she is satisfied that the claim is genuine, make an order, upon
any terms that he or she thinks fit, staying the proceedings regarding a
complaint mentioned in subsection (1), pending the determination of
the claim by the General Division of the High Court.

                                    PART 4
                        RESUMPTION OF LAND
Forfeiture of abandoned land
 17. Subject to section 18, any land that has been abandoned for
3 years or more by —
       (a) the person to whom the land was alienated or demised by
            or on behalf of the State; or
       (b) any person claiming title through a person in paragraph (a),

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
26  NO. 42 OF 2022

shall be forfeited to the State even though some person may be found
in occupation of the land or of any part of that land.

Resumption procedure

 18.—(1) A Collector may, with the approval of the Minister,
declare in writing that any land that has been abandoned for 3 years or
more by —

       (a) the person to whom the land was alienated or demised by
            or on behalf of the State; or

       (b) any person claiming title through a person in paragraph (a),

is liable to forfeiture to the State.

 (2) Once a declaration is made under subsection (1) with respect to
any land, the Collector must cause to be published a notice of the
making of the declaration (called in this section a resumption notice)
without delay in the Gazette.

 (3) Failure to publish a resumption notice in respect of any
declaration under subsection (1) does not invalidate the declaration.

 (4) If, at the end of 3 months after the day on which a resumption
notice is published in accordance with subsection (2) with respect to
any land —

       (a) there is no person who appears, to the satisfaction of the
            Collector, to have a claim to the land or to any interest in
            the land; or

       (b) there is such a person but that person has not exercised the
            person’s right to recover possession of that land by a claim,

that land is deemed forfeited to the State immediately after the end of
that period of 3 months; and any grant or lease affecting, and any deed
purporting to deal with, the land or any part of the land that is
forfeited to the State under this section is void insofar as it relates to
that land or part thereof.

 (5) The Collector must cause to be published a notice that the land
is forfeited to the State under subsection (4) —

       (a) in the Gazette; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    27

       (b) in any other manner that will secure adequate publicity for
            the fact of forfeiture of that land.

Limitation of claim for compensation

 19. If, within a period of 6 years after the date of forfeiture of any
land under section 18, any person establishes a claim to the land or to
any interest in the land to the satisfaction of the Authority, that person
is entitled to receive out of the Consolidated Fund any sum that the
Minister may direct, which sum cannot exceed the appraised value of
that land as at the date the notice mentioned in section 18(5)(a)
concerning the land was published.

No adverse possession of State land

 20. No State land shall be acquired by possession or unlawful
occupation, and the provisions of the Limitation Act 1959 shall not
apply to any action brought by the Government for the recovery of
State land.

                                    PART 5

                              ENFORCEMENT

                            Division 1 — Powers

Purpose for which enforcement powers are exercisable

 21.—(1) Subject to Part 6, an authorised officer and an enforcement
officer may exercise the powers set out in this Part for any of the
following purposes:

       (a) to determine compliance with this Act, including
            ascertaining whether an offence under this Act has been
            committed, is being committed or is about to be
            committed;

       (b) to determine whether information provided to the
            Authority or an authorised officer or enforcement officer
            under this Act is correct;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
28  NO. 42 OF 2022

       (c) to ascertain whether any of the powers conferred by or
            under this Act on the Authority should or may be
            exercised.

 (2) To avoid doubt, nothing in this Part limits section 31 of the
Singapore Land Authority Act 2001 with respect to an offence under
this Act.

Power to enter and inspect

 22.—(1) An authorised officer or enforcement officer may, without
warrant, enter, at all reasonable times, and remain on State land, or
any other land in or from which the officer has reasonable grounds to
suspect that an offence under this Act may be committed, and do all
or any of the following:

       (a) to examine any thing or observe any activity conducted in
            or on the land in question without involving any search of
            any premises, thing or person, or any seizure (without
            warrant) of any thing, in or on that land;

       (b) to make a sketch, photograph or still or moving image, or
            an audio or a video recording, of the land in question and
            any thing in or on that land;

       (c) to make measurements of the land in question and any
            thing in or on that land;

       (d) to take samples of water, soil, vegetation or other similar
            substances from the land in question and any thing in or on
            that land for the purposes of analysis;

       (e) to inspect any document in or on the land and take extracts
            from, or make copies of, any such document, without
            paying any fee;

        (f) to operate electronic equipment in or on the land;

       (g) to secure a thing for a period not exceeding 24 hours if the
            thing is found in or on the land, where the authorised
            officer or enforcement officer believes on reasonable
            grounds that —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    29

               (i) the thing is evidential material relevant to an offence
                   under this Act; and

              (ii) it is necessary to secure the thing in order to prevent
                   it from being concealed, lost or destroyed before a
                   warrant to seize the thing is obtained;

       (h) under warrant of court, to seize any thing found in or on the
            land which the authorised officer or enforcement officer
            reasonably suspects is as described in paragraph (g)(i);

        (i) to take into or onto the land any equipment and materials
            that the authorised officer or enforcement officer requires
            for the purpose of exercising powers under this Part in
            relation to the land.

 (2) The power under subsection (1)(f) to operate electronic
equipment in or on any land includes the power —

       (a) to use a disk, tape or other storage device that is in or on the
            land and can be used with the equipment or in association
            with the equipment;

       (b) to operate electronic equipment in or on the land to put the
            relevant data in documentary form and remove the
            documents so produced from the land; and

       (c) to operate electronic equipment in or on the land to transfer
            the relevant data to a disk, tape or other storage device
            that —

               (i) is brought to the premises for the exercise of the
                   power; or

              (ii) is in or on the land and the use of which for that
                   purpose has been agreed in writing by the occupier of
                   the land,

       (c) and to remove the disk, tape or other storage device from
            that land.

 (3) The power under subsection (1)(g) to secure any thing which is
found during the exercise of enforcement powers in or on any land
includes the power —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
30  NO. 42 OF 2022

       (a) to secure the thing by locking it up, placing a guard or any
            other means; and

       (b) to prohibit any person from dealing with such thing.

 (4) The power under subsection (1)(h) to seize any thing under
warrant includes the power to seize any thing which is similarly so
found that is not evidential material of the kind specified in the
warrant if —

       (a) in the course of searching for the kind of evidential
            material specified in the warrant, the enforcement officer
            finds the thing; and

       (b) the thing is evidential material for another offence under
            this Act.

 (5) In this section, “thing” may include a vehicle, vessel, material or
an article.

Power to obtain documents and information

 23.—(1) Subject to Part 6, an authorised officer or enforcement
officer may, in relation to any offence under this Act, by written
notice require any person whom the officer has reason to believe to be
acquainted with any facts or circumstances relevant to the reasonably
suspected commission of the offence, to do any of the following
within a reasonable period specified in the notice:

       (a) to provide, in a form and manner that may be specified in
            the notice, all documents and information that —

               (i) are within the knowledge of the person; or

              (ii) are in the custody or under the control of the person;

       (b) to attend before an authorised officer within the limits of
            Singapore to answer questions or provide documents or
            information or both.

 (2) The power to require a person to provide any document or
information under subsection (1) includes the power —

       (a) to require that person to provide an explanation of the
            document or information;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    31

       (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
            that person to state, to the best of the person’s knowledge
            and belief, where it is; and

       (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            authorised officer or enforcement officer in legible form.

 (3) Any statement made by any individual in answer to a question
under subsection (1)(b) must —

       (a) be reduced to writing;

       (b) be read over to the individual;

       (c) if the individual does not understand English, be
            interpreted in a language that the individual understands;
            and

       (d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by that individual.

 (4) The Authority is entitled without payment to keep any
document or information, or any copy or extract thereof, provided
to an authorised officer or enforcement officer under subsection (1).

 (5) A person —

       (a) who intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any
            document or information which the person has been
            required by an authorised officer or enforcement officer
            under subsection (1) to provide; or

       (b) who, in providing any document or information required
            by an authorised officer or enforcement officer under
            subsection (1), makes any statement which the person —

               (i) knows or ought reasonably to know that; or

              (ii) is reckless as to whether,

       (b) it is false or misleading,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
32  NO. 42 OF 2022

 (6) Subsection (5) does not apply if the document or information is
not false or misleading in a material particular, or if the document or
information does not omit any matter or thing without which the
document or information (as the case may be) is misleading in a
material particular.

 (7) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do anything
required of the person by an authorised officer or enforcement officer
under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

 (8) However, in any proceedings for an offence under
subsection (7), it is a defence for the accused to prove, on a
balance of probabilities, that —

       (a) the person does not possess the document or information
            required; and

       (b) the person has taken all reasonable steps available to the
            person to obtain the document or information required and
            has been unable to obtain it.

 (9) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of subsection (7), it is a
reasonable excuse for a person to refuse or fail to provide any
information, produce any document or answer any question if doing
so might tend to incriminate that person.

Power to obtain disclosure of identity

 24.—(1) Subject to Part 6, an authorised officer or enforcement
officer who has reasonable grounds to suspect that an individual in,
on or near any State land has committed, is committing, or is
attempting to commit, an offence under this Act in relation to the
State land may —

       (a) request the individual to state his or her name and
            residential address; and

       (b) if it is suspected on reasonable grounds that the name or
            address given in response to the request is false, require the
            individual to produce evidence of its correctness, including
            proof of identity.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    33

 (2) An authorised officer or enforcement officer may detain an
individual mentioned in subsection (1) only for so long as is
reasonably necessary for the purposes of this section.

 (3) An individual commits an offence if he or she, without
reasonable excuse —

       (a) refuses or fails to comply with a request under this section;
            or

       (b) in response to the request, gives a name that is false in a
            material particular, or gives an address other than the
            individual’s full and correct residential address.

 (4) An individual who is guilty of an offence under subsection (3)
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                       Division 2 — Supplementary

Disposal of seized or removed vehicles, etc.

 25.—(1) Any removed material moved or removed and any other
thing seized under this Act —

       (a) must be dealt with in accordance with section 364(1) of the
            Criminal Procedure Code 2010 where the removed
            material or other thing is produced in any criminal trial;

       (b) is deemed to be forfeited to the Authority where the owner
            of the removed material or other thing consents to its
            disposal; or

       (c) in any other case, must be returned to the owner or reported
            to a Magistrate’s Court,

unless section 13(5) applies.

 (2) Where the report of any removed material and any other thing is
made to a Magistrate’s Court under subsection (1)(c), sections 370,
371 and 372 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 apply, with the
necessary modifications.

 (3) Subject to any order to the contrary by the Magistrate’s Court,
any removed material or other thing forfeited or deemed to be

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
34  NO. 42 OF 2022

forfeited under this section must be delivered to the Authority and
may be disposed of in any manner that the Authority thinks fit.

Obstructing authorised officers, etc.

 26.—(1) A person who —

       (a) intentionally fails to do anything required of the person
            under section 22(1) by an authorised officer or
            enforcement officer; or

       (b) knowingly obstructs or prevents, or attempts to obstruct or
            prevent, an authorised officer or enforcement officer in the
            discharge of the officer’s powers or duties under this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (2) A person who, without the permission of an authorised
officer —

       (a) intentionally or dishonestly removes or attempts to remove
            any immobilisation or other device or cordon affixed or
            placed under section 22(1)(g) to secure any thing that is
            evidential material of an offence under this Act; or

       (b) intentionally or dishonestly removes or tampers with —

               (i) any encroachment notice given by an authorised
                   officer or enforcement officer; or

              (ii) any summons for criminal proceedings arising from
                   a complaint made by an authorised officer under
                   section 16(1),

       (b) after the notice or summons is affixed on the land in
            accordance with section 37(5) or (6), as the case may be,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

 (3) It is not an offence under subsection (1) for any person to refuse
to comply with any request, demand or order made or given by any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    35

authorised officer or enforcement officer who fails to declare his or
her office and refuses to produce his or her identification card on
demand being made by that person.

Composition of offences

 27.—(1) An authorised officer or enforcement officer specially
authorised by the Authority for this purpose may compound any
offence under this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence,
by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the
following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                    PART 6

                            ADMINISTRATION

Administration of Act

 28.—(1) It is the function of the Authority —

       (a) to administer this Act; and

       (b) to administer and manage all State lands, and to undertake
            the resumption or forfeiture of land, in accordance with
            this Act as an agent of the Government.

 (2) No liability shall lie personally against any member, officer or
employee of the Authority, any authorised officer or any other person
acting under the direction of the Authority for anything which is done
or purported to be done, or omitted to be done, in good faith and with
reasonable care in —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
36  NO. 42 OF 2022

       (a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
            Act; or

       (b) the performance or purported performance of any function
            under this Act.

Authorised officers

 29.—(1) The Authority may, in relation to any provision of this Act,
appoint to be authorised officers for the purposes of that provision,
any of the following individuals:

       (a) the Commissioner of Lands;

       (b) any employee of the Authority, or any individual
            performing duties in the Authority, who is suitably trained.

 (2) The Authority may, for any reason that appears to it to be
sufficient, at any time revoke an individual’s appointment as an
authorised officer.

 (3) The Authority may delegate the exercise of all or any of the
powers conferred or duties imposed upon it by any provision of this
Act (except the powers of delegation conferred by this subsection and
to make subsidiary legislation) to any authorised officer, subject to
any conditions or limitations that the Authority may specify; and any
reference in that provision of this Act to the Authority includes a
reference to such an authorised officer.

 (4) Any delegation under subsection (3) may be general or in a
particular case and may be subject to any conditions or limitations
that are set out in this Act or that the Authority may specify.

 (5) The Authority must issue to each authorised officer an
identification card, which must be carried at all times by the
authorised officer when exercising powers under this Act.

 (6) An individual whose appointment as an authorised officer
ceases must return any identification card issued to the individual
under subsection (5) to the Authority.

 (7) A reference in subsection (1) to a person performing duties in
the Authority includes a person performing duties in the Authority
under a contract, or under an arrangement making available

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    37

temporarily to the Authority the services of public officers, on
secondment.

Enforcement officers

 30.—(1) The Authority may, in relation to any provision of this Act,
appoint any of the following individuals to be an enforcement officer
to assist the Authority in the administration of this Act in any
particular area in Singapore:

       (a) any public officer, or any employee of a public authority
            (but not a Town Council);

       (b) an individual who is an auxiliary police officer appointed
            under the Police Force Act 2004.

 (2) The Authority may, for any reason that appears to the Authority
to be sufficient, at any time revoke an individual’s appointment as an
enforcement officer.

 (3) The Authority must issue to each enforcement officer an
identification card, which must be carried at all times by the
enforcement officer when exercising powers under this Act.

 (4) An enforcement officer is not an employee of the Authority.

 (5) An individual who is appointed as an enforcement officer under
subsection (1) does not, by virtue only of the appointment, become an
agent of the Authority.

 (6) An individual whose appointment as an enforcement officer
ceases must return any identification card issued to the individual
under subsection (3) to the Authority.

Authorisation for enforcement officers

 31.—(1) The Authority must issue to each enforcement officer a
written authorisation specifying such of the powers expressly
specified in section 22, 23 or 24 as exercisable by an enforcement
officer, as what that enforcement officer may exercise, and no other
powers.

 (2) The authorisation under subsection (1) issued to an enforcement
officer may also do all or any of the following:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
38  NO. 42 OF 2022

       (a) limit when, and where in Singapore, the enforcement
            officer may exercise powers in section 22, 23 or 24
            expressed as exercisable by an enforcement officer or any
            of them;

       (b) limit the circumstances in which the enforcement officer
            may exercise those powers or any of them.

 (3) To avoid doubt, the Authority cannot authorise under this
section an enforcement officer to arrest any individual.

 (4) The powers that an enforcement officer may be authorised
under this section to exercise may be exercised only —

       (a) to the extent authorised by the Authority under
            subsection (1);

       (b) upon production of the identification card issued under
            section 30(3); and

       (c) as directed (generally or specially) by an authorised officer
            or other employee of the Authority.

 (5) An enforcement officer who is authorised under subsection (1)
to exercise any power expressly specified in this Act as exercisable by
an enforcement officer is deemed to be a public servant for the
purposes of the Penal Code 1871 when exercising that power.

 (6) To avoid doubt, an enforcement officer does not cease to be
acting on the direction of an officer or employee of the Authority by
reason only that the officer or employee of the Authority is not
present at all times.

                                    PART 7
                             MISCELLANEOUS
Interface with other laws
 32.—(1) To avoid doubt, this Act does not affect the operation of —
       (a) the Active Mobility Act 2017;
       (b) the Parks and Trees Act 2005;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    39

       (c) the Sewerage, Drainage and Coastal Protection Act 1999;
            and

                                                                                 [Act 8 of 2026 wef 29/05/2026]

       (d) the Street Works Act 1995.

 (2) This Act does not deprive the Government of any right to
proceed under the law, or of any remedy against trespassers given by
law.

Supplementary provisions

 33.—(1) The Authority may, upon an application by a person, grant
an extension of time within which the person is required by or under
this Act to do or not to do any thing or work (whether for the same or
less than the period of extension applied for), upon being satisfied
that there are good reasons to do so.

 (2) No misnomer or inaccurate description of any person or place
named or described in any document prepared, issued or given under
or for the purposes of this Act affects the operation of this Act as
respects that person or place, if that person or place is so designated in
the document as to be identifiable.

 (3) To avoid doubt, an identification card may be issued under
section 29(5) or 30(3) in a digital form, consisting of evidence of the
issue thereof to an individual using information relating to the
appointment as an authorised officer or enforcement officer (as the
case may be) of the individual that is displayed on a mobile
communication device or other electronic device.

Offences by corporations

 34.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
40  NO. 42 OF 2022

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                   type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                   take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                   commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) any written law or practice regarding the admissibility of
            evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    41

(6) In this section —

    “chief executive officer”, in relation to a corporation, means an
        individual (by whatever name described) who —

            (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
                 arrangement with, the corporation; and

            (b) is principally responsible for the management and
                 conduct of the business of the corporation,

        and includes an individual for the time being performing all
        or any of the functions or duties of a chief executive officer;

    “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership;

    “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
        partner, chief executive officer, manager, secretary or other
        similar officer of the corporation, and includes —

            (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

            (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
                 members, any of those members as if the member
                 were a director of the corporation;

    “reasonable steps”, in relation to the commission of an offence,
        includes, but is not limited to, any action (if any) of the
        following kinds that is reasonable in all the circumstances:

            (a) action towards —

                    (i) assessing the corporation’s compliance with
                        the provision creating the offence; and

                   (ii) ensuring that the corporation arranged regular
                        professional assessments of its compliance
                        with the provision;

            (b) action towards ensuring that the corporation’s
                 employees, agents and contractors are provided
                 with information, training, instruction and
                 supervision appropriate to them to enable them to
                 comply with the provision creating the offence so far
                 as the provision is relevant to them;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
42  NO. 42 OF 2022

              (c) action towards ensuring that —

                     (i) the equipment and other resources; and

                     (ii) the structures, work systems and other
                          processes,

              (c) relevant to compliance with the provision creating
                   the offence are appropriate in all the circumstances;

              (d) action towards creating and maintaining a corporate
                   culture that does not direct, encourage, tolerate or
                   lead to non‑compliance with the provision creating
                   the offence;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with any modifications that the Minister
considers appropriate, to any corporation formed or recognised under
the law of a territory outside Singapore.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 35.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    43

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                   case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                   offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the unincorporated
                   association or partnership; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the unincorporated association or
                   partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                   be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                   reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                   that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
44  NO. 42 OF 2022

       (b) any written law or practice regarding the admissibility of
            evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
         a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
         member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
         and includes —

              (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
                   president, secretary or member of a committee of the
                   unincorporated association; and

              (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

      “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

      “reasonable steps” has the meaning given by section 34;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with any modifications that the Minister
considers appropriate, to any unincorporated association or
partnership formed or recognised under the law of a territory
outside Singapore.

Jurisdiction of courts

 36. Despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, a District Court or a
Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act
and has power to impose the full punishment for any such offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    45

Service of documents

 37.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by post to the address specified by the
            individual for the service of documents or, if no address is
            so specified, the individual’s residential address or
            business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual; or

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner, secretary or other similar officer
            of the partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the
            partnership’s business address;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
            partnership’s business address; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
            address.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
46  NO. 42 OF 2022

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
            body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
            limited liability partnership’s manager;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the registered
            office or principal office in Singapore of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the registered
            office or principal office in Singapore of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association.

 (5) In addition, a document permitted or required by this Act to be
served on an individual, a partnership, a body corporate or an
unincorporated association may be served —

       (a) by giving an electronic notice to the individual,
            partnership, body corporate or unincorporated
            association (called in this section an addressee) by the
            addressee’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
            document is available and how the addressee may use the
            addressee’s chosen means of access to access the
            document’s contents; or

       (b) where by the exercise of reasonable diligence, the name of
            any individual or a body of persons to whom the document
            is to be given, or the business address, residential address
            or last email address of the individual or body, cannot be
            ascertained —

               (i) in the case of an encroachment notice, by affixing it
                   on a board or other structure in a conspicuous place
                   on the land to which the notice relates; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    47

              (ii) by posting the document on a website maintained by
                   the Authority and prescribed by the Minister, by
                   notification in the Gazette, for this purpose.

 (6) A summons for criminal proceedings arising from a complaint
made by an authorised officer under section 16(1) may be served as
follows, despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010:

       (a) in the manner described in subsection (2)(a), (b), (c) or (d)
            in the case of individuals, subsection (3)(a), (b) or (c) in the
            case of partnerships, or subsection (4)(a), (b) or (c) in the
            case of a body corporate (including a limited liability
            partnership) or an unincorporated association;

       (b) if, after due inquiry to ascertain the whereabouts of any
            person on whom a summons is required to be served, the
            whereabouts of that person cannot be ascertained, the
            summons may be given or served —

               (i) by affixing it on a board or other structure in a
                   conspicuous place on the land to which the alleged
                   offence in the summons relates; and

              (ii) by affixing a copy of the same summons in a
                   conspicuous place in the office of the Authority.

 (7) Service of a document takes effect —

       (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
            successful transmission is received, on the day of
            transmission;

       (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
            becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
            it is sent;

       (c) if the document is sent by post, 2 days after the day the
            document was posted (even if it is returned undelivered);

       (d) in the case of an encroachment notice or summons affixed
            in the manner described in subsection (5)(b)(i) or (6)(b), at
            the beginning of the day after the date on which
            subsection (5)(b)(i) or (6)(b) has been complied with; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
48  NO. 42 OF 2022

       (e) if the document is posted on a website mentioned in
            subsection (5)(b)(ii), at the beginning of the day after the
            date on which subsection (5)(b)(ii) has been complied
            with.

 (8) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email or by an electronic notice at the person’s chosen means of
notification, may be effected only with the person’s prior consent
(express or implied) to service in that way.

 (9) This section does not apply to any documents to be served in
proceedings in court except where expressly provided.

 (10) In this section —

      “business address” means —

              (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
                   last known place of business, or place of
                   employment, in Singapore; or

              (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
                   liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
                   last known place of business in Singapore;

      “chosen means of access”, for an addressee on whom is or is to
         be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
         means an electronic means the addressee agrees with the
         person giving or serving the document as the means by which
         the addressee may access that document’s contents;

      “chosen means of notification”, for an addressee on whom is or
         is to be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
         means an electronic means that the addressee nominates to
         the person giving or serving the document as the means by
         which the addressee may be notified that such a document
         has been served on the addressee;

      “document” includes a notice or an order permitted or required
         by this Act to be served;

      “last email address” means the last email address given by the
         addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION  49

         document as the email address for the service of documents
         under this Act;

      “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
         place of residence in Singapore.

Regulations

 38.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations necessary or convenient to be prescribed for
carrying out or giving effect to this Act.

 (2) Regulations made under this section may —

       (a) prescribe the offences under this Act that may be
            compounded;

       (b) provide that any contravention of any provision of the
            regulations is an offence, and that the penalty for which on
            conviction shall be a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

       (c) provide for any saving, transitional, and other
            consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions
            that are necessary or expedient for the purposes of this Act.

Presentation to Parliament

 39. All regulations made under this Act must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

                                    PART 8
              AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS AND

                           FINAL PROVISIONS
Amendment of Land Titles Act 1993

 40. Section 29(1) of the Land Titles Act 1993 is amended —
       (a) by deleting the word “and” at the end of paragraph (c)(ii);
       (b) by deleting the comma at the end of paragraph (c)(iii) and
            substituting the word “; and”; and
       (c) by inserting, immediately after sub‑paragraph (iii) of
            paragraph (c), the following sub‑paragraph:

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
50  NO. 42 OF 2022

                               “(iv) any encroachment notice issued
                                      under section 12 of the State Lands
                                      Protection Act 2022 in respect of the
                                      land unless the information specified
                                      in the encroachment notice is no
                                      longer current,”.

Amendment of Parks and Trees Act 2005

 41.—(1) Section 4 of the Parks and Trees Act 2005 is amended by
deleting the words “and 42” in subsections (6), (7) and (8) and
substituting in each case the words “, 42, 42A and 42B”.

 (2) Section 42 of the Parks and Trees Act 2005 is amended by
deleting subsection (3).

 (3) Part 7 of the Parks and Trees Act 2005 is amended by inserting,
immediately after section 42, the following sections:

      “Power to move vehicles and demolish structures, etc.

       42A.—(1) Subject to sections 42B and 42C, where —

             (a) any vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster or other thing
                  is parked, moored or otherwise left in a national park,
                  nature reserve or public park contrary to this Act; or

             (b) any sign, shrine, altar, religious object, shelter,
                  structure or building is affixed, set up or erected in
                  a public park contrary to this Act,

      the Commissioner, an authorised officer or a park ranger may
      serve upon any person specified in subsection (2) a written
      notice requiring the person to do any of the following within the
      period specified in the notice, or any extension of that period that
      the Commissioner, authorised officer or park ranger (as the case
      may be) may allow in any particular case:

             (c) to remove the vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster or
                  other thing mentioned in paragraph (a) from the
                  national park, nature reserve or public park, as the
                  case may be;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    51

       (d) to alter, demolish or remove any sign, shrine, altar,
            religious object, shelter, structure or building
            mentioned in paragraph (b) and remove all resulting
            debris from the public park concerned.

 (2) The written notice mentioned in subsection (1) may be
served on any person as follows:

       (a) any person who does or causes or permits to be done
            any of the acts mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b);

       (b) the owner or person having charge or control of —

               (i) the vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster or other
                   thing mentioned in subsection (1)(a); or

              (ii) any sign, shrine, altar, religious object, shelter,
                   structure or building mentioned in
                   subsection (1)(b);

       (c) any other person having power to remove —

               (i) the vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster or other
                   thing mentioned in subsection (1)(a); or

              (ii) any sign, shrine, altar, religious object, shelter,
                   structure or building mentioned in
                   subsection (1)(b).

Immediate removal of dangerous or obstructing
vehicles, etc., in national park, nature reserve or public
park

 42B.—(1) Where any vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster or
other thing is parked, moored or otherwise left in a national park,
nature reserve or public park contrary to this Act and —

       (a) by the exercise of reasonable diligence, the following
            cannot be ascertained:

               (i) the name of any person in section 42A(2)(a),
                   (b)(i) or (c)(i) to whom the written notice under
                   section 42A(1) is to be served;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
52  NO. 42 OF 2022

                  (ii) the business address, residential address or last
                       email address of the person in
                       section 42A(2)(a), (b)(i) or (c)(i) to whom the
                       written notice under section 42A(1) is to be
                       served; or

           (b) in the opinion of the Commissioner, an authorised
                officer or a park ranger, the vehicle, boat, trailer, skip,
                dumpster or other thing —

                   (i) is endangering or is expected to endanger other
                       users of the national park, nature reserve or
                       public park; or

                  (ii) is causing or is expected to cause an obstruction
                       to other users of the national park, nature
                       reserve or public park,

    the Commissioner, authorised officer or park ranger (as the case
    may be) may, without first serving a written notice under
    section 42A(1), move or cause to be moved, the vehicle, boat,
    trailer, skip, dumpster or other thing to a holding yard, or to
    another place, to avoid further danger or obstruction or a danger
    or an obstruction arising (as the case may be) to other users of
    the national park, nature reserve or public park.

     (2) For the purpose of exercising a power under subsection (1),
    the Commissioner, an authorised officer or a park ranger may,
    with any assistance that he or she considers necessary —

           (a) move the vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster or other
                thing by any reasonable means (including by driving,
                riding or towing it); and

           (b) use reasonable force, including cutting or breaking
                open any lock, seal, fastener or other device on or
                connected to the vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster
                or other thing.

     (3) After a vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster or other thing
    is moved to a holding yard or other place under subsection (1),
    the Commissioner, an authorised officer or a park ranger (as the
    case may be) must, as soon as practicable, serve a notice to any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    53

owner, or person having charge or control, of the vehicle, boat,
trailer, skip, dumpster or other thing —

       (a) about the moving to and detention at a holding yard or
            other place of the vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster
            or other thing moved and detained; and

       (b) informing about —

               (i) the manner by which and the time within which
                   an owner of the vehicle, boat, trailer, skip,
                   dumpster or other thing so detained may
                   procure its release; and

              (ii) the consequences that may follow under
                   section 46A if the vehicle, boat, trailer, skip,
                   dumpster or other thing is not claimed within
                   the time specified in the notice.

 (4) A notice under subsection (3) is not required if, by the
exercise of reasonable diligence, the name and the business
address, residential address or last email address of the owner, or
person having charge or control, of the vehicle, boat, trailer,
skip, dumpster or other thing cannot be ascertained.

Immediate demolition, etc., of dangerous structure, etc., in
public park

 42C.—(1) Where any sign, shrine, altar, religious object,
shelter, structure or building is affixed, set up or erected in a
public park contrary to this Act and —

       (a) by the exercise of reasonable diligence, the following
            cannot be ascertained:

               (i) the name of any person in section 42A(2)(a),
                   (b)(ii) or (c)(ii) to whom the written notice
                   under section 42A(1) is to be served;

              (ii) the business address, residential address or last
                   email address of the person in
                   section 42A(2)(a), (b)(ii) or (c)(ii) to whom
                   the written notice under section 42A(1) is to be
                   served;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
54  NO. 42 OF 2022

           (b) in the opinion of the Commissioner or an authorised
                officer, the sign, shrine, altar, religious object, shelter,
                structure or building —

                   (i) is in such a condition, or is used to carry such
                       loads, as to be endangering or expected to
                       endanger other users of the public park; or

                  (ii) is causing or is likely to cause a serious
                       obstruction to other users of the public park; or

           (c) in the opinion of the Commissioner or an authorised
                officer —

                   (i) there is a serious and imminent risk of public
                       disorder in the public park; or

                  (ii) an actual or imminent occurrence has happened
                       or may happen that endangers or threatens the
                       safety of users of the public park,

           (c) because of any crowd, or any ceremony or other
                activity undertaken or which may be undertaken, at or
                around the sign, shrine, altar, religious object, shelter,
                structure or building,

    the Commissioner or authorised officer (as the case may be)
    may, without first serving a written notice under
    section 42A(1) —

           (d) alter, demolish or remove or cause to be altered,
                demolished or removed, the sign, shrine, altar,
                religious object, shelter, structure or building to
                avoid further danger or obstruction or a danger or
                an obstruction arising (as the case may be) to other
                users of the public park; and

           (e) move the sign, shrine, altar or religious object and any
                resulting debris from the altering, demolition or
                removal to a holding yard or another place.

     (2) For the purpose of exercising a power under subsection (1),
    the Commissioner or an authorised officer may, with any
    assistance that he or she considers necessary —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    55

       (a) enter any premises (without warrant) but only after
            declaring his or her office to any owner or occupier of
            the premises, or any other person who appears to be in
            charge of those premises, and is present during entry;
            and

       (b) forcibly enter any premises without warrant,
            including by breaking open any outer or inner door
            or window leading to the premises and removing by
            force any obstruction to the entry, if the
            Commissioner or authorised officer (as the case
            may be) is unable to enter, or is refused entry to,
            the premises.

 (3) After a sign, shrine, altar, religious object, shelter, structure
or building is altered, demolished or removed under
subsection (1), the Commissioner or an authorised officer
must, as soon as practicable, serve a notice to any owner, or
person having charge or control, of the sign, shrine, altar,
religious object, shelter, structure or building —

       (a) about the altering, demolition or removal of the sign,
            shrine, altar, religious object, shelter, structure or
            building and the moving it and any resulting debris to
            and detention at a holding yard or other place; and

       (b) informing about —

               (i) the manner by which and the time within which
                   an owner of the sign, shrine, altar, religious
                   object, shelter, structure or building, and any
                   resulting debris, so detained may procure its
                   release; and

              (ii) the consequences that may follow under
                   section 46A if the sign, shrine, altar, religious
                   object, shelter, structure or building and any
                   resulting debris is not claimed within the time
                   specified in the notice.

 (4) A notice under subsection (3) is not required if, by the
exercise of reasonable diligence, the name and the business

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
56  NO. 42 OF 2022

    address, residential address or last email address of the owner, or
    person having charge or control, of the sign, shrine, altar,
    religious object, shelter, structure or building cannot be
    ascertained.

      (5) Subsection (2)(a) does not apply if the premises in
    question is unoccupied at the time of entry.”.

(4) Section 46 of the Parks and Trees Act 2005 is amended —

      (a) by inserting, immediately after sub‑paragraph (ii) of
           subsection (1)(a), the following sub‑paragraph:

                            “(iia) a notice under section 42A(1);”; and

      (b) by deleting subsection (4) and substituting the following
           subsection:

                  “(4) If any notice or condition of approval
                 mentioned in subsection (1) is not complied with to
                 the satisfaction of the Commissioner, the
                 Commissioner may at any time enter the premises
                 concerned and carry out or cause to be carried out any
                 works, activities or steps which are in the
                 Commissioner’s opinion necessary to secure
                 compliance with the notice or condition of approval
                 (as the case may be), including all or any of the
                 following:

                        (a) cut or remove any tree;

                        (b) alter, demolish or remove any sign, shrine,
                             altar, religious object, shelter, structure or
                             building erected, and removing to and
                             detaining it and any resulting debris at a
                             holding yard or other place;

                        (c) remove to and detain any vehicle, boat,
                             trailer, skip, dumpster or other thing at a
                             holding yard or other place;

                        (d) using reasonable force, including cutting or
                             breaking open any lock, seal, fastener or
                             other device.”.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    57

 (5) The Parks and Trees Act 2005 is amended by inserting,
immediately after section 46, the following section:

      “Disposal of moved vehicles, etc.

       46A.—(1) Unless subsection (2) applies, any vehicle, boat,
      trailer, skip, dumpster or other thing, or any sign, shrine, altar or
      religious object and any resulting debris from the altering,
      demolition or removal of the sign, shrine, altar, religious object,
      shelter, structure or building, which is removed to and detained
      at a holding yard or other place under section 42B(1), 42C(1) or
      46(4) (called in this section the removed material) —

             (a) must be dealt with in accordance with section 364(1)
                  of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 where the
                  removed material is to be produced in any criminal
                  trial in connection with an offence under this Act;

             (b) is deemed to be forfeited to the Board where any
                  owner of the removed material consents to its
                  disposal; or

             (c) in any other case, must be —

                     (i) returned to the owner; or

                    (ii) reported to a Magistrate’s Court, in which event
                         sections 370, 371 and 372 of the Criminal
                         Procedure Code 2010 then apply with the
                         necessary modifications.

       (2) Despite subsection (1), where it appears to the
      Commissioner that any removed material —

             (a) is perishable;

             (b) may rapidly depreciate in value; or

             (c) is of such a nature or in such condition that it would be
                  dangerous, not reasonably practicable or unduly
                  costly for the Commissioner to retain custody of the
                  removed material,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
58  NO. 42 OF 2022

      the Commissioner may, instead of storing the removed material
      at a holding yard or other place and notifying the owner thereof,
      cause the removed material —

             (d) to be sold (by public auction or otherwise) at once; or

             (e) to be destroyed or otherwise disposed of at such time
                  and in such manner as the Commissioner thinks fit.

       (3) If a person who appears, to the satisfaction of the Board, to
      be the owner of any removed material, and not to be a person in
      default with complying with the relevant notice or condition of
      approval in section 46(1), claims —

             (a) after that removed material has been sold, destroyed
                  or disposed of under subsection (2); but

             (b) before the end of one year starting the date the
                  removed material was removed under section 42B(1),
                  42C(1) or 46(4), whichever is applicable,

      the Board may compensate, out of the funds of the Board, the
      person for the loss of the removed material, less reasonable costs
      and expenses incurred by the Board in storing and selling,
      destroying or disposing of the removed material.

       (4) Subject to any order to the contrary by the Magistrate’s
      Court under the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, any removed
      material deemed forfeited under this section may be disposed of
      by the Board in any manner that the Board thinks fit.”.

 (6) Section 63(2) of the Parks and Trees Act 2005 is amended by
deleting sub‑paragraph (viii) of paragraph (a).

Amendment of Sewerage and Drainage Act 1999

 42. The Sewerage and Drainage Act 1999 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the definition of “drainage reserve” in section 2
            and substituting the following definition:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    59

           “ “drainage reserve” means —

                         (a) any land set aside for drainage works
                              pursuant to development proposals
                              approved by a competent authority;

                         (b) any land vested in the Government
                              under section 29; or

                         (c) any State land that is reserved for the
                              purposes of the Board (permanently
                              or temporarily) in connection with
                              drainage works or a storm water
                              drainage system;”;

(b) by deleting paragraph (a) of section 24(1) and substituting
     the following paragraph:

                 “(a) erect or place any fence, partition, structure
                       or object in, above or across, or enclosing,
                       any drain;”;

(c) by deleting subsection (2) of section 24 and substituting the
     following subsections:

            “(1A) A person must not, except with the prior
           approval of the Board —

                  (a) deposit or leave any soil, building material
                       or components, construction or renovation
                       debris or other like matter within any
                       drainage reserve that is State land;

                  (b) park or leave any vehicle on any drainage
                       reserve that is State land;

                  (c) clear, dig up or cultivate, or interfere with
                       any substance on, in or forming part of, any
                       drainage reserve that is State land; or

                  (d) cause or allow any activity mentioned in
                       paragraph (a), (b) or (c) to be carried out.

            (2) Where any fence, partition, structure or object is
           erected or placed, or any obstruction is caused, in

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
60  NO. 42 OF 2022

               contravention of subsection (1) or an act is carried out
               in contravention of subsection (1A), the Board may
               by notice, direct the person to whom the notice is
               given, to do all or any of the following and within the
               time as are specified in the notice:

                      (a) to demolish or remove any fence, partition,
                           structure or object erected or placed —

                              (i) in, above or across, or enclosing, the
                                  drain; or

                             (ii) within the drainage reserve;

                      (b) to move or remove from the drainage
                           reserve, any object or obstruction,
                           including vehicles, soil, building material
                           or components, construction or renovation
                           debris or other like matter;

                      (c) to do, or to refrain from doing, any work
                           that is specified in the notice in order —

                              (i) to rectify any damage to the drain or
                                  drainage reserve as a result of; or

                             (ii) to restore the drain or drainage
                                  reserve to its state before,

                      (c) any unlawful activity mentioned in
                           subsection (1) or (1A) done by the
                           person, or caused or permitted by the
                           person.”;

    (d) by inserting, immediately after the words “subsection (1)”
         in section 24(3)(a), the words “or (1A)(a), (b) or (c)”;

    (e) by deleting the words “structure, object or obstruction” in
         section 24(3)(b) and (c) and substituting in each case the
         words “fence, partition, structure, object or obstruction”;

    (f) by inserting, immediately after the words “subsection (1)”
         in section 24(4), the words “or (1A)”;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    61

(g) by inserting, immediately after subsection (4) of
     section 24, the following subsections:

            “(5) Where the person on whom a notice mentioned
           in subsection (2) is served fails to comply with the
           notice, an authorised officer may, at all reasonable
           hours in the day or night, or at any other time that may
           be agreed with an owner or occupier of the premises
           to which the notice relates, enter the premises and
           take such measures and execute such work as may be
           necessary to secure compliance with the notice,
           including —

                  (a) by cutting or breaking open any lock, seal,
                       fastener or other device on or connected to
                       the fence, partition, structure, object,
                       vehicle, material, article or thing
                       concerned using reasonable force;

                  (b) by towing away the object, vehicle,
                       material, article or thing concerned; or

                  (c) by removing or demolishing any fence,
                       partition, structure or object concerned and
                       removing any resulting debris.

            (6) Any expenses reasonably incurred by the Board
           under subsection (5) may be recovered from the
           person who failed to comply with the notice served on
           the person under subsection (2), and section 48
           applies in respect of those expenses.

            (7) Unless subsection (8) applies, any fence,
           partition, structure, object, vehicle, material, article,
           thing or resulting debris removed under
           subsection (5) —

                  (a) must be dealt with in accordance with
                       section 364(1) of the Criminal Procedure
                       Code 2010 where the fence, partition,
                       structure, object, vehicle, material, article,
                       thing or debris is to be produced in any

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
62  NO. 42 OF 2022

                criminal trial in connection with an offence
                under this Act;

           (b) is deemed to be forfeited to the Board
                where any owner of the fence, partition,
                structure, object, vehicle, material, article,
                thing or debris consents to its disposal; or

           (c) in any other case, must be —

                   (i) returned to the owner; or

                  (ii) reported to a Magistrate’s Court, in
                       which event sections 370, 371 and
                       372 of the Criminal Procedure
                       Code 2010 then apply with the
                       necessary modifications.

     (8) Where it appears to the Board that any fence,
    partition, structure, object, vehicle, material, article,
    thing or resulting debris removed by an authorised
    officer under subsection (5) —

           (a) is perishable;

           (b) may rapidly depreciate in value; or

           (c) is of such a nature or in such condition that
                it would be dangerous, not reasonably
                practicable or unduly costly for the Board
                to retain custody of the fence, partition,
                structure, object, vehicle, material, article,
                thing or debris,

    the Board may cause the fence, partition, structure,
    object, vehicle, material, article, thing or debris
    (called in this section the removed material) —

           (d) to be sold (by public auction or otherwise)
                at once and the proceeds of sale to be paid
                into the funds of the Board; or

           (e) to be destroyed or otherwise disposed of at
                such time and in such manner as the Board
                thinks fit.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    63

            (9) If a person who appears, to the satisfaction of the
           Board, to be the owner of any removed material and
           not to be a person in default with complying with the
           relevant notice in subsection (2), claims —

                  (a) after that removed material has been sold,
                       destroyed or disposed of under
                       subsection (8); but

                  (b) before the end of one year starting the date
                       the removed material was removed under
                       subsection (5),

           the Board may compensate, out of the funds of the
           Board, the person for the loss of the removed material,
           less reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the
           Board in storing and selling, destroying or disposing
           of the removed material.

            (10) Subject to any order to the contrary by the
           Magistrate’s Court under the Criminal Procedure
           Code 2010, any removed material deemed forfeited
           under this section may be disposed of by the Board in
           any manner that the Board thinks fit.

            (11) To avoid doubt —

                  (a) this section does not prohibit the Board
                       from carrying out any works specified in
                       any notice under subsection (2) at the
                       request of a person who has been served
                       with the notice upon an undertaking by that
                       person to pay the costs and expenses in
                       executing the works; and

                  (b) any measures taken or work executed
                       under subsection (5) by an authorised
                       officer does not affect any proceedings
                       that may be taken against a person for an
                       offence under subsection (4).”;

(h) by inserting, immediately after section 24, the following
     section:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
64  NO. 42 OF 2022

    “Trees and plants encroaching into drainage
    reserve

     24A.—(1) Where the Board is satisfied that any tree
    or plant (whether or not dead or dying) on any
    premises adjoining a drainage reserve or any part of a
    drainage reserve is likely, by falling or otherwise —

           (a) to cause any obstruction to the flow of any
                storm water drainage system or the
                maintenance of any drain in the drainage
                reserve; or

           (b) to hinder the efficient operation of any
                storm water drainage system or drain in the
                drainage reserve,

    the Board may serve a notice requiring the occupier of
    the premises to take any measures (including cutting
    the tree or plant or any part of it) that the Board thinks
    fit within the time specified in the notice.

     (2) Any person on whom a notice mentioned in
    subsection (1) is served who, without reasonable
    excuse, fails to comply with the notice shall be guilty
    of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
    fine not exceeding $10,000.

     (3) Where the person on whom the notice
    mentioned in subsection (1) is served fails to
    comply with the notice, an authorised officer may,
    at all reasonable hours in the day or night, or at any
    other time that may be agreed with the owner or
    occupier of the premises to which the notice relates,
    enter the premises and take such measures and
    execute such work as may be necessary to secure
    compliance with the notice.

     (4) Any expenses reasonably incurred by the Board
    under subsection (3) may be recovered from the
    person who failed to comply with the notice served on
    the person under subsection (1), and section 48 and, if

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    65

                  that person is the owner of the premises, section 50
                  apply in respect of those expenses.

                    (5) To avoid doubt —

                          (a) this section does not prohibit the Board
                               from carrying out any works specified in
                               any notice under subsection (1) at the
                               request of a person who has been served
                               with the notice upon an undertaking by that
                               person to pay the costs and expenses in
                               executing the works; and

                          (b) any measures taken or work executed
                               under subsection (3) by an authorised
                               officer does not affect any proceedings
                               that may be taken against a person for an
                               offence under subsection (2).”; and

        (i) by inserting, immediately after the words “drainage
            reserve” in section 29(1), the words “that is not within
            State land and”.

Amendment of Singapore Land Authority Act 2001

 43. The Singapore Land Authority Act 2001 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “State Lands Encroachments
            Act 1883” in section 6(1)(e)(i) and (ii) and substituting
            in each case the words “State Lands Protection Act 2022”;

       (b) by deleting the words “done or intended to be done” in
            section 12(1) and substituting the words “and with
            reasonable care done or omitted to be done”;

       (c) by deleting the words “, charges, fines and composition
            sums” in section 14(c) and substituting the words “and
            charges”;

       (d) by inserting, immediately after subsection (2) of
            section 33, the following subsection:

                    “(3) All sums collected under this section must be
                  paid into the Consolidated Fund.”;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
66  NO. 42 OF 2022

       (e) by deleting subsection (3) of section 34; and

        (f) by deleting item 6 of the Third Schedule and substituting
            the following item:

                  “6. Sections 5, 6, 10(2), 12(5), 18(5), 23(5) and (7), 24(3) and

                           26(1) and (2) of the State Lands Protection Act 2022.”.

Amendment of Street Works Act 1995

 44. Section 32A of the Street Works Act 1995 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the word “or” at the end of subsection (1)(a);

       (b) by inserting, immediately after the words “to remain on” in
            subsection (1)(b), the words “or to protrude over”;

       (c) by deleting the comma at the end of paragraph (b) of
            subsection (1) and substituting the word “; or”, and by
            inserting immediately thereafter the following paragraph:

                        “(c) erect or cause to be erected a structure on,
                               under or over any public street,
                               five‑footway or private footway,”;

       (d) by deleting subsection (3) and substituting the following
            subsection:

                    “(3) If —

                          (a) any article or thing is deposited or left on,
                               or protrudes over; or

                          (b) any structure is erected, placed,
                               maintained, replaced, renewed or restored
                               on, under or over,

                  any public street, five‑footway or private footway in
                  contravention of subsection (1), an authorised officer
                  may move or remove that article, thing or structure, or
                  cause it to be so moved or removed, so that it is no
                  longer an obstruction or inconvenience to the passage
                  of the public on the public street, five‑footway or
                  private footway.”;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    67

(e) by deleting the words “move the article or thing” in
     subsection (4) and substituting the words “move or remove
     the article, thing or structure”;

(f) by deleting paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (4) and
     substituting the following paragraphs:

                 “(a) the owner of the article, thing or structure,
                       as the case may be;

                  (b) the person who caused the article or thing
                       to be deposited or left on, or to protrude
                       over, the public street, five‑footway or
                       private footway;

                 (ba) the person who caused the structure to be
                       erected on, under or over the public street,
                       five‑footway or private footway;”;

(g) by deleting paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (5) and
     substituting the following paragraphs:

                 “(a) demolish or remove any structure erected
                       on, under or over the public street,
                       five‑footway or private footway, and then
                       move or remove the structure to store at a
                       holding yard and dispose of the resulting
                       debris from the demolition;

                  (b) move or remove from the public street,
                       five‑footway or private footway, any
                       article, thing or structure by any
                       reasonable means to store at a holding
                       yard, including by towing the article, thing
                       or structure (as the case may be) to a
                       holding yard; and

                  (c) use reasonable force, including cutting or
                       breaking open any lock, seal, fastener or
                       other device on or connected to any article,
                       thing or structure mentioned in
                       paragraph (a) or (b).”;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
68  NO. 42 OF 2022

    (h) by deleting the words “remove any article or thing” in
         subsection (6) and substituting the words “move or remove
         any article, thing or structure”;

    (i) by deleting subsections (8) and (9) and substituting the
         following subsections:

                “(8) Where an authorised officer has exercised any
               power under subsection (3) in relation to any article,
               thing or structure —

                      (a) the authorised officer must cause a written
                           notice to be sent to an owner of the article,
                           thing or structure (if known) to inform the
                           owner of —

                              (i) the removal or demolition of the
                                  article, thing or structure;

                             (ii) the manner by which and the time
                                  within which the owner may procure
                                  the release of the article, thing or
                                  structure if not demolished; and

                            (iii) the consequences that may follow
                                  under subsections (10) and (11) if the
                                  article, thing or structure is not
                                  claimed within the time specified in
                                  the notice; and

                      (b) the Authority may recover, from any
                           person mentioned in subsection (4)(a),
                           (b), (ba) or (c), any costs reasonably
                           incurred by the Authority in connection
                           with the exercise of those powers,
                           including costs of storing any article,
                           thing or structure.

                (9) Despite subsections (8) and (10), where it
               appears to the Authority that any article, thing or
               structure moved or removed under subsection (3) —

                      (a) is perishable;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    69

                   (b) may rapidly depreciate in value; or

                   (c) is of such a nature or in such condition that
                        it would be dangerous, not reasonably
                        practicable or unduly costly for the
                        Authority to retain custody of the article,
                        thing or structure,

           the Authority may, instead of storing the article, thing
           or structure at a holding yard and notifying the owner
           thereof, cause it —

                   (d) to be sold (by public auction or otherwise)
                        at once; or

                   (e) to be destroyed or otherwise disposed of at
                        such time and in such manner as the
                        Authority thinks fit.”;

 (j) by deleting the words “subsection (9)” in subsections (10)
     and (12)(b) and substituting in each case the words
     “subsection (8)(a)”;

(k) by deleting the words “article or thing” wherever they
     appear in subsections (10), (11), (12) and (13) and
     substituting in each case the words “article, thing or
     structure”;

 (l) by deleting the words “subsection (10)” in subsection (11)
     and substituting the words “subsection (9) or (10)”; and

(m) by deleting subsection (15) and substituting the following
     subsection:

             “(15) In this section —

                 “authorised officer” means any employee of the
                     Authority, any outsourced enforcement
                     officer and any other person appointed by
                     the Authority under section 4 to assist in the
                     enforcement of this section;

                 “erect”, in relation to a structure, includes any
                     work carried out in constructing, installing,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
70  NO. 42 OF 2022

                            creating, replacing, maintaining, renewing or
                            restoring a structure;

                        “structure” includes any of the following:

                                (a) a post, pile, stake, pipe, chain, wire or
                                     any other similar thing fixed to the
                                     ground;

                                (b) a billboard, signboard, hoarding,
                                     fence, partition, sun‑shading device
                                     or canopy, an awning or advertising
                                     structure, or a platform, safety netting
                                     or other similar temporary structure;

                                (c) a tunnel or bridge or an underpass or
                                     overpass;

                                (d) a roof, cladding, curtain wall, bracket,
                                     cornice or other exterior feature of a
                                     building that is installed on, forms
                                     part of or projects outwards from a
                                     building.”.

Repeal

 45. The State Lands Encroachments Act 1883 is repealed.

Saving and transitional provisions

 46.—(1) This Act does not affect or apply in relation to —

       (a) any summons issued under section 2 or 6 of the repealed
            Act before the date of commencement of section 45;

       (b) any warrant issued under section 4 of the repealed Act
            before the date of commencement of section 45; and

       (c) any written notice to vacate served under section 4(4) of
            the repealed Act before the date of commencement of
            section 45,

and all proceedings from that summons, warrant or notice are to
continue according to the repealed Act as if this Act had not been
enacted.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
STATE LANDS PROTECTION                                    71

 (2) Despite section 45, sections 10 and 11 of the repealed Act
continue to apply to and in relation to any land which is the subject of
a notice in the Gazette under section 10(1) of the repealed Act.

 (3) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of this
section, the Minister may make regulations prescribing such
additional provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent
on the enactment of this section as the Minister may consider
necessary or expedient.

 (4) Nothing in this section affects section 16 of the Interpretation
Act 1965.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/5/2026
