GOOD SAMARITAN FOOD DONATION ACT 2024

         (No. 26 of 2024)

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

     1.  Short title and commencement
     2.  Interpretation
     3.  Purpose of Act
     4.  Waiver of criminal and civil liability
     5.  Application

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2  NO. 26 OF 2024

An Act for the protection of certain food donors from liability for any
  death or personal injury resulting from the consumption of food
  donated by those food donors under certain conditions.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
GOOD SAMARITAN FOOD DONATION                               3

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the Good Samaritan Food Donation Act 2024 and
comes into operation on a date that the Minister appoints by
notification in the Gazette.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act —

      “donate” means —

              (a) a person giving to another any thing for a charitable,
                   benevolent, or philanthropic purpose without
                   receiving any money or money’s worth; or

              (b) a person giving for a charitable, benevolent, or
                   philanthropic purpose, and without the person
                   receiving any money or money’s worth, any thing
                   donated by another;

      “entity” means —

              (a) a body corporate (including a limited liability
                   partnership);

              (b) an unincorporated association;

              (c) a partnership;

              (d) a business trust;

              (e) a body of individuals who together form a body; or

              (f) a person other than an individual;

      “food” has the meaning given by section 4 of the Food Safety
         and Security Act 2025;

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2025 wef 28/11/2025]

      “food donor” means any of the following:

              (a) any entity which donates food in the course of a
                   business, regardless if the entity is a charity
                   registered under the Charities Act 1994;

              (b) any other person who donates food;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
4  NO. 26 OF 2024

      “handling”, in relation to food, includes any one or more of the
         following:

              (a) cooking, defrosting, heating or preparing the food;

              (b) manufacturing, processing or preserving the food;

              (c) storing or packing the food;

              (d) transporting or delivering the food;

              (e) serving the food;

      “recipient”, of food, means the person directly receiving the
         food from a food donor;

      “unsafe” and “unsuitable”, in relation to food, have the
         meanings given respectively by sections 2C and 2D of the
         Sale of Food Act 1973.

Purpose of Act

 3. The purpose of this Act is to encourage food donations —

       (a) to reduce food waste; and

       (b) to increase availability of food for redistribution to
            food‑insecure communities.

Waiver of criminal and civil liability

 4.—(1) A food donor who donates any food shall not be liable in
any criminal or civil proceedings in respect of any death or personal
injury that results from the consumption of the food if —

       (a) the food was not unsafe and not unsuitable at the time it left
            the possession or control of the food donor;

       (b) where the food was of a nature that required it to be
            handled in a particular way to ensure that it remained safe
            and suitable to consume after it left the possession or
            control of the food donor, the food donor informed the
            recipient of the food of those handling requirements;

       (c) where the food would only have remained safe and suitable
            to consume for a particular period of time after it left the

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
GOOD SAMARITAN FOOD DONATION                               5

            possession or control of the food donor, the food donor
            informed the recipient of the food of that time limit; and

       (d) the food donor, before donating the food, took all
            reasonably practicable measures to comply with any
            applicable requirement under any written law relating to
            food safety and food hygiene when handling the food.

 (2) This section is additional to any other defence available to the
defendant apart from this section.

Application

 5.—(1) Section 4 does not apply in relation to liability arising
before the commencement of that section.

 (2) This Act does not apply to —

       (a) any exchanging or giving of food between individuals as
            part of a personal relationship; or

       (b) any supply of food together with accommodation to an
            individual residing at a private residence in exchange for
            services or labour by the individual.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
