THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
              SMALL MOTORISED VEHICLES
                       (SAFETY) ACT 2020

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
                                                                  2020 Ed.

         Small Motorised Vehicles
             (Safety) Act 2020

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
         Interpretation
     1.  Purposes of Act
     2.  Act binds Government
     3.
     4.

                                       PART 2

                              IMPORT CONTROLS

5. Importing small motorised vehicle needs approval
6. Approvals for import
7. Cancellation of import approval
8. Breach of purpose of imported vehicle

                                      PART 2A
                      KEEPING OF UNSAFE DEVICES

8A. Keeping unsafe device
8B. Presumption of keeping unsafe device

                                        PART 3

                                  ENFORCEMENT

 9. Purpose for which enforcement powers are exercisable by
         authorised officers

10. Powers of entry, etc., at premises
11. Power to seize vehicles
12. Offence of non-compliance, etc.
13. Offence of providing false information, etc.
14. Composition of offences

                                                      1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
          Small Motorised Vehicles

2020 Ed.  (Safety) Act 2020                                        2

Section
   15. Forfeiture of vehicles, etc.

                                        PART 4

                                ADMINISTRATION

16. Administration of Act
17. Authorised officers
18. Identification cards and equipment
19. Obstructing authorised officers, etc.

                                        PART 5

                                MISCELLANEOUS

20. Preservation of secrecy
21. Protection from personal liability
22. Offences by corporations
23. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
24. Jurisdiction of courts
25. Service of documents
26. General exemption
27. Regulations
28. Presentation to Parliament

                                        PART 6
     AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS AND FINAL PROVISION

29. [Repealed]
30. Saving and transitional provision

An Act to control the import and keeping of motorised personal
  mobility devices, power‑assisted bicycles and other similar
  motorised vehicles, and to make related amendments to certain
  other land transport Acts regarding the payment of moneys into the
  Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2026 wef 01/06/2026]

                     [1 April 2021: Sections 29(c) and (d), 30 and 31 ;
                 28 June 2021: Sections 2 (except paragraph (c) of the
                definition of “personal mobility device” or “PMD” and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
   Small Motorised Vehicles

3  (Safety) Act 2020                                        2020 Ed.

        paragraph (c) of the definition of “power‑assisted
   bicycle” or “PAB”), 3 to 28, 29(a), (b) and (f) and 32 ]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1.—(1) This Act is the Small Motorised Vehicles (Safety) Act
2020.

 (2) Paragraph (c) of the definition of “personal mobility device” or
“PMD” in section 2(1) and paragraph (c) of the definition of
“power‑assisted bicycle” or “PAB” in section 2(1) come into
operation on a date that the Minister appoints by notification in the
Gazette.

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “authorised officer”, for any provision of this Act, means an
         individual who is appointed under section 17 as an authorised
         officer for the purposes of that provision;

      “Authority” means the Land Transport Authority of Singapore
         constituted under the Land Transport Authority of Singapore
         Act 1995;

      “conveyance” includes any vessel, train, vehicle or aircraft in
         which persons or goods can be carried;

      “customs territory” means any part of Singapore and her
         territorial waters but excludes any free trade zone;

      “export”, in relation to any goods, means —

              (a) to take or cause to be taken out of the customs
                   territory by land, water or air to any place, including a
                   free trade zone; or

              (b) to place goods in any form of conveyance for the
                   purpose of taking the goods out of the customs

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
          Small Motorised Vehicles

2020 Ed.  (Safety) Act 2020                                        4

          territory by land, water or air to any place, including a
          free trade zone,

          but does not include the taking out from the customs territory
          of any goods in transit unless those goods have been landed
          or transhipped within the customs territory;

“free trade zone” means any area in Singapore declared to be a
   free trade zone under the Free Trade Zones Act 1966;

“identification card”, in relation to an authorised officer, means
   an identification card issued under section 18 to the
   authorised officer;

“import” means to bring or cause to be brought into the customs
   territory by land, water or air from —

          (a) any place outside Singapore; or

          (b) a free trade zone,

          but does not include to tranship or to transit;

“import approval” means an import approval under
   section 5(2)(a);

“limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by the
   Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

“notice” does not include giving notice orally;

“offence under this Act” includes an offence under any
   regulations;

“personal mobility device” or “PMD” means —

          (a) a wheeled vehicle that —

          (i) is built to transport people only (with or
              without carry‑on baggage);

          (ii) is suitable for use on land other than a railway;
               and

          (iii) is propelled by an electric motor attached to the
                vehicle or by human power and such a motor;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
   Small Motorised Vehicles

5  (Safety) Act 2020                                        2020 Ed.

   (b) a partly assembled and substantially complete
        vehicle that would otherwise be covered by
        paragraph (a) if fully assembled and completed; or

   (c) an unassembled or a completely knocked‑down
       vehicle that would otherwise be covered by
       paragraph (a) if fully assembled and completed,

   but does not include a power‑assisted bicycle, trolley, inline
   skates or a wheeled toy, and such other vehicle as the Minister
   may, by order in the Gazette, exclude from this definition;

   “power-assisted bicycle” or “PAB” means —

   (a) a bicycle that —

   (i) is equipped with an electric motor; and

   (ii) may be propelled by human power or by the
        electric motor with which it is equipped, or by
        both;

   (b) a partly assembled and substantially complete
        vehicle that would otherwise be covered by
        paragraph (a) if fully assembled and completed; or

   (c) an unassembled or a completely knocked‑down
       vehicle that would otherwise be covered by
       paragraph (a) if fully assembled and completed;

   “premises” means a building or structure (whether permanent or
      temporary) or part of a building or structure;

   “regulations” means regulations made under section 27;

   “small motorised vehicle” means —

   (a) a personal mobility device;

   (b) a power-assisted bicycle; or

   (c) a type of motorised vehicle intended ordinarily for
       use on land (other than railway) to transport people or
       people and goods, that is prescribed as a small
       motorised vehicle for the purposes of this Act;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
          Small Motorised Vehicles

2020 Ed.  (Safety) Act 2020                                        6

“tranship” means to bring any goods into the customs territory
   solely for the purpose of taking them out of the customs
   territory (whether on the same conveyance on which they
   were brought in or on another conveyance) where the goods
   are landed and kept at any place in the customs territory
   pending their being taken out of the customs territory;

“transit” means to bring goods into the customs territory from a
   place outside the customs territory for the purpose of taking
   them out of the customs territory on the same conveyance on
   which they were brought into the customs territory;

“unsafe device” means a small motorised vehicle that does not
   comply with the safety requirements prescribed for that class
   or description of small motorised vehicle;

                                                                        [Act 5 of 2026 wef 01/06/2026]

“vessel” includes any ship or boat or other description of vessel
   used in navigation on water.

 (2) Unless expressly provided otherwise in this Act, any word or
expression in this Act that is defined in section 2(1) of the Active
Mobility Act 2017 has the meaning given to it by that section.

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, any notice or other document that is
required by or under this Act to be sent or given to the Authority is
taken to be sent or given only when it is actually received by the
Authority.

Purposes of Act

 3. The purposes of this Act are to provide consumers in Singapore
with a choice of small motorised vehicles that meet safety standards
and that are able to make use of technological advancements by —

       (a) prohibiting the import into Singapore of small motorised
            vehicles that do not comply with vehicle standards (except
            in limited circumstances);

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2026 wef 01/06/2026]

      (aa) prohibiting the keeping of unsafe devices; and

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2026 wef 01/06/2026]

       (b) distinguishing those which are non‑compliant.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
   Small Motorised Vehicles

7                     (Safety) Act 2020                     2020 Ed.

Act binds Government

   4.—(1) This Act binds the Government.

   (2) However, nothing in this Act —

   (a) renders the Government liable to prosecution for an
        offence under this Act; or

   (b) prevents any public officer from exercising his or her
        powers or carrying out his or her duties under this Act or
        any other written law.

 (3) To avoid doubt, no person is immune from prosecution for any
offence under this Act by reason only that the person is engaged to
provide services to or on behalf of the Government.

                                    PART 2
                           IMPORT CONTROLS
Importing small motorised vehicle needs approval
 5.—(1) A person commits an offence if —
       (a) the person imports a small motorised vehicle; and
       (b) at the time of import, the person is not permitted to import
            the small motorised vehicle.
 (2) A person is permitted to import a small motorised vehicle if —
       (a) at the time of import, all of the following apply:
               (i) the person is granted an import approval;
              (ii) the import approval is in force;
             (iii) the small motorised vehicle is specified or described
                   in the import approval;
       (b) at the time of import, all of the following apply:
               (i) the person is authorised, in writing, by the person
                   who is granted an import approval to import the
                   small motorised vehicle;
              (ii) the import approval is in force;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
          Small Motorised Vehicles

2020 Ed.  (Safety) Act 2020                                        8

          (iii) the small motorised vehicle is specified or described
                in the import approval; or

          (c) at the time of import, a circumstance prescribed in the
              regulations applies.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

(a) where the person is an individual —

          (i) to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for
              a term not exceeding 6 months or to both; but

          (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender, to a fine not
               exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
               exceeding 12 months or to both; or

(b) in any other case —

          (i) to a fine not exceeding $10,000; but

          (ii) where the person is a repeat offender, to a fine not
               exceeding $20,000.

(4) In subsection (3), “repeat offender” means a person who —

(a) is convicted, or found guilty, of an offence under
     subsection (1) (called the current offence); and

(b) has been convicted or found guilty, on at least one other
     earlier occasion within the period of 5 years immediately
     before the date on which the person is convicted or found
     guilty of the current offence, of the same offence.

Approvals for import

 6. An import approval for the import of any small motorised
vehicle, and the transfer of such approval, may be applied for, and
granted or refused by the Authority, only in accordance with the
regulations.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
   Small Motorised Vehicles

9  (Safety) Act 2020                                        2020 Ed.

Cancellation of import approval

 7.—(1) The Authority may, in the prescribed manner, cancel an
import approval for the import of a small motorised vehicle if the
Authority —

   (a) becomes aware of a circumstance that would have required
        or permitted the Authority to refuse to grant the approval,
        had it been aware of the circumstance immediately before
        granting the approval;

   (b) is satisfied that a condition of the approval for the import of
        the small motorised vehicle has been contravened or is
        being contravened; or

   (c) is satisfied that the approval was granted as a result of any
       declaration, statement, representation or information
       which is false in a material particular.

 (2) Where the Authority cancels under subsection (1) an import
approval granted to a person, the person may, if aggrieved by that
decision, appeal to the Minister against the decision, within a
prescribed period after the date the decision appealed against is given
to the person, and in accordance with the regulations.

 (3) The Minister may reject an appeal of an appellant who fails to
comply with subsection (2).

   (4) After considering an appeal, the Minister may —

   (a) reject the appeal and confirm the decision appealed
        against; or

   (b) allow the appeal and reverse the decision appealed against.

   (5) The Minister’s decision on an appeal is final.

 (6) Every appellant must be notified of the Minister’s decision
under subsection (5).

 (7) An appeal under subsection (2) against a decision of the
Authority under subsection (1) does not affect the operation of the
decision appealed against or prevent the taking of action to
implement the decision, and unless otherwise directed by the

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
          Small Motorised Vehicles

2020 Ed.  (Safety) Act 2020                                        10

Minister under this subsection, the decision appealed against must be
complied with until the determination of the appeal.

 (8) In this section, “Minister”, in relation to any appeal under
subsection (2), includes a Second Minister, Minister of State or
Parliamentary Secretary designated by the Minister to hear that
appeal.

Breach of purpose of imported vehicle

 8.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person is granted an import approval to import a small
            motorised vehicle for a purpose specified in the import
            approval that —

               (i) is not a sale, letting for hire or other distribution by
                   way of trade of the vehicle in Singapore; and

              (ii) is not one that requires the person to export or
                   destroy the vehicle; and

       (b) the person intentionally or negligently uses, or allows to be
            used, the small motorised vehicle for another purpose.

 (2) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person is granted an import approval to import a small
            motorised vehicle for a purpose specified in the import
            approval that requires the person to export or destroy the
            vehicle; and

       (b) the person intentionally or negligently does not export or
            destroy or cause the export or destruction of the small
            motorised vehicle within the period specified in the import
            approval.

 (3) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person is granted an import approval to import a small
            motorised vehicle subject to a condition that does not
            require the person to export or destroy the vehicle; and

       (b) the person intentionally or negligently contravenes or fails
            to comply with the condition.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
    Small Motorised Vehicles

11  (Safety) Act 2020                                        2020 Ed.

 (4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1), (2) or
(3) shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) where the person is an individual —

    (i) to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for
        a term not exceeding 3 months or to both; but

    (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender, to a fine not
         exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 6 months or to both; or

    (b) in any other case —

    (i) to a fine not exceeding $5,000; but

    (ii) where the person is a repeat offender, to a fine not
         exceeding $10,000.

(5) In subsection (4), “repeat offender” means a person who —

    (a) is convicted, or found guilty, of an offence under
         subsection (1), (2) or (3) (called the current offence); and

    (b) has been convicted or found guilty, on at least one other
         earlier occasion within the period of 5 years immediately
         before the date on which the person is convicted or found
         guilty of the current offence, of the same offence.

 (6) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (1) or (3), it is a
defence to the charge for the accused to prove, on a balance of
probabilities, that —

    (a) the use of the small motorised vehicle for another purpose
         was authorised by the Authority; or

    (b) the contravention or failure to comply with a condition of
         an import approval was authorised by the Authority.

                    PART 2A
    KEEPING OF UNSAFE DEVICES

                                                         [Act 5 of 2026 wef 01/06/2026]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
          Small Motorised Vehicles

2020 Ed.               (Safety) Act 2020                           12

Keeping unsafe device

 8A.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person, without
reasonable excuse, keeps an unsafe device at any place knowing that,
or reckless as to whether, the device is an unsafe device.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

(a) where the person is an individual —

          (i) to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for
              a term not exceeding 3 months or to both; but

          (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender, to a fine not
               exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
               exceeding 6 months or to both; or

(b) in any other case —

          (i) to a fine not exceeding $4,000; but

          (ii) where the person is a repeat offender, to a fine not
               exceeding $10,000.

(3) In subsection (2), “repeat offender” means a person who —

(a) is convicted, or found guilty, of an offence under
     subsection (1) (called the current offence); and

(b) has been convicted or found guilty, on at least one other
     earlier occasion within the period of 5 years immediately
     before the date on which the person is convicted or found
     guilty of the current offence, of the same offence.

                                                                      [Act 5 of 2026 wef 01/06/2026]

Presumption of keeping unsafe device

 8B.—(1) For the purpose of section 8A —

       (a) if there is a registered owner of the unsafe device — the
            registered owner is presumed, unless the contrary is
            proved, to be keeping the unsafe device;

       (b) if paragraph (a) does not apply and the unsafe device is in
            the immediate possession of a person — the person is

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
    Small Motorised Vehicles

13                     (Safety) Act 2020                     2020 Ed.

    presumed, unless the contrary is proved, to be keeping the
    unsafe device; and

    (c) if paragraphs (a) and (b) do not apply and the unsafe device
        is found within any premises (other than any excluded
        premises) — the occupier of the premises is presumed,
        unless the contrary is proved, to be keeping the unsafe
        device.

(2) In this section —

    “excluded premises” means any common property within the
       meaning of section 2(1) of the Town Councils Act 1988, any
       public place within the meaning of section 2(1) of the Shared
       Mobility Enterprises (Control and Licensing) Act 2020 or
       any prescribed premises;

    “registered owner”, in relation to an unsafe device, means —

    (a) if the unsafe device is a registrable personal mobility
         device — the person who is recorded in the
         registrable PMD register as the registered
         responsible person for that device at the relevant
         time;

    (b) if the unsafe device is a power‑assisted bicycle — the
         person who is registered as the owner of the
         power‑assisted bicycle under the Road Traffic Act
         1961 at the relevant time;

    (c) if the unsafe device is a registrable mobility vehicle
        — the person who is recorded in the registrable MV
        register as the registered responsible person for that
        vehicle at the relevant time; and

    (d) if the unsafe device is a registrable personal mobility
         device the registration of which under Part 3A of the
         Active Mobility Act 2017 is cancelled, a
         power‑assisted bicycle the registration of which
         under the Road Traffic Act 1961 is cancelled, or a
         registrable mobility vehicle the registration of which
         under Part 3B of the Active Mobility Act 2017 is
         cancelled — the following person, as applicable:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
          Small Motorised Vehicles

2020 Ed.  (Safety) Act 2020                                        14

          (i) the person who is last recorded in the
              registrable PMD register as the registered
              responsible person for that device;

          (ii) the person who is last recorded as the owner for
               that power‑assisted bicycle under the Road
               Traffic Act 1961;

          (iii) the person who is last recorded in the
                registrable MV register as the registered
                responsible person for that mobility vehicle.

                                                              [Act 5 of 2026 wef 01/06/2026]

                                    PART 3

                              ENFORCEMENT

Purpose for which enforcement powers are exercisable by
authorised officers

 9.—(1) An authorised officer may exercise the powers set out in
sections 10 and 11 for any of the following purposes:

       (a) to investigate an offence under this Act reasonably
            believed to have been committed;

       (b) to determine compliance with any condition of an import
            approval for the import of any small motorised vehicle;

       (c) to determine whether information provided to the
            Authority under this Act is correct;

       (d) to investigate whether there are grounds for taking any
            action under section 7 against a person granted an import
            approval.

 (2) To avoid doubt, nothing in this Part limits section 39 of the Land
Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995 with respect to an offence
under this Act.

Powers of entry, etc., at premises

 10.—(1) An authorised officer may, subject to subsection (2), enter
and inspect any relevant premises and do all or any of the following:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
    Small Motorised Vehicles

15  (Safety) Act 2020                                        2020 Ed.

    (a) to examine any thing or observe any activity conducted in
         or on the premises, including —

    (i) to detain any package, box, container or other thing
        in or on the premises until any person in charge of the
        package, box, container or thing has opened it for
        examination and search;

    (ii) to mark, lock, seal or otherwise secure the package,
         box, container or other thing pending examination
         and search; and

    (iii) if the thing appears to be a small motorised vehicle,
          to order any person in charge of the vehicle to deliver
          the vehicle (in that state it is found on the date of the
          order) for weighing or an inspection by a person and
          at a time and place specified by the authorised
          officer;

    (b) to search the premises and any thing in or on the premises;

    (c) to make a still or moving image or recording of the
        premises and any thing in or on the premises;

    (d) to inspect any document in the premises and take extracts
         from, or make copies of, any such document;

    (e) to take into or onto the premises such equipment and
        materials as the authorised officer requires for the purpose
        of exercising powers in relation to the premises;

    (f) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises;

    (g) to secure a thing for a period not exceeding 24 hours if the
         thing is found in or on the premises, where the authorised
         officer believes on reasonable grounds that —

    (i) the thing is evidential material relevant to an offence
        under this Act; and

    (ii) it is necessary to secure the thing in order to prevent
         it from being concealed, lost or destroyed before a
         warrant to seize the thing is obtained;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
          Small Motorised Vehicles

2020 Ed.  (Safety) Act 2020                                        16

(h) to seize any thing found in or on the premises which the
     authorised officer reasonably suspects is as described in
     paragraph (g)(i);

          (i) to require any relevant person, or any individual found in
              or on the relevant premises, to answer any question (to the
              best of that person’s or individual’s knowledge,
              information and belief) and to provide any document or
              information that the authorised officer reasonably requires
              for any of the purposes of section 9.

 (2) However, an authorised officer is not authorised by
subsection (1) —

(a) to enter and search any relevant premises that is a place of
     accommodation or residence, except —

          (i) with the consent of the occupier; or

          (ii) under a warrant of a Magistrate’s Court or District
               Court; or

(b) to seize any thing in or on any relevant premises unless the
     seizure is made under a warrant of a Magistrate’s Court or
     District Court, being a thing other than a vehicle or vehicle
     component mentioned in section 11.

 (3) A warrant mentioned in subsection (2) may be issued if a
Magistrate’s Court or District Court is satisfied that it is necessary for
the authorised officer to enter any relevant premises, search any
relevant premises or seize any thing (as the case may be) for any of
the purposes of section 9.

 (4) The power under subsection (1)(f) to operate electronic
equipment in or on any relevant premises includes the power —

(a) to use a disk, tape or other storage device that is in or on the
     premises and can be used with the equipment or in
     association with the equipment;

(b) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to put
     the relevant data in documentary form and remove the
     documents so produced from those premises; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
    Small Motorised Vehicles

17  (Safety) Act 2020                                        2020 Ed.

    (c) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to
        transfer the relevant data to a disk, tape or other storage
        device that —

    (i) is brought to the premises for the exercise of the
        power; or

    (ii) is in or on the premises and the use of which for that
         purpose has been agreed in writing by the occupier of
         the premises,

    (c) and to remove the disk, tape or other storage device from
        those premises.

 (5) The power under subsection (1)(g) to secure any thing which is
found during the exercise of enforcement powers in or on any
relevant premises includes the power —

    (a) to secure the thing by locking it up, placing a guard or any
         other means; and

    (b) to prohibit any person from dealing with such thing.

 (6) The power to require an individual to provide any document or
information under subsection (1)(i) includes the power —

    (a) to require that individual to provide an explanation of the
         document or information;

    (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
         that individual to state, to the best of the individual’s
         knowledge and belief, where it is; and

    (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
        form, to require the information to be made available to the
        authorised officer or the Authority in legible form.

 (7) The Authority is entitled without payment to keep any
document or information, or any copy or extract thereof, provided
to an authorised officer under subsection (1)(i).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
          Small Motorised Vehicles

2020 Ed.               (Safety) Act 2020                           18

(8) In this section —

“relevant person” means —

          (a) a person to whom an import approval is or was
               granted under this Act;

          (b) an individual who is or was an officer or a
               representative of a person mentioned in
               paragraph (a);

        (c) an individual who is or was an employee of a person
             mentioned in paragraph (a);

                                                                        [Act 5 of 2026 wef 01/06/2026]

        (d) a person whom an authorised officer suspects on
             reasonable grounds is or was an importer of small
             motorised vehicles, or an agent of such a person; or

                                                                        [Act 5 of 2026 wef 01/06/2026]

        (e) a person whom an authorised officer suspects on
             reasonable grounds is or was keeping an unsafe
             device, or an agent of such a person;

                                                                        [Act 5 of 2026 wef 01/06/2026]

“relevant premises” means any premises in Singapore that an
   authorised officer believes on reasonable grounds —

          (a) is used for or in connection with —

          (i) the import of small motorised vehicles; or

                  (ii) the storage or supply of small motorised
                       vehicles that are being, or are about to be, or
                       have recently been imported;

                                                                         [Act 5 of 2026 wef 01/06/2026]

          (aa) is used for or in connection with the keeping of an
                unsafe device; or

                                                                         [Act 5 of 2026 wef 01/06/2026]

           (b) is under the control or management of a relevant
                person in paragraph (a), (d) or (e) (as the case may
                be) of the definition of “relevant person”.

                                                                         [Act 5 of 2026 wef 01/06/2026]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
    Small Motorised Vehicles

19                       (Safety) Act 2020                   2020 Ed.

Power to seize vehicles

 11.—(1) Where an authorised officer has reason to believe that a
small motorised vehicle or vehicle component is a vehicle or
component in connection with which an offence under section 5, 8
or 8A has been or is being committed, the authorised officer may,
without warrant —

    (a) seize the vehicle or vehicle component and take it to a
         holding yard; or

       (b) require the owner or person in charge of the vehicle or
            vehicle component to take the vehicle or component (as the
            case may be) to and surrender it at a specified holding yard.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2026 wef 01/06/2026]

 (2) The power conferred on an authorised officer under
subsection (1)(a) may be exercised whether or not the owner or
person in charge of the vehicle or vehicle component is present at the
time of its seizure.

 (3) When a vehicle or vehicle component is seized under this
section by an authorised officer, the authorised officer concerned
must, as soon as practicable, give notice of the seizure and the
grounds of doing so to the owner of the vehicle or component
(if known) except that the notice is not required to be given where the
seizure is made in the presence of the owner or the owner’s agent.

 (4) A person who, without reasonable excuse, refuses or neglects to
comply with any requirement under subsection (1)(b) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$1,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both.

Offence of non-compliance, etc.

 12.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person —

       (a) without prior permission of an authorised officer, opens,
            breaks, alters or removes any mark, lock, seal or other
            safeguard used to secure a package, box, container or other
            thing under section 10(1)(a)(ii) or (g)(ii); or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
          Small Motorised Vehicles

2020 Ed.  (Safety) Act 2020                                        20

(b) without reasonable excuse, fails to do anything required of
     the person by an authorised officer under section 10(1).

 (2) A person commits an offence if the person intentionally alters,
suppresses or destroys any document or information which the person
has been required by an authorised officer under section 10(1)(i) to
provide.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (2) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (5) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is a
defence for the accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that —

(a) the person does not possess the document or information
     required; or

(b) the person has taken all reasonable steps available to the
     person to obtain the document or information required and
     has been unable to obtain it.

 (6) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of subsection (1), it is a
reasonable excuse for a person to refuse or fail to provide any
information, produce any document or answer any question if doing
so might tend to incriminate that person.

Offence of providing false information, etc.

 13.—(1) If —

       (a) a person provides a document, or makes a statement
            (whether orally, in writing or any other way) or gives
            information, to the Authority or an authorised officer;

       (b) the document, statement or information is false or
            misleading, or the statement or information omits any
            matter or thing without which the statement or information
            (as the case may be) is misleading;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
    Small Motorised Vehicles

21  (Safety) Act 2020                                        2020 Ed.

    (c) the person knows, or ought reasonably to know, that the
        document is false or misleading, or that the statement or
        information is as described in paragraph (b); and

    (d) the document is provided, or the statement is made or the
         information is given, for or in connection with —

    (i) an application for or relating to an import approval
        under this Act; or

    (ii) a question or request of the Authority or an
         authorised officer made under this Act,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the document, statement or
information —

    (a) is not false or misleading in a material particular; or

    (b) did not omit any matter or thing without which the
         statement or information (as the case may be) is misleading
         in a material particular.

Composition of offences

 14.—(1) The Chief Executive of the Authority, or any employee of
the Authority authorised in writing by the Authority for the purpose
of this section, may compound any offence under this Act that is
prescribed as a compoundable offence.

 (2) A compoundable offence may be compounded under this
section by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the
following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

 (3) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
          Small Motorised Vehicles

2020 Ed.  (Safety) Act 2020                                        22

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

Forfeiture of vehicles, etc.

 15.—(1) Subject to this section, all things seized or surrendered
under the provisions of this Act are liable to forfeiture by a court.

 (2) An order for the forfeiture may be made by the Authority in
respect of a vehicle or vehicle components seized or surrendered
under this Act if the Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) the vehicle is a non‑compliant personal mobility device,
            non‑compliant power‑assisted bicycle, non‑compliant
            mobility vehicle or unsafe device or the vehicle
            components if assembled result in a non‑compliant
            personal mobility device, non‑compliant power‑assisted
            bicycle, non‑compliant mobility vehicle or unsafe device;

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2026 wef 01/06/2026]

       (b) an offence under this Act has been committed and the
            vehicle was or vehicle components were the subject matter,
            or was or were used in the commission, of the offence;

       (c) at the end of 30 days after the date of the seizure or
            surrender, no claim to the vehicle or vehicle components is
            earlier made in the prescribed manner to the Authority by a
            person who is none of the following:

               (i) the person from whom the vehicle was or vehicle
                   components were seized;

              (ii) the person required to surrender the vehicle or
                   vehicle components;

             (iii) an agent of a person in sub‑paragraph (i) or (ii); and

       (d) a person is convicted of the offence, or a person reasonably
            suspected of having committed the offence has that offence
            compounded under section 14.

 (3) Despite subsection (2), the Authority may at once order the
forfeiture of a vehicle or vehicle components seized or surrendered
under this Act —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
    Small Motorised Vehicles

23  (Safety) Act 2020                                        2020 Ed.

    (a) that is a non‑compliant personal mobility device,
         non‑compliant power‑assisted bicycle, non‑compliant
         mobility vehicle or unsafe device, or that if assembled
         result in a non‑compliant personal mobility device,
         non‑compliant power‑assisted bicycle, non‑compliant
         mobility vehicle or unsafe device; and

                                                                          [Act 5 of 2026 wef 01/06/2026]

    (b) that the Authority considers is of such a nature or in such
         condition that it would be dangerous to retain custody, or
         the detention of the vehicle or vehicle components in a
         holding yard materially increases the likelihood of an
         outbreak of fire at the holding yard.

 (4) Sections 51, 52 and 53 of the Active Mobility Act 2017 apply to
a vehicle or vehicle components seized or surrendered under this Act
in the same way as those sections apply to a vehicle seized or
surrendered under section 50 of that Act.

                                    PART 4

                            ADMINISTRATION

Administration of Act

 16. It is the function of the Authority to administer and enforce this
Act.

Authorised officers

 17.—(1) The Authority may, in relation to any provision of this Act,
appoint as authorised officers for the purposes of that provision from
among any of the following who are suitably trained to be authorised
officers:

       (a) any individual performing duties in the Authority;

       (b) any auxiliary police officer appointed under the Police
            Force Act 2004.

 (2) The Authority may, for any reason that appears to it to be
sufficient, at any time revoke an individual’s appointment as an
authorised officer.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
          Small Motorised Vehicles

2020 Ed.  (Safety) Act 2020                                        24

 (3) The Authority may delegate the exercise of all or any of the
powers conferred or duties imposed upon it by any provision of this
Act (except the power of delegation conferred by this subsection) to
an authorised officer, subject to such conditions or limitations as set
out in this Act or as the Authority may specify; and any reference in
that provision of this Act to the Authority includes a reference to such
an authorised officer.

 (4) Any delegation under subsection (3) may be general or in a
particular case and may be subject to such conditions or limitations as
set out in this Act or as the Authority may specify.

 (5) A reference in this section to an individual performing duties in
the Authority is a reference to —

(a) an employee of the Authority; or

(b) a public officer performing duties in the Authority under a
     secondment arrangement making available temporarily to
     the Authority the services of public officers.

Identification cards and equipment

 18.—(1) The Authority must issue to each authorised officer an
identification card.

 (2) Every authorised officer whose appointment as such ceases
must return to the Authority any identification card issued to him or
her under subsection (1).

 (3) An authorised officer must produce his or her identification card
for inspection —

       (a) before exercising a power under this Act; and

       (b) at any time during the exercise of a power under this Act, if
            asked to do so.

 (4) Every authorised officer is to be issued with such equipment, or
such description of equipment, as the Authority may determine to be
necessary for the effectual discharge of the duties of an authorised
officer.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
    Small Motorised Vehicles

25  (Safety) Act 2020                                        2020 Ed.

Obstructing authorised officers, etc.

 19.—(1) A person who refuses to give access to, or obstructs,
hinders or delays an authorised officer in the discharge of his or her
duties under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (2) However, it is not an offence under subsection (1) for any
person to refuse to comply with any request, demand or order made or
given by an authorised officer who —

    (a) fails to declare his or her office; and

    (b) refuses to produce his or her identification card on demand
         being made by that person.

                                    PART 5

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Preservation of secrecy

 20.—(1) An individual who is or has been an authorised officer
must not disclose any information relating to the affairs of the
Authority or of any other person which has been obtained by the
individual in the performance of his or her duties or the exercise of his
or her functions under this Act, except —

       (a) for the purpose of the performance of his or her duties or
            the exercise of his or her functions under this Act; or

       (b) when lawfully required or allowed to do so by any court or
            under the provisions of any written law.

 (2) An individual who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
          Small Motorised Vehicles

2020 Ed.  (Safety) Act 2020                                        26

Protection from personal liability

 21. No liability shall lie against an authorised officer for anything
done or intended to be done with reasonable care and in good faith in
the execution or purported execution of this Act.

Offences by corporations

 22.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                   type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                   take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                   commission of that offence,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
    Small Motorised Vehicles

27                     (Safety) Act 2020                     2020 Ed.

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

    (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

    (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
         regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

    “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership;

    “director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
       Companies Act 1967;

    “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
       partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
       officer of the corporation, and includes —

    (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

    (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
         members, any of those members as if the member
         were a director of the corporation;

    “reasonable steps”, in relation to the commission of an offence,
       includes, but is not limited to, such action (if any) of the
       following kinds as is reasonable in all the circumstances:

    (a) action towards —

    (i) assessing the corporation’s compliance with
        the provision creating the offence; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
          Small Motorised Vehicles

2020 Ed.  (Safety) Act 2020                                        28

          (ii) ensuring that the corporation arranged regular
               professional assessments of its compliance
               with the provision;

          (b) action towards ensuring that the corporation’s
               employees, agents and contractors are provided
               with information, training, instruction and
               supervision appropriate to them to enable them to
               comply with the provision creating the offence so far
               as the provision is relevant to them;

          (c) action towards ensuring that —

          (i) the equipment and other resources; and

          (ii) the structures, work systems and other
               processes,

          (c) relevant to compliance with the provision creating
              the offence are appropriate in all the circumstances;

          (d) action towards creating and maintaining a corporate
               culture that does not direct, encourage, tolerate or
               lead to non‑compliance with the provision creating
               the offence;

“state of mind” of a person includes —

          (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
               of the person; and

          (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
               or purpose.

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with such modifications as the Minister
considers appropriate, to any corporation formed or recognised under
the law of a territory outside Singapore.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 23.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
                  Small Motorised Vehicles

29                (Safety) Act 2020                          2020 Ed.

    (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
         partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
         or her actual or apparent authority; and

    (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

    (a) who is —

    (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
        member of its governing body;

    (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

    (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
          unincorporated association or partnership and in a
          position to influence the conduct of the
          unincorporated association or partnership (as the
          case may be) in relation to the commission of the
          offence; and

    (b) who —

    (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
        effect the commission of the offence;

    (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
         knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
         commission of the offence by the unincorporated
         association or partnership; or

    (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
          offence by the unincorporated association or
          partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
          be or is being committed, and failed to take all
          reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
          that offence,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
          Small Motorised Vehicles

2020 Ed.               (Safety) Act 2020                           30

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
     regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

“officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
   a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
   member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
   and includes —

          (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
               president, secretary or member of a committee of the
               unincorporated association; and

          (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

“reasonable steps” has the meaning given by section 22;

“state of mind” of a person includes —

          (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
               of the person; and

          (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
               or purpose.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
    Small Motorised Vehicles

31  (Safety) Act 2020                                        2020 Ed.

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with such modifications as the Minister
considers appropriate, to any unincorporated association or
partnership formed or recognised under the law of a territory
outside Singapore.

Jurisdiction of courts

 24. Despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, a District Court or a
Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act
and has power to impose the full punishment for any such offence.

Service of documents

 25.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
given to or served on a person may be given or served as described in
this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be given to or
served on an individual may be given or served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by post to the address specified by the
            individual for the service of documents or, if no address is
            so specified, the individual’s residential address or
            business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual; or

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
          Small Motorised Vehicles

2020 Ed.  (Safety) Act 2020                                        32

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be given to or
served on a partnership (other than a limited liability partnership)
may be given or served —

(a) by giving it to any partner, secretary or other similar officer
     of the partnership;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the
     partnership’s business address;

          (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
              partnership’s business address; or

(d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
     address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be given to or
served on a body corporate (including a limited liability partnership)
or an unincorporated association may be given or served —

(a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
     body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
     limited liability partnership’s manager;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the registered
     office or principal office in Singapore of the body
     corporate or unincorporated association;

          (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the registered
              office or principal office in Singapore of the body
              corporate or unincorporated association; or

(d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
     corporate or unincorporated association.

 (5) In addition, a document (other than a summons) permitted or
required by this Act to be given to or served on an individual, a
partnership, a body corporate or an unincorporated association may
be given or served —

(a) by giving an electronic notice to the individual,
     partnership, body corporate or unincorporated
     association (called in this section an addressee) by the
     addressee’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
     document is available and how the addressee may use the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
    Small Motorised Vehicles

33                     (Safety) Act 2020                     2020 Ed.

    addressee’s chosen means of access to access the
    document’s contents; or

    (b) by any other method authorised by regulations made under
         this Act for the service of documents of that kind if the
         addressee consents (expressly or impliedly) to service of a
         document of that kind in that way.

(6) The giving or serving of a document takes effect —

    (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
         successful transmission is received, on the day of
         transmission;

    (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
         becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
         it is sent; and

    (c) if the document is sent by post, 2 days after the day the
        document was posted (even if it is returned undelivered).

 (7) However, the giving or serving of any document under this Act
on a person by email or by an electronic notice at the person’s chosen
means of notification, may be effected only with the person’s prior
consent (express or implied) to service in that way.

 (8) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

(9) In this section —

    “business address” means —

    (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
         last known place of business in Singapore; or

    (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
         liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
         last known place of business in Singapore;

    “chosen means of access”, for an addressee to or on whom is or
       is to be given or served a document permitted or required by
       this Act, means an electronic means the addressee agrees
       with the person giving or serving the document as the means
       by which the addressee may access that document’s contents;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
          Small Motorised Vehicles

2020 Ed.  (Safety) Act 2020                                        34

“chosen means of notification”, for an addressee to or on whom
   is or is to be given or served a document permitted or required
   by this Act, means an electronic means that the addressee
   nominates to the person giving or serving the document as the
   means by which the addressee may be notified that such a
   document has been given to or served on the addressee;

“document” includes a notice or an order permitted or required
   by this Act to be given or served;

“last email address” means the last email address given by the
   addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
   document as the email address for the service of documents
   under this Act;

“residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
   place of residence in Singapore.

General exemption

 26. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person
or class of persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act, either
generally or in a particular case and subject to such conditions as the
Minister may impose.

Regulations

 27.—(1) The Authority, with the approval of the Minister, may
make regulations necessary or convenient to be prescribed for
carrying out or giving effect to this Act.

 (2) In particular, the Authority, with the approval of the Minister,
may make regulations for any of the following:

       (a) the grant of import approvals in relation to the import of
            small motorised vehicles;

       (b) the manner in which, and the time within which, an
            application for the grant of import approvals in relation to
            the import of small motorised vehicles is to be made,
            including —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
    Small Motorised Vehicles

35  (Safety) Act 2020                                        2020 Ed.

    (i) the information that may be required, and the
        conditions to be satisfied, for the grant of an
        import approval; and

    (ii) the disqualification or debarment of persons for an
         import approval;

    (c) the conditions of import approvals that are conditions of
        general application;

    (d) the variation, suspension or cancellation of import
         approvals;

    (e) the labelling or marking of small motorised vehicles
        imported;

    (f) the duties of persons granted import approvals in relation
        to the import of small motorised vehicles, including the
        keeping of records and the provision of returns and other
        information with respect to the import of such vehicles;

    (g) the fees to be paid in respect of applications for the grant of
         import approvals and otherwise in connection with the
         administration of this Act, and for the waiver, reduction or
         refund of fees charged;

    (ga) the safety requirements for a small motorised vehicle of
          any class or description;

                                                                            [Act 5 of 2026 wef 01/06/2026]

     (h) the offences under this Act that may be compounded.

(3) Regulations made under this section may —

    (a) make different provisions with respect to different classes
         of small motorised vehicles, applicants for import
         approvals and importers of such vehicles;

    (b) create offences for a contravention of any of the
         regulations, which may be punishable with a fine not
         exceeding $10,000 or imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 12 months or both; and

    (c) provide for such saving, transitional, and other
        consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions as
        are necessary or expedient for the purposes of this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
          Small Motorised Vehicles

2020 Ed.  (Safety) Act 2020                                        36

Presentation to Parliament

 28. All subsidiary legislation made under this Act must be
presented to Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the
Gazette.

                                    PART 6

 AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS AND FINAL PROVISION

 29. [Repealed by Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Saving and transitional provision

 30. For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of any
provision of this Act, the Minister may, by regulations, prescribe such
additional provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on
the enactment of that provision as the Minister may consider
necessary or expedient.

                                                                               [32

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
                LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

           SMALL MOTORISED VEHICLES
                   (SAFETY) ACT 2020

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 25 of 2020 — Small Motorised Vehicles (Safety) Act 2020

Bill           : 21/2020

First Reading  : 4 May 2020

Second and Third Readings : 26 May 2020

Commencement   : 1 April 2021 (sections 29(c) and (d),
                     30 and 31)
                     28 June 2021 (except paragraph (c) of
                     the definition of “personal mobility
                     device” or “PMD” in section 2(1),
                     paragraph (c) of the definition of
                     “power‑assisted bicycle” or “PAB” in
                     section 2(1) and sections 29(c), (d)
                     and (e), 30 and 31)

2. 2020 Revised Edition — Small Motorised Vehicles
                                    (Safety) Act 2020

Operation      : 31 December 2021

3. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 24/2022

First Reading  : 12 September 2022

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 2022

Commencement   : 1 November 2022

4. Act 5 of 2026 — Land Transport and Related Matters Act 2026
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 1/2026

First Reading  : 12 January 2026

Second and Third Readings : 4 February 2026

Commencement   : 1 June 2026

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
.                                 ii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
      COMPARATIVE TABLE

SMALL MOTORISED VEHICLES
        (SAFETY) ACT 2020

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                  2020 Ed.                    Act 25 of 2020
1—(1) and (2)                   1
[Omitted as having had effect]  30
[Omitted as having had effect]  31
30                              32

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/6/2026
