   THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
CIVIL AVIATION AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE ACT 2009

                                                 2020 REVISED EDITION

                       This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
            including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                                  Prepared and Published by
                                          THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                              UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                                 THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
                                                                   2020 Ed.

         Civil Aviation Authority of
             Singapore Act 2009

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                              PART 1
                         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Airports
     2.
     3.

                                        PART 2

                   RECONSTITUTION, FUNCTIONS AND
                           POWERS OF AUTHORITY

 4. Reconstitution of Authority
 5. Common seal
 6. Constitution of Authority
 7. Functions and duties of Authority
 8. Powers of Authority
 9. Directions by Minister
10. Appointment of committees and delegation
11. Chief Executive, officers and employees, etc.
12. [Repealed]
13. Protection from personal liability
14. Preservation of secrecy
15. Financial year
16. Revenue and property of Authority
17. Grants
18. Borrowing powers
19. Issue of shares, etc.
20. Power of investment
21. [Repealed]
22. [Repealed]
23. [Repealed]

                         1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        2

Section
   24. Symbol, design or representation of Authority
   25. Restrictions on disposal of lands of Authority

          PART 2A

          FUNDS

25A.      Changi Airport Development Fund
25B.      Purposes of Changi Airport Development Fund
25C.      SAF Fund
25D.      Purposes of SAF Fund

                                        PART 3

                   TRANSFER OF PROPERTIES, RIGHTS,
                     LIABILITIES AND EMPLOYEES TO
                             SUCCESSOR COMPANY

26. Transfer date
27. Transfer of airport undertaking to successor company
28. Transfer of employees to successor company
29. Service rights, etc., of transferred employees to be preserved
30. Existing contracts
31. Pending proceedings
32. Continuation and completion of disciplinary proceedings
33. Misconduct or neglect of duty by employee before transfer
34. No breach or default because of corporatisation of airport

         undertaking
35. Sale of successor company

                                        PART 4

            LICENSING AND MANAGEMENT OF AIRPORTS

                           Division 1 — Airport licences

36. Licence authorising operation of airport
37. Conditions of airport licence
38. Modification of conditions of airport licence
39. Revocation or suspension, etc., of airport licence
40. Security deposit against contraventions by airport licensee
41. Restriction on transfer of airport licence
42. Airport licensee not to carry on non-airport business
43. Exemption from requiring airport licence

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
         Civil Aviation Authority of

3        Singapore Act 2009                                           2020 Ed.

         Division 2 — Codes of practice and
               standards of performance

Section  Codes of practice or standards of performance
         Directions affecting airport licensee
   44.   [Repealed]
   45.
   46.

         Division 2A — Reserve fund

   46A. Reserve fund
   46B. Appeal to Minister
   46C. Section 46A duty not discharged by financial penalty

         Division 3 — Airport development

   47. Master plan for each airport
   48. Approval of master plan for airport
   49. Major airport development in accordance with master plan
   50. Saving of operation of other written laws

         Division 4 — Charges, accounts and records

   51. Charges
   52. Maximum prices for aeronautical charges
   53. Accounts and statements
   54. Record-keeping and giving information on quality of service

         Division 5 — Appeals

   55. Appeal to Minister
   56. Appeals Advisory Panel

                               PART 5

                          CONTROL OF OWNERSHIP AND
               MANAGEMENT, ETC., OF AIRPORT LICENSEES

                            AND DESIGNATED ENTITIES

                               Division 1 — Interpretation

   56A. Interpretation of this Part
   56B. Meaning of “5% controller”
   56C. What holding an equity interest means
   56D. Meanings of “associate”, “related corporation”, “subsidiary”

            and “holding company”

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                                  4

Division 2 — Control of ownership and management, etc., of airport licensees and
                                 designated business trusts

Section   Control of equity interest or voting control in airport licensee
   57.    Acquisition of airport licensee as going concern
   58.    Appointment of chief executive officer, director, etc., of airport
   59.    licensee
          Remedial directions
   60.    Effect of remedial directions
   61.    Head office to be in Singapore
   62.    Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc., of airport licensees
   62A.   and designated business trusts
          Non-application and modification of Division 2 provisions in
   62B.   relation to Class 1 designated operating entities

Division 3 — Control of ownership and management, etc., of designated entities

          Subdivision (1) — Preliminary

63. Extraterritorial application of this Division

          Subdivision (2) — Designation of entities

64. Designation of designated operating entities and designated
         equity interest holders

          Subdivision (3) — Control of designated entities

65.       Notice to Authority by 5% controller of Class 2 designated
66.       operating entity or designated equity interest holder
67.       Approvals of Authority in relation to equity interests and control
67A.      of voting power in designated entities in certain cases
67B.      Appointment of chief executive officer, chairperson, director,
67C.      etc., of designated entity
67D.      Acquisition of business of designated operating entity as going
          concern
          Occurrence of certain events
          Duty of designated entity or trustee-manager to report changes
          of equity and control of certain persons
          Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc., of designated
          operating entities

          Subdivision (4) — Remedial directions

67E. Remedial directions relating to section 66
67F. Effect of remedial directions issued under section 67E, etc.
67G. Remedial directions relating to section 67

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
   Civil Aviation Authority of

5  Singapore Act 2009                                                2020 Ed.

Section
   67H. Remedial directions relating to section 67A
   67I. Other provisions relating to remedial directions

   Subdivision (5) — Business continuity

   67J. Business continuity of designated operating entities

   Subdivision (6) — Appeals under this Division

   67K. Appeal to Minister
   67L. Designation of others to hear appeals under this Division

   Subdivision (7) — Penalties

   67M. Penalties under this Division

                                           PART 6

                                AIRPORT OPERATIONS

   68. By-laws
   68A. Powers to ensure compliance with by-laws, etc.
   69. Relocation of abandoned aircraft, etc.
   69A. Disposal of unclaimed aircraft, vehicle, etc.
   70. Access to airport for defence-related purposes, etc.
   71. Compensation for access to airport for defence-related purposes,

            etc.

                                          PART 6A

                      AIRPORT CAPACITY MANAGEMENT

                                   Division 1 — General

   71A. Purpose of this Part
   71B. Interpretation of this Part
   71C. Coordinated airport and schedules facilitated airport
   71D. Appointment of slots coordinator and schedules facilitator
   71E. No unauthorised slots coordinator and schedules facilitator
   71F. Information gathering by slots coordinator and schedules

            facilitator

                           Division 2 — Coordinated airports

   71G. Slots management scheme
   71H. Effect of slots allocation
   71I. Directions by slots coordinator
   71J. Sanctions for non-compliance with slots allocation, etc.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                              6

          Division 3 — Schedules facilitated airports

Section
   71K. Sanctions for schedules facilitated airport

          Division 4 — Appeals and enforcement of sanctions

71L. Appeal against sanctions
71M. Recovery of pecuniary penalty, etc.

          PART 7

          SPECIAL ADMINISTRATION ORDERS AND
             SCHEMES OF TRANSFERS, ETC., FOR
              AIRPORT LICENSEES, DESIGNATED
            BUSINESS TRUSTS AND DESIGNATED
                        OPERATING ENTITIES

72.       Interpretation of this Part
73.       Meaning and purposes of special administration order
74.       Power to make special administration order and other orders
75.       Ancillary directions, etc., when special administration order,
          etc., is made
75A.      Effect of special administration order and other orders
75B.      Duties of relevant entity or trustee-manager, etc.
75C.      Transfer of property, etc., of relevant entity under special
          administration order
75D.      Regulations for this Part

                                        PART 8

             MONITORING AND ENFORCEMENT POWERS

76. Authorised officers
77. Damage to Authority’s property
78. Obstructing employee, etc., of Authority
79. Consent of Public Prosecutor
80. Power to remove persons, etc., and arrest
81. Police officer may require evidence of identity
82. Power to obtain information
83. Restriction on disclosure of confidential information
84. Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
85. Composition of offences

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

7         Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

          PART 9

          LEVIES, FEES AND CHARGES

Section   Levy
          Other provisions relating to levy
   86.    Airport development levy
   87.    SAF levy
   87A.   Fees, charges and late payment penalties
   87B.   Statutory lien
   88.    Effect of statutory lien
   89.    Register of Statutory Liens
   90.    Seizure of aircraft
   91.    Sale or disposal of aircraft
   92.    Removal or dismantling of aircraft under statutory lien
   93.    Review of decisions
   94.
   95.

          PART 10

          MISCELLANEOUS

    96.   Application of Act to Government
    97.   Non-interference with procurement by airport licensee, etc.
    97A.  Advisory guidelines
    98.   Power to exempt
    99.   General penalty
   100.   Service of documents, etc.
   101.   Jurisdiction of court
   101A.  Power to amend Third Schedule
   102.   Regulations
   103.   Saving and transitional provision
          First Schedule — Constitution and proceedings of Authority
          Second Schedule — Powers of Authority
          Third Schedule — Essential transport services

An Act to provide for the transfer of the airport undertaking of the
  Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore to a successor company, to
  provide for the reconstitution of the Civil Aviation Authority of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        8

Singapore, to provide for the regulation of the operation of airports
and for the imposition of economic controls at airports.

          [1 July 2009: Except sections 86 and 87 ;
              1 October 2009: Sections 86 and 87 ]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore Act 2009.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “agreement” means any agreement, whether formal or informal
         and whether express or implied;

      “air navigation services” means services provided to air traffic
         during all phases of operations to ensure their safe and
         efficient movement, and includes —

              (a) air traffic control services, including air traffic
                   control service for arriving or departing controlled
                   flights, for controlled flights in controlled areas or for
                   traffic within any manoeuvring area and other
                   aerodrome traffic;

              (b) air traffic advisory services provided within advisory
                   airspace to ensure separation, insofar as practical,
                   between aircraft which are operating on flight plans
                   in accordance with Instrument Flight Rules;

              (c) flight information services;

              (d) alerting services provided to notify appropriate
                   organisations regarding aircraft in need of search
                   and rescue aid, and to assist such organisations as
                   may be required;

              (e) communications, navigation and surveillance
                   services;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
   Civil Aviation Authority of

9  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

   (f) meteorological services for air navigation;

   (g) search and rescue services; and

   (h) aeronautical information services for the provision of
        aeronautical information and data necessary for the
        safety, regularity and efficiency of air navigation;

   “air traffic control service” means a service provided for the
      purposes of —

   (a) preventing collisions between aircraft, and between
        aircraft and obstructions on any manoeuvring area;
        and

   (b) expediting and maintaining an orderly flow of air
        traffic;

   “aircraft” means a machine that can derive support in the
      atmosphere from the reactions of the air other than reactions
      of the air against the earth’s surface;

   “airline” means a person who carries on a commercial air
      transport enterprise that involves offering or operating air
      services;

   “airport” means any defined area of land in Singapore declared
      under section 3 to be an airport;

   “airport development levy” means a tax of that name payable
      under section 87A;

   “airport licence” means a licence granted under section 36;

   “airport licensee” means the holder of an airport licence;

   “airport services and facilities” means the services and facilities
      provided —

   (a) to enable the landing and taking off of aircraft, such
        as the provision within such areas of —

   (i) airfields, runways, taxiways, parking aprons
       and parking stands for aircraft;

   (ii) facilities and services for apron control;

   (iii) airfield and associated lighting;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        10

          (iv) services to maintain and repair airfields,
               runways, taxiways and parking aprons for
               aircraft;

          (v) rescue, fire safety and environmental hazard
               control services; and

          (vi) airfield supervisory and security services;

          (b) to enable, within certain areas of an airport, the
               servicing and maintenance of aircraft and the
               handling of cargo carried, or to be carried, by
               aircraft, such as the provision within such areas of —

          (i) hangars;

          (ii) services and facilities for the maintenance and
               refueling of aircraft and waste disposal;

          (iii) services and facilities for the storing and
                processing of cargo; and

          (iv) security, customs and quarantine services for
               cargo;

          (c) in relation to aircraft passengers in an airport, such as
              the provision of —

          (i) aerobridges, passenger thoroughfares and
              seating areas;

          (ii) flight information and public address systems;

          (iii) flight catering services and facilities;

          (iv) services and facilities for the operation of
               customs, immigration, and quarantine checks
               and control;

          (v) facilities for the sale and collection of duty-free
               items;

          (vi) services and facilities for the operation of
               security and police services;

          (vii) activities undertaken (including the services
                and facilities provided) in a passenger terminal

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

11  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    to enable the check-in and screening of
    passengers, including services for baggage
    handling and screening; and

    (viii) the holding of any facilities and assets
           (including land) acquired or held to provide
           the services mentioned in this paragraph in the
           future (whether or not used for any other
           purpose in the meantime);

    (d) in relation to visitors to the airport, such as services
         and facilities for the parking of motor vehicles and
         other related services and facilities; and

    (e) at or from an airport for such purposes in connection
        with or incidental to the operation of the airport as
        may be prescribed,

    but does not include air navigation services;

    “airport site” means the site on which an airport is situated;

    “airport undertaking” means —

    (a) all the lands, buildings and other property, movable
         or immovable, vested in the Authority immediately
         before the transfer date for the airport purposes of the
         Authority, excluding such lands, buildings and other
         property as the Minister may specify (called in this
         Act excluded property); and

    (b) all assets, powers, rights, interests, privileges, debts,
         liabilities and obligations connected with lands,
         buildings and other property mentioned in
         paragraph (a), other than excluded property;

    “Appeals Advisory Panel” means an Appeals Advisory Panel
       established under section 56;

    “authorised officer”, in relation to any provision of this Act,
       means any person authorised in that behalf by the Authority
       under section 76 for the purposes of that provision;

    “Authority” means the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore
       established under the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        12

          Act (Cap. 41, 1985 Revised Edition) as in force immediately
          before 1 July 2009 and reconstituted by this Act;

“Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Authority and
   includes any temporary Chairperson of the Authority;

“Changi Airport Development Fund” means the fund of that
   name established under section 25A;

“Chicago Convention” means —

          (a) the Convention on International Civil Aviation done
               at Chicago on 7 December 1944;

          (b) the Protocols amending that Convention which
               Singapore ratifies; and

        (c) the Annexes to that Convention relating to
             international standards and recommended practices,
             being Annexes adopted in accordance with that
             Convention;

                                                                       [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

“Chief Executive” means the Chief Executive of the Authority
   and includes any person acting in that capacity;

“code of practice” or “standard of performance” means a code of
   practice or standard of performance issued or approved under
   section 44, and includes any such code of practice or standard
   of performance as amended from time to time under that
   section;

“company” means a body corporate;

“Contracting State” means any country (including Singapore)
   which is a party to the Convention on International Civil
   Aviation concluded at Chicago on 7 December 1944;

“coordinated airport” means an airport declared under
   section 71C(1)(a) as a coordinated airport;

“debenture” includes debenture stock;

“Deputy Chairperson” means the Deputy Chairperson of the
   Authority and includes any temporary Deputy Chairperson of
   the Authority;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

13  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    “exempt airport operator”, in relation to an airport, means the
       person who is authorised to operate the airport by an
       exemption granted by the Authority under section 43;

    “flight information service” means a service provided for the
       purpose of giving advice and information useful for the safe
       and efficient conduct of flights;

    “ICAO” means the International Civil Aviation Organization
       established under the Chicago Convention, and includes any
       successor to that Organization;

                                                                           [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

    “lending money” includes providing non-equity finance where
       the provision of the finance may reasonably be regarded as
       equivalent to lending money;

    “levy” means a levy imposed under section 86;

    “loan security” means a security held solely for the purposes of a
       moneylending agreement;

    “manoeuvring area” means that part of an airport to be used for
       the taking off, landing and taxiing of aircraft, but does not
       include areas set aside to accommodate aircraft, for
       embarkation or disembarkation of passengers, for loading
       and unloading of mail or cargo, or for fuelling, parking or
       maintenance of aircraft;

    “master plan”, in relation to an airport, means the master plan
       approved under section 48 for that airport;

    “member” means a member of the Authority;

    “moneylending agreement” means an agreement entered into in
       good faith in the ordinary course of carrying on a business of
       lending money, but does not include an agreement dealing
       with any matter unrelated to the carrying on of that business;

    “operate”, in relation to an airport, includes —

    (a) managing and maintaining or otherwise exercising
         control over the operation of the airport;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        14

          (b) providing airport services and facilities at the airport;
               and

          (c) exercising control over the direction to be taken in
              relation to the development of the airport,

          and “operation” and “operating” are to be construed
          accordingly;

“outstanding amount”, in relation to an aircraft, means any of the
   following amounts that has become due and payable, but has
   not been paid or been remitted:

          (a) a levy payable in respect of the aircraft;

          (b) a service charge payable in respect of the aircraft;

          (c) a late payment penalty on any levy or service charge
              payable in respect of the aircraft;

          (d) interest for late payment of any levy or service charge
               payable in respect of the aircraft;

“Register of Statutory Liens” means the Register of Statutory
   Liens maintained under section 91;

“regulations” and “rules” mean regulations and rules made
   under this Act;

“repealed Act” means the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore
   Act (Cap. 41, 1985 Revised Edition) repealed by this Act;

“SAF” or “sustainable aviation fuel” means a renewable or
   waste-derived aviation fuel that meets the prescribed
   sustainability criteria;

                                                                       [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

“SAF environmental attributes” or “sustainable aviation fuel
   environmental attributes”, in relation to any quantity of SAF,
   means a value —

          (a) representing the difference between the carbon
               dioxide (CO2) emissions of the SAF throughout its
               life cycle and those of the same quantity of
               conventional aviation fuel throughout its life cycle;
               and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

15  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    (b) which may be —

    (i) used by a person to meet offsetting
        requirements applicable to that person under
        the global programme known as the Carbon
        Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for
        International Aviation (CORSIA) developed
        by ICAO or other similar programme; or

                   (ii) reported by a person (X) as carbon emissions
                        reduction from the use of SAF under any
                        scheme applicable to or adopted by X for the
                        reporting of environmental sustainability
                        efforts undertaken by X to stakeholders or
                        investors of X or regulators of the business of X;

                                                                           [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

    “SAF Fund” or “sustainable aviation fuel Fund” means the fund
       of that name established under section 25C;

                                                                           [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

    “SAF levy” or “sustainable aviation fuel levy” means the levy
       imposed under section 87B;

                                                                           [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

    “SAF Procuring Entity” or “sustainable aviation fuel Procuring
       Entity” means any person appointed by the Authority to
       procure, manage, account for and allocate SAF and SAF
       environmental attributes in place of the Authority, and
       includes any company established by the Authority to do
       the same;

                                                                           [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

    “schedules facilitated airport” means an airport declared under
       section 71C(1)(b) as a schedules facilitated airport;

    “schedules facilitator” means a person who is appointed under
       section 71D(1)(b) as the schedules facilitator for a schedules
       facilitated airport, or the Authority if no such person is
       appointed;

    “securities”, in relation to a company, includes shares,
       debentures, bonds and other securities of the company,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        16

          whether or not constituting a charge on the assets of the
          company;

“service charge” means a charge under section 88 for air
   navigation services or other services or facilities provided by
   the Authority;

“shares”, in relation to a company, means shares in, or stock
   forming part of, the capital of the company;

“Singapore aircraft” means any aircraft that is registered in
   Singapore;

“Singapore Flight Information Region” means the area within
   which air navigation services are provided by the Authority
   in accordance with the International Civil Aviation
   Organisation Asia/Pacific Regional Air Navigation Plan;

“Singapore Search and Rescue Region” means the Singapore
   Flight Information Region and any area within which search
   and rescue services are provided by the Government;

“slots coordinator” means a person who is appointed under
   section 71D(1)(a) as the slots coordinator for a coordinated
   airport, or the Authority if no such person is appointed;

“statutory lien” means a statutory lien vested in the Authority
   under section 89;

“successor company” means a company nominated by the
   Minister under section 27(1);

“transfer date” has the meaning given by section 26;

“vehicle” includes an autonomous motor vehicle within the
   meaning of the Road Traffic Act 1961.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a company is regarded as wholly
owned by the Government at any time when all the issued shares in
the company are held by or on behalf of the Government.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

17        Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

Airports

 3.—(1) The Minister may, after consultation with the Authority, by
notification in the Gazette, declare all or any of the following to be an
airport for the purposes of this Act:

    (a) any defined area of land in Singapore used, intended or
         designed to be used, either wholly or partly —

          (i) for the landing, taking off, movement, or servicing of
              aircraft;

          (ii) for the storage, loading and unloading of cargo
               carried or to be carried by aircraft; or

          (iii) for the movement of passengers to facilitate their
                travel to and from Singapore by aircraft;

    (b) any road leading into an area mentioned in paragraph (a);

    (c) any buildings, installations and equipment on or adjacent
        to any such area used in connection with the airport or its
        administration.

 (2) Every declaration made under subsection (1) must define the
limits of the airport.

                                    PART 2

               RECONSTITUTION, FUNCTIONS AND
                       POWERS OF AUTHORITY

Reconstitution of Authority

 4. From 1 July 2009, the Authority continues in existence and
continues to be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a
common seal, capable of suing and being sued in its corporate name
and performing such other acts as bodies corporate may by law
perform, and may exercise and perform such other powers and
functions as are conferred by or under this Act or other written law.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
             Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.     Singapore Act 2009                                     18

Common seal

 5.—(1) From 1 July 2009, the Authority continues to have a
common seal and the seal may be broken, altered or made anew as the
Authority thinks fit.

 (2) All deeds and other documents requiring the seal of the
Authority must be sealed with the common seal of the Authority
and every instrument to which the common seal is affixed must be
signed by any 2 members generally or specially authorised by the
Authority for the purpose, or by one member and the Chief Executive.

 (3) All courts, judges and persons acting judicially are to take
judicial notice of the common seal of the Authority affixed to any
document and presume that it was duly affixed.

Constitution of Authority

 6.—(1) The Authority consists of the following members:

       (a) a Chairperson; and

       (b) such other members as the Minister may from time to time
            determine, being not less than 3.

 (2) The First Schedule has effect with respect to the Authority, its
members and its proceedings.

Functions and duties of Authority

 7.—(1) The functions and duties of the Authority are —

       (a) to regulate safety and promote safety and security in civil
            aviation and to exercise safety regulatory oversight over
            civil aviation operations in Singapore and the operation of
            Singapore aircraft outside Singapore;

       (b) to exercise licensing and regulatory functions in respect of
            the operation of airports and the provision of airport
            services and facilities in Singapore;

       (c) to regulate and promote competition and fair and efficient
            market conduct in the operation of airports and the
            provision of airport services and facilities or, in the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

19  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    absence of a competitive market, to prevent the misuse or
    abuse of monopoly or market power;

    (d) to regulate, encourage, promote, facilitate and assist in the
         use, development and improvement of air services, airports
         and aerospace industries;

    (e) to ensure that there are provided in every airport (whether
        by itself or by any airport licensee) adequate and efficient
        airport services and facilities on such terms as the
        Authority thinks expedient;

    (f) to provide air navigation services within the Singapore
        Flight Information Region and such other area as the
        Minister may authorise;

    (g) to provide or coordinate search and rescue services to
         aircraft in distress within the Singapore Search and Rescue
         Region;

    (ga) to cooperate with the Transport Safety Investigation
          Bureau of Singapore in relation to investigations under
          the Transport Safety Investigations Act 2018;

                                                                           [Act 36 of 2018 wef 01/01/2024]

    (gb) to procure, manage, account for and allocate SAF and SAF
          environmental attributes to —

    (i) persons who pay SAF levies; and

    (ii) any other person that may be prescribed in an order
         under section 87B(1),

    (gb) or to establish and appoint a company, or appoint any other
          person, to do the same in place of the Authority;

                                                                           [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

     (h) to encourage, promote, facilitate and assist in the
          development and improvement of civil aviation
          capabilities, skills and services in Singapore;

    (i) to provide technical, consultancy and management
        services relating to any of the matters referred to in this
        subsection;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        20

          (j) to act internationally as the national authority or body
              representing Singapore in respect of matters relating to
              civil aviation;

          (k) to discharge or facilitate the discharge of international
              obligations of the Government as a Contracting State or
              otherwise in respect of civil aviation;

          (l) to collaborate and enter into agreements and arrangements
              with organisations in respect of any matter relating to civil
              aviation and any other matter as the Authority thinks
              expedient;

(m) to foster appropriate education and provide training and
     training facilities in respect of any matter relating to civil
     aviation;

(n) to advise the Government on all matters relating to civil
     aviation;

(o) to promote understanding of civil aviation policies and
     programmes;

(p) to promote research and development on any matter
     relating to civil aviation;

(q) to carry out such other functions and duties as are
     conferred or imposed on the Authority by or under this
     Act or any other written law.

 (2) In performing the functions and discharging the duties imposed
on it by subsection (1), the Authority must have regard to —

(a) satisfying all reasonable demands for air services, air
     navigation services and airport services and facilities;

(b) ensuring that any person licensed or otherwise authorised
     under this Act to operate any airport is able to do so
     efficiently while maintaining independent financial
     viability;

          (c) fostering the development and expansion of Singapore as
              an aviation hub;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

21  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    (d) enabling persons providing airport services or air
         navigation services, and persons operating airports or
         providing airport services and facilities in Singapore, to
         compete effectively in doing so outside Singapore;

    (e) the promotion of measures for the safety and security of
        life and property in aircraft, airports and other civil
        aviation facilities;

    (f) the promotion of energy efficiency within the airport
        services sector; and

    (g) environmental protection and the sustainable development
         of air transport.

 (3) In addition to the functions and duties imposed by this section,
the Authority may undertake such other functions and duties as the
Minister may assign to the Authority and in so doing, the Authority is
deemed to be fulfilling the purposes of this Act, and the provisions of
this Act apply to the Authority in respect of such functions and duties.

 (4) Nothing in this section is to be construed as imposing on the
Authority, directly or indirectly, any form of duty or liability
enforceable by proceedings before any court to which it would not
otherwise be subject.

Powers of Authority

 8.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Authority may
carry on such activities as appear to the Authority to be advantageous,
necessary or convenient for it to carry on for or in connection with the
performance of its functions and the discharge of its duties under this
Act or any other written law and, in particular, the Authority may
exercise any of the powers specified in the Second Schedule.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), the Authority may, with the approval of
the Minister, carry on such other activities incidental to the
performance of its functions and the discharge of its duties under
this Act or any other written law as the Authority may, from time to
time, consider expedient.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        22

 (3) The Authority has to provide the Minister with information with
respect to its property and activities in such manner and at such times
as the Minister may require.

 (4) This section is not to be construed as limiting any power of the
Authority conferred by or under any other written law.

Directions by Minister

 9. The Minister may give to the Authority any direction under
section 5 of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Appointment of committees and delegation

 10.—(1) The Authority may appoint from among its own members
or from other persons who are not members any number of
committees that it thinks fit for purposes which, in the opinion of
the Authority, would be better regulated and managed by means of
those committees.

 (2) The Authority may, subject to any conditions or restrictions that
it thinks fit, delegate to any committee appointed under subsection (1)
or to the Chairperson or Chief Executive or to any other member,
officer or employee of the Authority, any of the functions, duties or
powers of the Authority under this Act or any other written law.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (3) Any function, duty or power delegated under subsection (2) to
any committee or person may be performed or exercised by the
committee or person to whom it has been delegated in the name and
on behalf of the Authority.

Chief Executive, officers and employees, etc.

 11.—(1) There must be a Chief Executive of the Authority, whose
appointment, removal, discipline and promotion must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Authority may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint an individual to act temporarily as the Chief
Executive during any period, or during all periods, when the Chief
Executive —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

23  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (3) The Authority may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint and employ, on such terms and conditions as it may
determine, such other officers, employees, consultants and agents as
may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 12. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

Protection from personal liability

 13.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), no suit or other legal
proceedings shall lie against —

       (a) the Authority or any member, officer or employee of the
            Authority; or

       (b) any authorised officer or other person acting under the
            directions of the Authority,

for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in the
execution or purported execution of this Act or any other written law
conferring or imposing a function or power or imposing a duty on the
Authority.

 (2) No action shall lie against the Authority, or any member, officer
or employee of the Authority acting in the course of the person’s
employment or agency, or against any person acting under the
directions of the Authority, for or in respect of any of the following:

       (a) loss of, or damage to, an aircraft or airport during the
            seizure of an aircraft in accordance with section 92;

       (b) loss of, or damage to, an aircraft so seized while it is in the
            custody, possession or control of the Authority or of any
            member, officer or employee of the Authority;

       (c) any economic loss suffered by a person as a result of such a
            seizure.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        24

 (3) Subsection (2) does not cover loss or damage that is wilfully or
negligently caused by a member, or an officer or employee of the
Authority, or a person acting under the directions of the Authority.

Preservation of secrecy

 14.—(1) Except for the purpose of the performance of the person’s
duties or the exercise of the person’s functions or when lawfully
required to do so by any court or where required or allowed by the
provisions of any written law, a person who is or has been —

       (a) a member, an officer, an employee, an adviser or an agent
            of the Authority;

       (b) a member of a committee of the Authority or an Appeals
            Advisory Panel; or

       (c) an authorised officer or a responsible person for
            information obtained by an authorised person in the
            performance of the duties or exercise of the functions of
            the authorised person under this Act,

must not disclose any information relating to the affairs of the
Authority or of any other person which has been obtained by the
person in the performance of the person’s duties or the exercise of the
person’s functions under this Act.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

 (3) For the purposes of this section, the responsible person for
information obtained by the authorised person in the performance of
the duties or exercise of the functions of the authorised person under
this Act is —

       (a) the employee of the authorised person to whom the
            information was disclosed or who has access thereto; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

25  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    (b) if the information is stored —

    (i) on a database — the employee of the authorised
        person who has day-to-day control of the database;
        or

    (ii) otherwise — the employee of the authorised person
         who has day-to-day responsibility for the system
         under which the information is stored.

Financial year

 15. The financial year of the Authority begins on 1 April of each
year and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

Revenue and property of Authority

 16.—(1) The funds and property of the Authority include —

       (a) grants made to it under section 17;

       (b) all levies, fees, charges, fines, composition sums and
            financial penalties payable to the Authority under this Act;

       (c) all moneys paid to, and all other moneys and property
            lawfully received by, the Authority for the purposes of the
            Authority;

       (d) all moneys paid to the Authority by way of grants,
            subsidies, donations, gifts and contributions;

       (e) all moneys received by the Authority by way of charges
            and fees for services rendered by the Authority to any
            person;

        (f) all moneys, dividends, royalties, interest or income
            received from any transaction made pursuant to the
            powers conferred on the Authority under this Act or any
            other written law;

       (g) all moneys borrowed by the Authority under this Act; and

       (h) all accumulations of income derived from any such
            property or money.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        26

 (2) The moneys of the Authority are to be applied only in payment
of expenditure incurred by it in the discharge of its functions, duties,
obligations and liabilities and in making any payment that it is
authorised or required to make by or under law.

 (3) The Authority must open and maintain one or more accounts
with such bank or banks as the Authority thinks fit, and every such
account must be operated by such person or persons authorised to do
so by the Authority.

 (4) It is the duty of the Authority to exercise and perform its
functions under this Act so as to ensure that the total revenues of the
Authority are sufficient, taking one financial year with another, to
meet its total outgoings, including depreciation and interest on capital
and to meet a reasonable proportion of the cost of performing the
functions and duties of the Authority.

Grants

 17. For the purpose of enabling the Authority to perform its
functions and discharge its duties under this Act or any other written
law, the Minister may make grants to the Authority of such sums of
money, as the Minister may determine, out of moneys to be provided
by Parliament.

Borrowing powers

 18.—(1) For the performance of its functions or discharge of its
duties under this Act or any other written law, the Authority may raise
loans from the Government or, with the approval of the Minister, raise
loans within or outside Singapore from such source as the Minister
may direct by —

       (a) mortgage, overdraft or other means, with or without
            security;

       (b) charge, whether legal or equitable, on any property vested
            in the Authority or on any other revenue receivable by the
            Authority under this Act or any other written law; or

       (c) the creation and issue of debentures, bonds or any other
            instrument as the Minister may approve.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

27  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

 (2) For the purposes of this section, the power to raise loans
includes the power to make any financial agreement whereby credit
facilities are granted to the Authority for the purchase of goods,
materials or things.

Issue of shares, etc.

 19. As a consequence of —

       (a) the vesting of any property, rights or liabilities of the
            Government in the Authority under this Act; or

       (b) any capital injection or other investment by the
            Government in the Authority in accordance with any
            written law,

the Authority must issue such shares or other securities to the
Minister for Finance as that Minister may direct.

Power of investment

 20. The Authority may invest its moneys in accordance with the
standard investment power of statutory bodies as defined in
section 33A of the Interpretation Act 1965.

 21. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

 22. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

 23. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

Symbol, design or representation of Authority

 24.—(1) The Authority has the exclusive right to the use of such
symbol, design or representation as it may select or devise in
connection with its activities or affairs.

 (2) Any person who, without the prior permission of the Authority,
uses a symbol, design or representation identical with that of the
Authority or which so resembles the symbol, design or representation
thereof as to deceive or cause confusion or to be likely to deceive or
cause confusion shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        28

Restrictions on disposal of lands of Authority

 25. The Authority must not, without the consent of the Minister,
sell, exchange or otherwise dispose of any land or any interest therein
acquired by it, or vested in it under the repealed Act.

          PART 2A
           FUNDS

                              [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

Changi Airport Development Fund

 25A.—(1) The Changi Airport Development Fund is established
comprising —

       (a) all moneys appropriated from the Consolidated Fund or
            Development Fund and authorised to be paid into the
            Changi Airport Development Fund by a Supply law;

       (b) all moneys authorised by or under section 46A or 87A or
            any other written law to be paid into the Changi Airport
            Development Fund;

       (c) all contributions by the Authority to the Changi Airport
            Development Fund, out of the excess of the revenue over
            expenditure of the Authority in any financial year;

       (d) any gifts or donations made by any person for the purposes
            of the Changi Airport Development Fund;

       (e) all moneys borrowed or raised by the Authority for the
            purposes of the Changi Airport Development Fund; and

        (f) all investments out of moneys in the Changi Airport
            Development Fund authorised to be made by this Act and
            the proceeds of any such investment, including the net
            income from such investments.

                                                                                                [25/2015; 18/2018]

 (2) The Changi Airport Development Fund is to be managed and
administered by the Authority subject to the directions of the
Minister.

                                                                                                           [25/2015]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

29  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1)(f), the net income from
investments is the amount ascertained by adding to, or deducting
from, the income received from investments of moneys in the Changi
Airport Development Fund, any profit derived or loss sustained (as
the case may be) from the realisation of such investments.

                                                                                                           [25/2015]

 (4) Upon dissolution of the Changi Airport Development Fund
during any term of office of the Government (within the meaning of
the Constitution), the balance then remaining in that Fund must be
transferred to the Consolidated Fund and added to the reserves of the
Government not accumulated by it during that term of office.

                                                                                                           [25/2015]

Purposes of Changi Airport Development Fund

 25B.—(1) The moneys in the Changi Airport Development Fund
established under section 25A may be withdrawn by the Authority
only for the following purposes:

       (a) for carrying on —

               (i) any major airport development within the meaning
                   of section 49(4) at an airport site at Changi; or

              (ii) any construction, improvement, extension,
                   demolition, enlargement and replacement of air
                   navigation facilities and other facilities and
                   buildings required in respect of or in connection
                   with the operation of an airport at that airport site;

       (b) for the provision, acquisition, improvement and
            replacement of other capital assets (including vehicles,
            vessels, rolling-stock, machinery, instruments and
            equipment) required in respect of or in connection with
            the operation of an airport at the airport site at Changi;

       (c) for the carrying on of any survey, research or investigation
            preparatory to the undertaking of any purpose referred to in
            paragraph (a) or (b);

       (d) to provide grants or loans for any purpose referred to in
            paragraph (a), (b) or (c);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        30

          (e) to pay all reasonable legal costs and all reasonable
              expenses incurred by the Authority in connection with
              the collection or attempted collection of any outstanding
              amounts (including any interest thereon) of any sums due
              under any loan made out of moneys in the Changi Airport
              Development Fund;

          (f) to pay all amounts relating to the sale, disposal or write-off
              of any investments paid for with moneys from the Changi
              Airport Development Fund;

(g) to invest in accordance with the standard investment power
     of statutory bodies as defined in section 33A of the
     Interpretation Act 1965;

(h) to pay any principal or interest on moneys borrowed or
     raised by the Authority for the purposes of the Changi
     Airport Development Fund;

        (i) to pay any expenses properly attributable to the setting up
            of the Changi Airport Development Fund and the
            administration, management and investment of moneys
            in that Fund.

                                                                                                           [25/2015]

 (2) However, no loan made or investment paid for with moneys
from the Changi Airport Development Fund may be written off by the
Authority without the prior approval of the Minister.

                                                                                                           [25/2015]

SAF Fund

 25C.—(1) A fund called the SAF Fund is established
comprising —

       (a) all SAF levies paid to the Authority;

       (b) all interest and penalties (including additional penalties)
            imposed under section 87B or an order made under that
            section;

       (c) all contributions by the Authority to the SAF Fund;

       (d) all gifts and donations made by any person for the purposes
            of the SAF Fund; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

31  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    (e) all investments out of moneys in the SAF Fund authorised
        to be made by this Act and the proceeds of any such
        investment, including the net income from such
        investments.

 (2) The SAF Fund is to be managed and administered by the
Authority.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1)(e), the net income from
investments is the amount ascertained by adding to, or deducting
from, the income received from investments of moneys in the SAF
Fund, any profit derived or loss sustained (as the case may be) from
the realisation of such investments.

 (4) Upon dissolution of the SAF Fund, the balance then remaining
in the SAF Fund —

    (a) must be transferred by the Authority to one or more bank
         accounts maintained by the Authority under section 16(3);
         and

    (b) is to be treated as the moneys of the Authority.

                                                                        [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

Purposes of SAF Fund

 25D.—(1) The moneys in the SAF Fund may be withdrawn by the
Authority only for the following purposes:

       (a) the procurement by the Authority or the SAF Procuring
            Entity of SAF and SAF environmental attributes from
            suppliers of SAF;

       (b) to pay all reasonable legal costs and all reasonable
            expenses incurred or estimated to be incurred in
            connection with the collection or attempted collection of
            any SAF levy, including interest and penalties on any SAF
            levy;

       (c) to pay all reasonable costs and all reasonable expenses
            incurred or estimated to be incurred by the Authority or the
            SAF Procuring Entity in connection with the procurement,
            management, accounting or allocation of SAF and SAF

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        32

          environmental attributes to persons mentioned in
          section 7(1)(gb)(i) and (ii);

(d) to pay all reasonable costs and all reasonable expenses
     incurred by the Authority in connection with the
     management of the SAF Procuring Entity;

          (e) to pay any expenses properly attributable to the setting up
              of, and the administration and management of moneys in,
              the SAF Fund;

          (f) to invest in accordance with the standard investment power
              of statutory bodies as defined in section 33A of the
              Interpretation Act 1965.

 (2) However, no investment paid for with moneys from the SAF
Fund may be written off by the Authority without the prior approval
of the Minister.

 (3) If any withdrawal under subsection (1)(b) or (c) based on an
estimation exceeds the actual cost or expense incurred, the Authority
must refund that excess amount to the SAF Fund.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

                                    PART 3

               TRANSFER OF PROPERTIES, RIGHTS,
                 LIABILITIES AND EMPLOYEES TO
                         SUCCESSOR COMPANY

Transfer date

 26. The Minister must, by notification in the Gazette, specify a date
to be the date on which the airport undertaking of the Authority and
employees of the Authority in that undertaking are transferred to the
successor company under this Part (called in this Act the transfer
date, which is 1 July 2009).

Transfer of airport undertaking to successor company

 27.—(1) The Minister must, before the transfer date —

       (a) nominate a company wholly owned or substantially owned
            by the Government to be the successor company for the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

33  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    purposes of this Act, being a company specified by the
    Minister and agreed to by the Minister for Finance; and

    (b) determine the parts of the excluded property vested in the
         Authority immediately before the transfer date which are
         to vest under subsection (4) on lease.

 (2) On the transfer date, the property, rights and liabilities
comprised in the airport undertaking of the Authority become, by
virtue of this section and without further assurance, the property,
rights and liabilities of the successor company nominated for the
purposes of this section by the Minister.

 (3) Every agreement relating to any of the transferred properties to
which the Authority was a party immediately before the transfer date,
whether or not of such nature that the rights and liabilities thereunder
could be assigned, has effect as from that date as if —

    (a) the successor company had been a party to such an
         agreement; and

    (b) for any reference to the Authority there were substituted in
         respect of anything to be done on or after the transfer date a
         reference to the successor company.

 (4) On the transfer date, such part of the excluded property as
determined by the Minister under subsection (1)(b) vests in the
successor company on a lease, which —

    (a) is for such tenure and subject to such terms and conditions
         as the Authority may determine; and

    (b) is a concurrent lease in respect of excluded property which
         is the subject of any existing lease; and “existing lease”
         means a lease of any part of the excluded property which is
         in force immediately before the transfer date.

 (5) All assets, powers, rights, interests, privileges, debts, liabilities
and obligations connected with the part of the excluded property
transferred to the successor company under subsection (4)(a) are
deemed, on the transfer date, by virtue of this section and without
further assurance, to have become the assets, powers, rights, interests,
privileges, debts, liabilities and obligations of the successor company.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        34

 (6) If any question arises as to whether any particular property,
asset, interest, right, privilege, liability or obligation has been
transferred to or vested in the successor company under
subsection (2) or (4), a certificate under the hand of the Minister
for Finance is conclusive evidence that the property, asset, interest,
right, privilege, liability or obligation was or was not so transferred or
vested.

(7) To avoid doubt, it is declared that —

(a) any reference in this Act to property comprised in the
     Authority’s airport undertaking is a reference to that
     property (other than the excluded property) of the
     Authority whether situated in Singapore or elsewhere; and

(b) any such reference to rights and liabilities comprised in the
     Authority’s airport undertaking is a reference to the rights
     to which the Authority is entitled or (as the case may be)
     the liabilities to which the Authority is subject, whether
     under the laws of Singapore or any country outside
     Singapore and includes rights and liabilities arising
     under loans raised in relation to the Authority’s airport
     undertaking.

 (8) It is the duty of the Authority and of the successor company to
take all such steps as may be requisite to secure that the vesting in the
successor company by virtue of this section of any foreign property,
right or liability is effective under the relevant foreign law, and until
such time it is the duty of the Authority to hold that property or right
for the benefit of, or to discharge that liability on behalf of, the
successor company.

 (9) Nothing in subsection (7) is to be taken as prejudicing the effect
under the laws of Singapore of the vesting in the successor company
by virtue of this section of any foreign property, right or liability.

 (10) Any expenses incurred by the Authority under subsection (8)
must be paid by the successor company.

 (11) In subsections (7) and (8), references to any foreign property,
right or liability are references, respectively, to any property, right or
liability comprised in the Authority’s airport undertaking as respects

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

35  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

which any issue arising in any proceedings would have been
determined (in accordance with the rules of conflict of laws) by
reference to the law of a country or territory outside Singapore.

Transfer of employees to successor company

 28.—(1) As from the transfer date, such person or category of
persons as the Minister may determine who, immediately before that
date, is employed by the Authority is transferred to the service and be
an employee of the successor company on terms no less favourable
than those enjoyed by the person immediately prior to the person’s
transfer.

 (2) The service of a person transferred under subsection (1) as an
employee of the successor company is to be taken for all purposes to
have been continuous with the service of the person, immediately
before the transfer date, as an employee of the Authority.

 (3) Despite any provision of law, no person transferred to the
service of the successor company under subsection (1) is entitled to
receive any payment or other benefit merely because the person
stopped being an employee of the Authority as a result of this section
or of any other provision of this Act, or on account of the abolition of
the person’s office in the Authority.

 (4) If any question arises as to whether any person or any category
of persons has been transferred to the service of the successor
company under subsection (1), a certificate under the hand of the
Minister is conclusive evidence that the person or category of persons
was or was not so transferred.

 (5) Until such time as terms and conditions of service are drawn up
by the successor company, the terms and conditions of service in the
Authority continue to apply to every person transferred to the service
of the successor company under subsection (1) as if the person were
still in the service of the Authority.

Service rights, etc., of transferred employees to be preserved

 29.—(1) The terms and conditions of employment to be drawn up
by the successor company must take into account the salaries and
terms and conditions of service, including any accrued rights to leave,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        36

enjoyed by the persons transferred to the service of the successor
company under section 28 while in the employment of the Authority,
and any such term or condition relating to the length of service with
the successor company must provide for the recognition of service
under the Authority by the persons so transferred to be service by
them under the successor company.

(2) If —

(a) a woman who was an employee of the Authority
     immediately before the transfer date becomes an
     employee of the successor company under section 28; and

(b) the day of her confinement is less than 90 days after the
     transfer date,

then, on and after the transfer date, the woman is entitled to, or to
continue to, be absent from work in relation to that confinement under
section 9 of the Child Development Co‑Savings Act 2001 or
section 76 of the Employment Act 1968 as may be applicable to
her as if the Authority continued to be her employer.

(3) If —

(a) immediately before the transfer date, a woman was an
     employee of the Authority and was absent from work
     under section 9 of the Child Development Co-Savings
     Act 2001 or section 76 of the Employment Act 1968 or
     both;

(b) the woman becomes an employee of the successor
     company under section 28; and

          (c) the woman would have been entitled to remain absent from
              work, after the transfer date, if the woman had continued to
              be an employee of the Authority,

then, on and after the transfer date, the woman continues to be so
entitled to be absent from work under either or both of those Acts as if
the Authority continued to be her employer.

 (4) To avoid doubt, section 18A of the Employment Act 1968 does
not apply to the transfer under this Part of any employee of the
Authority to the successor company.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

37  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

 (5) Except as otherwise provided in this section, nothing in
section 28(1) prevents the terms and conditions of a transferred
employee’s employment on or after the transfer date from being
varied in accordance with those terms and conditions, or by or under
any written law, or an award, a determination or an agreement.

 (6) In this section, “vary”, in relation to terms and conditions of
service, includes omitting any of those terms and conditions, adding
to those terms and conditions, or substituting new terms and
conditions for any of those terms and conditions.

Existing contracts

 30. All deeds, schemes, bonds, agreements, instruments and
arrangements subsisting immediately before the transfer date to
which the Authority is a party and relating to any person transferred
to the service of the Authority under section 28 continue in force on
and after that date and are enforceable by or against the successor
company as if the successor company had been named therein or had
been a party thereto instead of the Authority.

Pending proceedings

 31. Any proceedings or cause of action relating to the portion of the
property, assets, interests, rights, privileges, liabilities and obligations
transferred to the successor company under section 27 or to any
employee transferred to the service of the successor company under
section 28 pending or existing immediately before the transfer date by
or against the Authority, or any person acting on its behalf, may be
continued and are to be enforced by or against the successor
company.

Continuation and completion of disciplinary proceedings

 32.—(1) Where, on the transfer date, any disciplinary proceedings
were pending against any employee of the Authority transferred to
the service of the successor company, the proceedings must be carried
on and completed by the successor company.

 (2) Where, on the transfer date, any matter was in the course of
being heard or investigated or had been heard or investigated by a
committee acting under due authority but no order, ruling or direction

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        38

had been made thereon, the committee must complete the hearing or
investigation and may make such order, ruling or direction as it could
have made under the authority vested in it before that date.

 (3) Any order, ruling or direction made by a committee under this
section is to be treated as an order, a ruling or a direction of the
successor company and have the same force or effect as if it had been
made by the successor company under this Act.

Misconduct or neglect of duty by employee before transfer

 33. The successor company may reprimand, reduce in rank, retire,
dismiss or punish in some other manner a person who had, while the
person was in the employment of the Authority, been guilty of any
misconduct or neglect of duty which would have rendered the person
liable to be reprimanded, reduced in rank, retired, dismissed or
punished in some other manner if the person had continued to be in
the employment of the Authority, and if this Act had not been
enacted.

No breach or default because of corporatisation of airport
undertaking

 34.—(1) The operation of this Part is not to be regarded —

       (a) as a breach of contract or confidence or otherwise as a civil
            wrong;

       (b) as a breach of any contractual provision prohibiting,
            restricting or regulating the assignment or transfer of assets
            or liabilities; or

       (c) as giving rise to any remedy by a party to a legal
            instrument, or as causing or permitting the termination of
            any legal instrument, because of a change in the beneficial
            or legal ownership of any asset or liability.

 (2) The operation of section 27 is not to be regarded as an event of
default under any contract or other legal instrument.

 (3) Any provision in any existing contract, agreement, conveyance,
deed, lease, guarantee, bond, indemnity and other instrument or
undertaking to which the Authority is a party or may be bound

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

39  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

prohibiting or having the effect of prohibiting the transfer of any
property, assets, interests, rights, privileges, liabilities or obligations
comprised in the airport undertaking transferred under this Part is
deemed by this Act to have been waived.

 (4) Any provision in any existing contract, agreement, conveyance,
deed, lease, guarantee, bond, indemnity and other instrument or
undertaking to which the Authority is a party or may be bound
conferring on the other party or parties thereto any right of first
refusal or pre-emption rights in respect of any property, asset, interest,
right, privilege, liability or obligation comprised in the airport
undertaking to be transferred by reason of or arising from, or to the
effect that a default is to occur or be deemed to occur as a result of, the
transfer or intended transfer of the property, asset, interest, right,
privilege, liability or obligation under this Part is deemed by this Act
to have been waived.

 (5) No attornment to the successor company by a lessee from the
Authority is required.

Sale of successor company

 35.—(1) As soon as practicable after the transfer date, the successor
company may be sold in accordance with this section.

 (2) The Minister for Finance is authorised —

       (a) to negotiate, enter into and carry out on behalf of the
            Government any agreement for the sale of the successor
            company to a person (called in this section the approved
            person);

       (b) to transfer the shares held by the Minister for Finance in the
            successor company to an approved person in accordance
            with the terms of such agreement; and

       (c) to enter into and carry out agreements for the transfer of the
            shares held by the Minister for Finance in the successor
            company to an approved person.

 (3) Any such negotiations conducted before 1 July 2009 are
validated to the extent of any invalidity.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        40

 (4) Any amounts received for the sale of the successor company
must be paid into the Consolidated Fund, except that there may be
deducted from those amounts, before payment into the Consolidated
Fund, such amount as the Minister for Finance approves to meet the
expenses reasonably incurred in connection with the sale of the
successor company.

 (5) Part 5 does not apply to the sale of the successor company under
this section.

                                    PART 4

        LICENSING AND MANAGEMENT OF AIRPORTS

                       Division 1 — Airport licences

Licence authorising operation of airport

 36.—(1) A person must not operate an airport unless the person is
authorised to do so by —

       (a) an airport licence; or

       (b) an exemption granted by the Authority under section 43.

 (2) Every airport licence granted under this section must be in such
form and for such period as the Authority may determine.

 (3) The Authority may, in accordance with the terms of a general
authority given by the Minister, grant or extend an airport licence.

 (4) In determining whether to grant or extend an airport licence to
or for a particular person, the Authority must consider the following:

       (a) the ability of that person to finance the operation of the
            airport concerned;

       (b) the experience of that person in operating the airport
            concerned, and that person’s ability to perform the duties
            which would be imposed on that person under this Act and
            the airport licence;

       (c) the functions and duties of the Authority under section 7.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

41  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

 (5) Every airport licence granted or extended under this Part
continues in force for such period as may be specified in the airport
licence, unless it is earlier revoked or suspended.

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$1 million and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine
not exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Conditions of airport licence

 37.—(1) An airport licence may include such conditions (whether
or not relating to the activities authorised by the airport licence) as
appear to the Authority to be requisite or expedient having regard to
the purposes of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), an airport licence may include
conditions requiring the airport licensee —

       (a) to enter into agreements or arrangements with any other
            person, class of persons or another airport licensee for —

               (i) the interconnection with, access to and use of any
                   facility needed for carrying on any activity
                   authorised by the airport licence (wherever situated
                   and whether or not used for the purpose of carrying
                   on those activities); and

              (ii) such other purpose as may be specified in the airport
                   licence,

       (a) and on such conditions as may be agreed to by the airport
            licensee and such other persons or, in default of agreement,
            as may be determined by the Authority;

       (b) to prepare itself to deal with any public emergency;

       (c) to pay to the Authority a fee on the grant of the airport
            licence or periodic fees during the currency of the airport
            licence or both, of such amount as may be determined by or
            under the airport licence;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        42

(d) to comply with any direction, determination, order or
     decision of the Authority as to such matters as are specified
     in the airport licence or are of a description so specified;
     and

          (e) to do or not to do such things as are specified in the airport
              licence or are of a description so specified.

(3) Conditions in an airport licence may include —

(a) requiring the airport licensee to provide specified persons
     or the Authority, in such manner and at such times as may
     be specified, with such information as appears to the
     Authority to be requisite or expedient for the purpose of
     facilitating the exercise by those persons or the Authority
     of the functions or duties assigned to them or as may be
     reasonably required for that purpose;

(b) requiring the airport licensee to provide to the Authority
     financial information including regulatory accounts in
     respect of such period and on such basis as may be
     specified;

          (c) requiring the airport licensee to comply with such
              requirements as to capital expenditure in relation to the
              airport or airport services and facilities as specified or
              described in the airport licence;

(d) providing for the determination by the Authority of any
     questions arising under the airport licence, or under any
     document specified or described in the airport licence;

          (e) imposing requirements by reference to designation,
              acceptance or approval by the Authority;

          (f) providing for references in the conditions of the airport
              licence to any document specified or described in the
              airport licence to operate as references to that document as
              revised or re-issued from time to time;

(g) requiring the airport licensee to provide a performance
     bond, guarantee or any other form of security on such
     terms and conditions as the Authority may determine; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

43  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    (h) providing that the conditions of the airport licence have
         effect or cease to have effect at such times and in such
         circumstances as may be determined by or under the
         conditions.

 (4) A payment required by subsection (2) to be rendered to the
Authority may be recovered by it in any court of competent
jurisdiction as if it were a simple contract debt.

Modification of conditions of airport licence

 38.—(1) Subject to this section, the Authority may modify the
conditions of an airport licence.

 (2) Before making modifications to the conditions of an airport
licence under this section, the Authority must give notice to the
airport licensee —

       (a) stating that it proposes to make the modifications in the
            manner specified in the notice and the compensation
            payable for any loss or damage suffered or expense
            reasonably incurred as a direct result of the modification;
            and

       (b) specifying the time (being not less than 28 days from the
            date the notice is served on the licensee) within which
            written representations with respect to the proposed
            modifications may be made.

 (3) Upon receipt of any written representation mentioned in
subsection (2), the Authority must consider the representation and
may —

       (a) reject the representation; or

       (b) amend the proposed modifications or compensation
            payable in accordance with the representation, or
            otherwise,

and, in either event, the Authority must thereupon issue a written
direction to such airport licensee requiring that effect be given to the
proposed modifications specified in the notice or to such
modifications as subsequently amended by the Authority within a
reasonable time.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        44

 (4) Unless otherwise provided by this Act or the Minister, where the
airport licensee concerned has appealed under section 55 to the
Minister against any decision by the Authority under this section, the
decision, direction or other thing appealed against must be complied
with until the determination of the appeal.

 (5) If no written representation is received by the Authority within
the time specified in subsection (2) or if any written representation
made under that subsection is subsequently withdrawn, the Authority
may immediately carry out the modifications specified in the notice
given under that subsection.

Revocation or suspension, etc., of airport licence

 39.—(1) If the Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) an airport licensee is contravening, or is likely to
            contravene or has contravened —

               (i) any of the conditions of its airport licence;

              (ii) any provision of this Act applicable to the airport
                   licensee, for which no criminal penalty is prescribed
                   for a contravention thereof; or

             (iii) any code of practice or standard of performance
                   applicable to the airport licensee;

       (b) an airport licensee has been convicted of an offence under
            section 14(2), 24(2), 49(3), 53(3), 54(3), 57(6) or 60(7);

       (c) an airport licensee has not complied with any direction or
            requirement issued by the Authority under section 38(3),
            40, 45(4), 59(2) or 70(1) or any direction under this
            section;

       (d) any circumstance specified in an airport licensee’s airport
            licence giving rise to the Authority’s power to revoke or
            suspend the licence exists;

       (e) an airport licensee has gone or is likely to go into
            compulsory or voluntary liquidation other than for the
            purpose of amalgamation or reconstruction;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

45  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    (f) an airport licensee has made any assignment to, or
        composition with, its creditors; or

    (g) the public interest or security of Singapore requires,

the Authority may do all or any of the following:

    (h) revoke its airport licence or suspend its airport licence for
         such period as the Authority thinks fit, except in a case of a
         contravention or likely contravention of any code of
         practice or standard of performance applicable to the
         airport licensee;

    (i) require the payment of a financial penalty not exceeding —

    (i) $1 million; or

    (ii) the prescribed amount,

    (i) whichever is applicable;

    (j) impose such other direction as the Authority considers
        appropriate restricting the airport licensee’s business of
        operating the airport;

       (k) where the ground for exercising any power under this
            subsection relates to non-compliance with section 46A(1),
            (2) or (3), require the payment of the contribution required
            to be paid into the reserve fund or the Changi Airport
            Development Fund (as the case may be) under that section,
            or the refund into the reserve fund of such sum of money
            withdrawn by the airport licensee without the approval of
            the Authority, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (2) The Authority must not exercise its powers under subsection (1)
unless an opportunity of being heard by a representative in writing or
by counsel had been given to the airport licensee against which the
Authority intends to exercise its powers, being a period of at least
14 days but not more than 28 days.

 (3) Where the Authority has made any decision under
subsection (1) against any airport licensee, it must serve on the
airport licensee concerned a notice of its decision.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.               Singapore Act 2009                           46

 (4) Subject to subsection (6), any decision by the Authority under
subsection (1) against any airport licensee does not take effect until
the expiry of 14 days after the Authority has served the notice of the
decision on the airport licensee concerned.

 (5) Where the airport licensee concerned has appealed under
section 55 to the Minister against any decision by the Authority
under this section, the decision does not take effect unless the
decision is confirmed by the Minister or the appeal is for any reason
dismissed by the Minister or withdrawn.

 (6) The revocation or suspension of any airport licence under this
section does not prejudice the enforcement by any person of any right
or claim against the airport licensee or former airport licensee, or by
the airport licensee or former airport licensee of any right or claim
against any person.

(7) In this section —

“aeronautical revenue” means such payments received or to be
   received by an airport licensee for an airport from such of its
   services which are essential to the operation of the airport as
   may be prescribed;

“the prescribed amount” means —

          (a) where the ground for exercising any power under
               subsection (1) relates to any capital expenditure in
               relation to an airport or the airport services and
               facilities of an airport — 1% (or such other
               percentage as the Minister may, by order in the
               Gazette, prescribe) of the gross aeronautical revenue
               from an airport licensee’s business of operating an
               airport received, or to be received, for each year
               during which the contravention or non‑compliance
               occurred; or

          (b) where the ground for exercising any power under
               subsection (1) relates to aeronautical charges (within
               the meaning of sections 51 and 52) being in excess of
               the maximum prices set or approved under
               section 52(1) — 120% (or such other percentage as

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

47  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    the Minister may, by order in the Gazette, prescribe)
    of the total aeronautical charges in excess for each
    year during which those charges are in excess.

 (8) Every order made under subsection (7) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Security deposit against contraventions by airport licensee

 40.—(1) If the Authority is satisfied that an airport licensee is
contravening, or is likely to contravene or has contravened —

       (a) any condition of its airport licence;

       (b) any provision of any code of practice or standard of
            performance applicable to the airport licensee;

       (c) any of the provisions of this Act applicable to the airport
            licensee, for which no criminal penalty is prescribed for a
            contravention thereof; or

       (d) any direction issued to, or applicable to, the airport licensee
            under section 38(3), 45(4), 59(2) or 70(1) or any direction
            under this section,

the Authority may, by written notice, direct the airport licensee to do,
or not to do, such things as are specified in such direction.

 (2) In addition to any powers conferred under section 39, if the
Authority is satisfied that an airport licensee is contravening, is likely
to contravene or has contravened —

       (a) any condition of its airport licence;

       (b) any provision of any code of practice or standard of
            performance applicable to the airport licensee;

       (c) any provision of this Act for which no criminal penalty is
            prescribed for a contravention thereof; or

       (d) any direction (including a direction under this section)
            issued by the Minister or the Authority to, or applicable to,
            the airport licensee,

the Authority may, by written direction to the airport licensee, require
the airport licensee to provide or further provide a performance bond,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        48

guarantee or other form of security on such terms and conditions as
the Authority may determine, of an amount that the Authority
considers appropriate.

 (3) An airport licensee to whom a direction is issued under this
section must comply with the direction.

Restriction on transfer of airport licence

 41.—(1) No airport licence may be transferred to any person
without the prior consent in writing of the Authority.

 (2) Any purported transfer of an airport licence in contravention of
this section is void and of no effect.

Airport licensee not to carry on non-airport business

 42.—(1) Except with the prior approval of the Authority, an airport
licensee for an airport must not carry on substantial trading or
financial activities other than —

       (a) activities relating to the operation of the airport;

       (b) activities incidental to the operation of the airport; and

       (c) activities that are consistent with the lease for the airport
            site and the master plan for that airport.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a person who acquires the lease
for an airport site by way of the enforcement of a loan security.

 (3) A contravention of this section does not affect the validity of
any transaction.

Exemption from requiring airport licence

 43.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, by
order in the Gazette, exempt any person (called in this Act an exempt
airport operator) from complying with section 36(1) for any specified
period generally or to such an extent as may be specified in the order,
and unconditionally or subject to such conditions as may be specified
therein.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

49  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the conditions of an exemption
may require any exempt airport operator operating an airport
pursuant to the exemption —

    (a) to comply with any direction given by the Authority as to
         any matters that are specified in the exemption order under
         subsection (1) or are of a description so specified;

    (b) to do or not to do any things that are specified in the
         exemption order under subsection (1) or are of a
         description so specified, except insofar as the Authority
         consents to the exempt airport operator doing or not doing
         them; and

    (c) to refer for determination by the Authority any questions
        arising under the exemption that are specified in the
        exemption order under subsection (1) or are of a
        description so specified.

 (3) An exemption order under subsection (1) continues in force,
unless it is revoked, for such period as may be specified in the order.

 (4) Any exempt airport operator who fails to comply with any
direction mentioned in subsection (2)(a) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (5) Without affecting subsection (4), if any condition of an
exemption granted to an exempt airport operator is not complied
with by the exempt airport operator, the Authority may give to that
exempt airport operator a notice declaring that the exemption is
revoked, insofar as it relates to that person, to such extent and from
such date as may be specified in the notice.

                   Division 2 — Codes of practice and
                         standards of performance

Codes of practice or standards of performance

 44.—(1) The Authority may, from time to time —

       (a) issue one or more codes of practice or standards of
            performance applicable to airport licensees;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        50

(b) approve as a code of practice or standard of performance
     applicable to airport licensees any document prepared by a
     person other than the Authority if the Authority considers
     the document as suitable for this purpose; or

          (c) amend or revoke any code of practice or standard of
              performance issued under paragraph (a) or approved under
              paragraph (b),

with respect to all or any of the following:

(d) the operation of an airport;

          (e) the provision of airport services and facilities;

          (f) the quality of such aspects of airport services and facilities
              as are prescribed in the regulations;

(g) competition, abuse of a dominant position in the operation
     of airports and fair market conduct in the provision of
     airport services and facilities;

(h) the acquisitions or consolidations involving an airport
     licensee and any other person (whether an airport licensee
     or otherwise).

 (2) A code of practice may, in particular, specify the duties and
obligations of any airport licensee in relation to the airport licensee’s
business operation insofar as it relates to the provision of airport
services and facilities in Singapore.

 (3) If any provision in any code of practice or standard of
performance is inconsistent with any provision of this Act, such
provision, to the extent of the inconsistency —

(a) has effect subject to the provisions of this Act; and

(b) having regard to the provisions of this Act, does not have
     effect.

 (4) Where a code of practice or standard of performance is issued,
approved, amended or revoked by the Authority under subsection (1),
the Authority must —

(a) publish a notice of the issue, approval, amendment or
     revocation (as the case may be) of the code of practice or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

51  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    standard of performance in such manner as will secure
    adequate publicity for such issue, approval, amendment or
    revocation;

    (b) specify in the notice mentioned in paragraph (a) the date of
         the issue, approval, amendment or revocation, as the case
         may be; and

    (c) ensure that, so long as the code of practice or standard of
        performance remains in force, copies of that code or
        standard, and of all amendments to that code or standard,
        are available for inspection by airport licensees free of
        charge and for their purchase at a reasonable price.

 (5) No code of practice or standard of performance, no amendment
to an approved code of practice or standard of performance, and no
revocation of any such approved code of practice or standard of
performance, has any force or effect as an approved code of practice
or standard of performance until the notice relating thereto is
published in accordance with subsection (4).

 (6) Any code of practice or standard of performance issued or
approved under this section does not have legislative effect.

 (7) Subject to subsection (8), every airport licensee must comply
with the relevant codes of practice and standards of performance
issued or approved under this section.

 (8) The Authority may, either generally or for such time as the
Authority may specify, waive the application of any code of practice
or standard of performance, or part thereof, issued or approved under
this section to any airport licensee.

 (9) The Authority must give a copy of each approved code of
practice or standard of performance and amendment to or revocation
of an approved code of practice or standard of performance to the
Minister; but failure to comply with this subsection in respect of any
approved code of practice or standard of performance, or any
amendment or revocation thereof, does not invalidate the approved
code of practice or standard of performance, or the amendment or
revocation thereof, as the case may be.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        52

 (10) In this section, “dominant position” means a dominant position
in any market for airport services and facilities, whether in Singapore
or elsewhere.

Directions affecting airport licensee

 45.—(1) The Authority may give directions to be observed by
airport licensees —

       (a) to ensure the reliable provision of any airport services and
            facilities to the public;

       (b) to ensure fair and efficient market conduct by airport
            licensees;

       (c) to ensure the technical compatibility and safety of
            operation of any equipment or system used in the
            provision of airport services and facilities;

       (d) to ensure the coordination and cooperation, on such terms
            as the Authority may specify, with any other person in the
            use or sharing of any facility, installation, plant or system,
            or part thereof, owned or used by the airport licensee for
            the provision of any airport services and facilities;

       (e) in the public interest and security; or

        (f) as may be necessary to allow the Authority to carry out any
            of its functions or duties under section 7.

 (2) A direction under subsection (1) —

       (a) has to require the airport licensee concerned (according to
            the circumstances of the case) to do, or not to do, such
            things as are specified in the direction or are of a
            description specified therein;

       (b) has to take effect at such time, being the earliest practicable
            time, as is determined by or under that direction; and

       (c) may be revoked at any time by the Authority.

 (3) Before giving a direction to any airport licensee under
subsection (1), the Authority must, unless the Authority in respect

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

53  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

of any particular direction considers that it is not practicable or
desirable, give notice —

    (a) stating that the Authority proposes to make the direction
         and setting out its effect; and

    (b) specifying the time within which representations or
         objections to the proposed direction may be made,

and must consider any representations or objections which are duly
made.

 (4) Every airport licensee must comply with every direction of the
Authority given to the airport licensee under this section.

46. [Repealed by Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

                        Division 2A — Reserve fund

Reserve fund

 46A.—(1) The airport licensee for an airport at Changi designated
by the Minister for the purpose of this section must establish and
maintain a reserve fund for the purpose of mitigating the effects of
any condition or event of a significant nature which adversely affects
the civil aviation system.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (2) An airport licensee designated under subsection (1) must pay
annually, within the time specified by the Authority, to —

       (a) the reserve fund — an annual contribution of an amount
            fixed by the Authority, out of the profit after tax that the
            licensee makes in a financial year; and

       (b) the Changi Airport Development Fund — a separate
            annual contribution of an amount fixed by the Authority,
            out of the profit after tax that the licensee makes in a
            financial year.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (3) An airport licensee designated under subsection (1) must not
withdraw any sum from the reserve fund it establishes and maintains

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
                    Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.            Singapore Act 2009                              54

under that subsection except with the approval of the Authority and
for any purpose in that subsection.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (2), the profit after tax that an
airport licensee makes in any financial year must be determined in
accordance with the Accounting Standards made or formulated under
Part 3 of the Accounting Standards Act 2007 and applicable to
companies in respect of their operations in Singapore, and as applied
by the airport licensee for that financial year.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

Appeal to Minister

 46B.—(1) An airport licensee designated under section 46A(1)
who is aggrieved by the Authority’s decision under section 46A(2)(a)
or (b) or (3) may appeal to the Minister against the decision.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (2) Every appeal under this section must be made within the time
and in the manner prescribed.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (3) The decision of the Authority being appealed against does not
take effect until the appeal is determined.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (4) The Minister may determine an appeal against the Authority’s
decision under section 46A(2)(a) or (b) or (3) —

(a) by confirming the decision in whole or varying it in part; or

(b) by reversing the decision in question.

                                                                    [18/2018]

(5) The Minister’s decision on an appeal under this section is final.

                                                                                                         [18/2018]

Section 46A duty not discharged by financial penalty

 46C. Unless otherwise directed by the Minister, the payment by the
airport licensee designated for the purpose of section 46A of a
financial penalty imposed under section 39 in respect of the airport
licensee failing to comply with section 46A(1), (2) or (3) does not

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

55  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

absolve the airport licensee from the requirement to comply with
section 46A(1), (2) or (3), as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

                    Division 3 — Airport development

Master plan for each airport

 47.—(1) For each airport there must be a master plan approved by
the Authority under section 48 —

       (a) to establish the strategic direction for efficient and
            economic development at the airport over the planning
            period of the plan;

       (b) to provide for the development of additional uses of the
            airport site; and

       (c) to reduce potential conflicts between the use of the airport
            site and to ensure that uses of the airport site are compatible
            with the areas surrounding the airport.

 (2) The master plan for an airport operated or to be operated by an
airport licensee must specify —

       (a) the airport licensee’s development objectives for the
            airport;

       (b) the airport licensee’s planning principles and assumptions;

       (c) the airport licensee’s assessment of the future needs of civil
            aviation users of the airport, and other users of the airport,
            for airport services and facilities relating to that airport;

       (d) the airport licensee’s intentions for land use and related
            development of the airport site, including in particular any
            major airport development at the airport site and for any
            adjacent area that may become part of the airport site;

       (e) the airport licensee’s provision of airport services and
            facilities relating to the airport to the users of any area
            adjacent to the airport site;

        (f) the airport licensee’s airport development plan; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        56

(g) such other matters (if any) as are prescribed in the
     regulations.

 (3) Each master plan approved under section 48 for an airport
remains in force until a draft master plan that is to replace the master
plan comes into force for that airport.

 (4) At least once every 5 years after the approval under section 48
of the master plan for an airport, the airport licensee of the airport
must review the master plan for the airport and submit to the
Authority a report of its review together with proposals for additions
and alterations to the master plan which the airport licensee may
consider expedient, including a draft master plan that is to replace the
master plan in force for that airport.

Approval of master plan for airport

 48.—(1) On receipt of any submission by an airport licensee of an
airport of any draft master plan for the airport (including a draft
master plan that is to replace the master plan for that airport) or any
additions and alterations to the master plan in force for the airport, the
Authority may —

       (a) approve the draft master plan or the additions and
            alterations to the master plan in force; or

       (b) refuse to approve the draft master plan or the additions and
            alterations to the master plan in force, as the case may be.

 (2) In deciding whether to approve the draft master plan for an
airport, the Authority must have regard to the following matters:

       (a) the extent to which the plan achieves the purposes of a
            master plan as described in section 47(2);

       (b) the extent to which carrying out the plan would meet
            present and future requirements of civil aviation users of
            the airport, and other users of the airport, for airport
            services and facilities relating to the airport concerned;

       (c) the effect that carrying out the plan would likely to have on
            the use of land within the airport site and in areas
            surrounding the airport;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

57  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    (d) the consultations undertaken in preparing the plan
         (including the outcome of the consultations); and

    (e) the safety aspects and operational aspects of the airport,

but nothing in this subsection limits the matters to which the
Authority may have regard.

 (3) If the Authority approves a draft master plan for an airport, the
plan becomes a master plan for that airport and comes into force at the
time of the approval.

 (4) The Minister may make rules prescribing the content, form and
procedure to be followed in connection with the preparation, giving
and approval of additions and alterations to the master plan in force
for an airport or a draft master plan that is, or is to replace the master
plan, for that airport, including —

    (a) requiring the airport licensee to publish in prescribed
         circumstances a notice of the submission of any draft
         master plan (including a draft master plan that is to replace
         the master plan for that airport) or proposal of additions
         and alterations to the master plan in force for an airport,
         and of the place or places where copies of the draft master
         plan or the proposal may be inspected;

    (b) objections and representations made in accordance with
         the rules to be considered, and public or other hearings in
         such cases as may be prescribed to be held before an airport
         licensee for an airport submits any draft master plan for the
         airport (including a draft master plan that is to replace the
         master plan for that airport) or any additions and alterations
         to the master plan in force for the airport to the Authority or
         before the Authority makes a decision under
         subsection (1); and

    (c) providing that a contravention thereof shall be punishable
        by a fine not exceeding $10,000 or with imprisonment for a
        term not exceeding 2 years or both as may be specified in
        the rules.

 (5) Any master plan approved by the Authority immediately upon
the commencement of this Division for any airport or any part thereof

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        58

is deemed to be a master plan approved under, and in accordance with
rules made under, this section for that airport.

Major airport development in accordance with master plan

 49.—(1) An airport licensee for an airport must not carry out any
major airport development relating to the airport, or cause or permit
to be carried out any major airport development relating to the airport,
unless the carrying out of the development is in accordance with the
master plan for that airport or the development is of a kind declared
under section 98 to be exempt from this Division.

 (2) A person (other than an airport licensee for an airport) must not
carry out any major airport development relating to the airport, or
cause or permit to be carried out any major airport development
relating to the airport, unless the carrying out of the development is in
accordance with the master plan for that airport or the development is
of a kind declared under section 98 to be exempt from this Division.

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (1) or (2) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000.

 (4) In this section —

      “development” means the carrying out of any building works,
         engineering, mining or earthworks or other operations in, on,
         over or under land, or the making of any material change in
         the use of any building or land;

      “major airport development” means a development that is
         carried out at an airport site that consists of —

              (a) constructing a new runway or extending the length of
                   a runway;

              (b) constructing a new building wholly or principally for
                   use as a passenger terminal;

              (c) extending a building that is wholly or principally for
                   use as a passenger terminal;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

59  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    (d) constructing a new taxiway where the extension
         significantly increases the capacity of the airport to
         handle movements of passengers, cargo or aircraft;

    (e) constructing a new parking apron for loading and
        unloading of aircraft passengers or cargo;

    (f) constructing a new cargo terminal;

    (g) constructing new hangars, fuel farms, buildings used
         for in-flight catering, firefighting services, or aircraft
         maintenance facilities; or

    (h) such other development as may be prescribed by
         regulations.

Saving of operation of other written laws

 50. To avoid doubt, nothing in this Division or any rules for the
purposes of this Division derogates from the effect of any other
written law for the time being in force relating to planning and use of
land or to building and construction.

              Division 4 — Charges, accounts and records

Charges

 51.—(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), an airport licensee for
an airport may set such charges as it from time to time thinks fit for
the use of the airport, or for such other airport services and facilities
provided by the airport licensee as may be prescribed.

 (2) An airport licensee for an airport is not entitled to demand or
take from any person using or otherwise enjoying the benefit of the
airport or any airport services and facilities provided by the airport
licensee any aeronautical charge exceeding such maximum prices as
may be set or approved from time to time by the Authority under
section 52(1).

 (3) An airport licensee for an airport used by or for the use of any
Singapore aircraft engaged in flights for the purpose of public
transport or instruction in flying is not entitled to demand or take from
any person using or otherwise enjoying the benefit of the airport or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        60

any airport services and facilities provided by the airport licensee any
charge for, or in respect of the use of the airport by aircraft registered
in any Contracting State that exceeds the charge demanded for or in
respect of the use of the airport by Singapore aircraft.

 (4) Any charges set under this section may be charged to persons or
classes of persons owning or operating aircraft, or to persons or
classes of persons using or otherwise enjoying the benefit of the
airport operated or managed by the airport licensee, or any airport
services and facilities provided by the airport licensee, or to any other
persons.

 (5) In this section and section 52, “aeronautical charge” means any
charges imposed by an airport licensee for an airport for providing
any of the following services:

(a) any service that is essential to the operation of the airport;

(b) any service which the Authority certifies as a service that
     the airport licensee has the market power of a monopoly or
     near monopoly in Singapore as a provider of such service;

          (c) any other service prescribed for the purposes of
              subsection (1) by regulations.

Maximum prices for aeronautical charges

 52.—(1) In respect of aeronautical charges, maximum prices may
be approved by the Authority in one or more of the following terms:

       (a) maximum prices or the maximum rate of increase or the
            minimum rate of decrease in maximum prices;

       (b) average prices or average rates of increase or decrease in
            such average prices;

       (c) pricing policies or principles;

       (d) by reference to a general price index, the cost of
            production, revenue, a rate of return on assets or any
            other factor;

       (e) by reference to quantity, location or period of supply of the
            airport services and facilities;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

61  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    (f) any other terms as the Authority considers appropriate.

 (2) The Minister may make rules prescribing the content, form and
procedure to be followed, and the methodology or other matters to be
included in connection with the preparation, setting and approval of
maximum prices for the purposes of subsection (1).

 (3) Any maximum price approved by the Authority immediately
upon the commencement of this Division in respect of any
aeronautical charges at any airport is deemed to be maximum
prices approved by the Authority under, and in accordance with rules
made under, this section in respect of those aeronautical charges of
the airport licensee for that airport.

Accounts and statements

 53.—(1) An airport licensee must —

       (a) in respect of the whole or part (as the case may be) of a
            financial year, prepare such accounts and statements as are
            specified in, or ascertained in accordance with, the
            regulations;

       (b) retain the accounts and statements prepared in accordance
            with paragraph (a) for 5 years after the end of the period to
            which they relate;

       (c) within the prescribed period after the accounting period,
            give the Authority those accounts and statements duly
            audited by an auditor approved by the Authority; and

       (d) keep and retain records, where the records are relevant to
            the preparation of the accounts and statements of the
            airport licensee mentioned in paragraph (a), for such
            period and in such manner as prescribed in the regulations.

 (2) An airport licensee must not prepare any such accounts or
statements in such a way that they do not correctly record and explain
the matters or things to which they relate.

 (3) An airport licensee —

       (a) which is subject to any requirement under subsection (1) or
            (2); and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        62

(b) which contravenes any such requirement,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000.

Record-keeping and giving information on quality of service

 54.—(1) An airport licensee, and every person who provides airport
services and facilities under an agreement with an airport licensee,
must —

       (a) keep and retain records for such period as may be
            prescribed, where the records are relevant to a matter
            that is relevant to monitoring or evaluating, under this Part,
            the quality of an aspect of airport services and facilities as
            prescribed in the regulations; and

       (b) give to the Authority within the period and in the manner
            prescribed in the regulations, specified information that is
            relevant to a matter that is relevant to monitoring or
            evaluating, under this Part, the quality of an aspect of
            airport services and facilities as prescribed in the
            regulations.

 (2) An airport licensee, or a person who provides airport services
and facilities under an agreement with an airport licensee, must not, in
purported compliance with a requirement under subsection (1), make
a record of any matter or thing in such a way that it does not correctly
record the matter or thing.

 (3) An airport licensee, or a person who provides airport services
and facilities under an agreement with an airport licensee —

       (a) who is subject to any requirement under subsection (1) or
            (2); and

       (b) who contravenes any such requirement,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
                    Civil Aviation Authority of

63                  Singapore Act 2009                        2020 Ed.

                    Division 5 — Appeals

Appeal to Minister

55.—(1) Any airport licensee who is aggrieved by —

    (a) any decision of the Authority —

    (i) refusing to grant an airport licence under section 36;

    (ii) imposing any condition on an airport licence under
         section 37;

    (iii) modifying any condition of an airport licence under
          section 38;

    (iv) revoking or suspending an airport licence, or
         imposing a financial penalty under section 39;

    (v) refusing consent to a transfer of an airport licence
         under section 41;

    (vi) refusing approval to an airport licensee to carry on
         substantial trading or financial activities other than
         activities specified in section 42(1);

    (vii) refusing to approve a draft master plan or the
          additions and alterations to the master plan in force
          (as the case may be) for an airport under section 48;
          or

    (viii) refusing to approve the appointment of a person as
           the chief executive officer, a director or the
           chairperson of the board of directors, of an airport
           licensee under section 59(1);

    (b) any direction of the Authority under section 40, 45 or 60;

    (c) any maximum price for aeronautical charges set or
        approved by the Authority under section 52;

    (d) any notice of the Authority under section 83(2)(b); or

    (e) anything contained in any code of practice or standard of
        performance applicable to the airport licensee,

may, within 14 days after being notified of the decision, notice or
direction, or the issue or approval of the code of practice or standard

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        64

of performance, as the case may be, (or such longer period as the
Minister allows in exceptional circumstances, whether before or after
the end of the 14 days), appeal to the Minister in the manner
prescribed by rules.

 (2) Any person (other than an airport licensee) who is aggrieved by
any decision or direction of the Authority given by or under
section 60 may, within 14 days after being notified of the decision
or direction (or such longer period as the Minister allows in
exceptional circumstances, whether before or after the end of the
14 days), appeal to the Minister in the manner prescribed by rules.

 (3) Any person who makes an appeal to the Minister under
subsection (1) or (2) must, within the period specified therein —

(a) state as concisely as possible the circumstances under
     which the appeal arises, the issues and grounds for the
     appeal; and

(b) submit to the Minister all relevant facts, evidence and
     arguments for or against the appeal, as the case may be.

 (4) Where an appeal has been made to the Minister under
subsection (1) or (2), the Minister may require —

(a) any party to the appeal; and

(b) any person who is not a party to the appeal but appears to
     the Minister to have information that is relevant to the
     matters mentioned in that subsection,

to provide the Minister with all such information as he or she may
require (whether for the purpose of deciding if an Appeals Advisory
Panel should be established or for determining the appeal), and any
person so required to provide such information must provide it in
such manner and within such period as the Minister may specify.

 (5) The Minister may reject any appeal of an appellant who fails to
comply with subsection (3) or (4).

 (6) Unless otherwise provided by this Act or the Minister, where an
appeal is lodged under this section, the decision, direction or other
thing appealed against must be complied with until the determination
of the appeal.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

65  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

(7) The Minister may determine an appeal under this section —

    (a) by confirming, varying or reversing any decision, notice or
         direction of, or code of practice or standard of performance
         issued by, the Authority; or

    (b) by directing the Authority to reconsider its decision,
         notice, direction, code of practice or standard of
         performance, as the case may be.

 (8) Before determining an appeal under subsection (7) and for the
purpose of forming an opinion on which to base such determination,
the Minister may consult an Appeals Advisory Panel established for
the purpose of advising the Minister in respect of the appeal but, in
making such determination, is not bound by such consultation.

(9) The Minister’s decision in any appeal is final.

 (10) The Minister may make rules in respect of the manner in which
an appeal may be made to, and the procedure to be adopted in the
hearing of any appeal by, the Minister under this section.

Appeals Advisory Panel

 56.—(1) Where the Minister considers that an appeal lodged under
section 55(1) or (2) involves issues of such nature or complexity that
it ought to be considered and determined by persons with particular
technical or other specialised knowledge, the Minister may establish
by direction an Appeals Advisory Panel, comprising one or more of
such persons with particular technical or other specialised knowledge
and such other persons as the Minister considers appropriate, to
provide advice to the Minister with regard to the discharge of his or
her functions under section 55 in respect of any appeal that has been
made to the Minister under section 55(1) or (2).

 (2) For the purposes of establishing an Appeals Advisory Panel, the
Minister may do all or any of the following:

       (a) determine or vary the terms of reference of the Appeals
            Advisory Panel;

       (b) appoint persons to be the chairperson and other members
            of an Appeals Advisory Panel;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        66

          (c) at any time remove the chairperson or other member of an
              Appeals Advisory Panel from such office;

(d) determine the procedure to be adopted by the Appeals
     Advisory Panel in considering any matter referred to it;

          (e) determine any other matters which the Minister considers
              incidental or expedient for the proper and efficient conduct
              of business by the Appeals Advisory Panel.

 (3) An Appeals Advisory Panel may regulate its proceedings as it
considers appropriate, subject to the following:

(a) the quorum for a meeting of the Appeals Advisory Panel is
     a majority of its members;

(b) a decision supported by a majority of the votes cast at a
     meeting of the Appeals Advisory Panel at which a quorum
     is present is the decision of that Panel.

 (4) The remuneration and allowances (if any) of a member of an
Appeals Advisory Panel must be determined by the Minister and
form part of the expenses of the Authority.

 (5) An Appeals Advisory Panel must be independent in the
performance of its functions.

                                    PART 5

                   CONTROL OF OWNERSHIP AND
        MANAGEMENT, ETC., OF AIRPORT LICENSEES

                     AND DESIGNATED ENTITIES

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

                        Division 1 — Interpretation
Interpretation of this Part

 56A.—(1) In this Part —
      “5% controller” has the meaning given by section 56B;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

67  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    “25% controller”, in relation to a designated entity, means a
       person who, alone or together with that person’s associates —

    (a) holds 25% or more, but less than 50%, of the total
         equity interests in that designated entity; or

    (b) is in a position to control 25% or more, but less than
         50%, of the voting power in that designated entity;

    “50% controller”, in relation to a designated entity, means a
       person who, alone or together with that person’s associates —

    (a) holds 50% or more, but less than 75%, of the total
         equity interests in that designated entity; or

    (b) is in a position to control 50% or more, but less than
         75%, of the voting power in that designated entity;

    “75% controller”, in relation to a designated entity, means a
       person who, alone or together with that person’s associates —

    (a) holds 75% or more of the total equity interests in that
         designated entity; or

    (b) is in a position to control 75% or more of the voting
         power in that designated entity;

    “acquisition” includes an agreement to acquire, but does not
       include —

    (a) an acquisition by will or by operation of law; or

    (b) an acquisition by way of enforcement of a loan
         security;

    “arrangement” includes any formal or informal scheme,
       arrangement or understanding, and any trust whether
       express or implied;

    “business trust” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
       Business Trusts Act 2004;

    “chief executive officer”, in relation to a designated entity or the
       trustee-manager of a designated entity, means an individual
       (by whatever name called) who —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        68

          (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
               arrangement with, the designated entity or trustee-
               manager, as the case may be; and

          (b) is principally responsible for the management and
               conduct of the designated entity or trustee-manager,
               as the case may be,

          and includes any individual for the time being performing all
          or any of the functions of a chief executive officer;

“Class 1 designated operating entity” means a designated
   operating entity that is also an airport licensee or a
   designated business trust;

“Class 2 designated operating entity” means a designated
   operating entity that is neither an airport licensee nor a
   designated business trust;

“control” includes control as a result of, or by means of, any
   trust, agreement, arrangement, understanding or practice,
   whether or not having legal or equitable force and whether or
   not based on legal or equitable rights;

“decrease”, in relation to the holding of equity interests, includes
   a decrease to a point of nil;

“designated business trust” means a business trust that is
   established wholly or partly in respect of an airport (or any
   part of an airport) and which has been declared by the
   Authority, by notification in the Gazette, to be a designated
   business trust for the purposes of this Part;

“designated entity” means a designated equity interest holder or
   a designated operating entity;

“designated equity interest holder” means an entity that has been
   designated as a designated equity interest holder under
   section 64;

“designated operating entity” means an entity that has been
   designated as a designated operating entity under section 64;

“director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

69                       Singapore Act 2009                   2020 Ed.

    “effective designation date”, in relation to a designated entity,
       means the date specified under section 64(3) as the date on
       which the designation of that entity as a designated operating
       entity or designated equity interest holder (as the case may
       be) takes effect;

    “entity” means any sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation
       or other body of persons, whether corporate or unincorporate,
       and includes a business trust;

    “equity interest” —

    (a) in relation to a corporation — means a voting share in
         that corporation;

    (b) in relation to an entity other than a corporation —
         means any right or interest, whether legal or
         equitable, in that entity (by whatever name called)
         which gives the holder of that right or interest voting
         power in that entity; and

    (c) in relation to a business trust — means a unit in that
        business trust;

    “essential transport service” means any service or facility
       specified or described in the Third Schedule which is
       necessary for the continuity of, or to support, the provision
       of air transport;

    “increase”, in relation to the holding of equity interests, includes
       an increase from a starting point of nil;

    “indirect controller”, in relation to a designated entity, means
       any person, whether acting alone or together with any other
       person, and whether with or without holding equity interests
       or controlling the voting power in the designated entity —

    (a) whose directions, instructions or wishes —

    (i) the directors or other officers of the designated
        entity; or

    (ii) the trustee-manager (in the case of a designated
         entity that is a business trust),

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        70

          (a) is accustomed or under an obligation, whether formal
               or informal, to act in accordance with; or

          (b) who is in a position to determine the policy of the
               designated entity,

          but does not include —

          (c) any person who is —

          (i) a director or other officer of the designated
              entity; or

          (ii) the trustee‑manager (in the case of a designated
               entity that is a business trust); or

          (d) any person whose directions, instructions or
               wishes —

          (i) the directors or other officers of the designated
              entity; or

          (ii) the trustee-manager (in the case of a designated
               entity that is a business trust),

          (d) is accustomed to act in accordance with by reason
               only that the acting is on advice given by the person
               in that person’s professional capacity;

“liquidator” includes the Official Receiver when acting as the
   liquidator of a corporation;

“officer”, in relation to a corporation, includes —

          (a) a director or secretary of, or a person employed in an
               executive capacity by, the corporation;

          (b) any receiver or manager, or any receiver and
               manager, of any part of the undertaking of the
               corporation, appointed under a power contained in
               any instrument or by the General Division of the
               High Court or by creditors;

          (c) any liquidator of the corporation appointed in a
              voluntary winding up or by the General Division of
              the High Court or by creditors; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

71  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    (d) any judicial manager of the corporation appointed
         under Part 7 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
         Dissolution Act 2018;

    “Official Receiver” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
       Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018;

    “related corporation”, in relation to a corporation, means another
       corporation that is deemed under section 56D(2) to be related
       to that corporation;

    “share”, in relation to a corporation, means a share in the share
       capital of the corporation and includes stock into which all or
       any of the share capital of the corporation has been
       converted;

    “treasury share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
       Companies Act 1967;

    “trustee‑manager” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
       Business Trusts Act 2004;

    “unit” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Business Trusts
       Act 2004;

    “unitholder” means a person who holds units in a business trust;

    “voting share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
       Companies Act 1967 but does not include a treasury share.

 (2) A reference in this Part to the control of a percentage of the
voting power in a designated entity is to the control, whether direct or
indirect, of that percentage of the total number of votes that might be
cast in —

    (a) a general meeting of the designated entity; or

    (b) in the case of a designated entity that is a business trust — a
         general meeting of the unitholders of the business trust.

 (3) In ascertaining a person’s control of the percentage of the total
number of votes that might be cast at a general meeting mentioned in
subsection (2), the number of votes that the person is entitled to cast at
the meeting by reason of having been appointed a proxy or
representative to vote at the meeting is to be disregarded.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
                    Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.            Singapore Act 2009                              72

(4) In this Part —

(a) a reference to a chairperson of a board of directors includes
     an individual (by whatever name called) acting in that
     capacity;

(b) a reference to the business or operations of an entity that is
     a business trust is to the business or operations (as the case
     may be) carried on by the trustee-manager of the business
     trust on behalf of the business trust; and

          (c) a reference to a condition imposed by the Authority
              includes a condition added or varied by the Authority.

                                                                              [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Meaning of “5% controller”

 56B.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), in this Part, a reference to a
“5% controller” of an entity is to a person who, alone or together with
that person’s associates —

       (a) holds 5% or more, but less than 25%, of the total equity
            interests in that designated entity; or

       (b) is in a position to control 5% or more, but less than 25%, of
            the voting power in that designated entity.

 (2) Where an entity is an airport licensee or a designated business
trust (and not also a designated entity), a reference to a “5%
controller” of that entity is to a person who, alone or together with
that person’s associates —

       (a) holds 5% or more of the total equity interests in that entity;
            or

       (b) is in a position to control 5% or more of the voting power in
            that entity.

 (3) Despite subsection (2) —

       (a) the Minister may, by order in the Gazette, vary the
            definition of “5% controller” under subsection (2) by
            specifying a higher percentage of the total equity interests
            in or of the voting power in an airport licensee or a
            designated business trust; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

73  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    (b) any reference in this Part to a “5% controller” in relation to
         an entity that is an airport licensee or a designated business
         trust (and not also a designated entity) is to a person who,
         alone or together with the person’s associates —

    (i) holds that specified higher percentage or more of the
        total equity interests in; or

    (ii) is in a position to control that specified higher
         percentage or more of the voting power in,

    (b) the airport licensee or designated business trust.

 (4) In making any order under subsection (3), the Minister may
provide for such saving and transitional provisions as he or she thinks
fit.

 (5) Every order made under subsection (3) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

What holding an equity interest means

 56C.—(1) In this Part, a person holds an equity interest if the
person —

       (a) has or is deemed to have an equity interest in accordance
            with subsections (2) to (8); or

       (b) otherwise has a legal or equitable interest in that equity
            interest,

except for —

       (c) any interest to be disregarded under section 7(9) of the
            Companies Act 1967;

       (d) any interest in a share held by a person whose ordinary
            business includes the lending of money if the person holds
            the interest as a loan security;

       (e) any interest in a share held by a person, being an interest
            held by the person because the person holds a prescribed
            office;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        74

          (f) any interest of a prescribed kind in a share, being an
              interest held by such persons as are prescribed;

(g) any interest in a share held by the Government or the
     Minister for Finance in his or her corporate capacity;

(h) any equity interest of a prescribed kind in a company, being
     an equity interest held by a prescribed person; or

          (i) any interest prescribed under section 102 as an interest that
              is to be disregarded.

(2) For the purposes of this Part, if —

(a) a person holds an interest in a share as a loan security;

(b) the ordinary business of the person includes the lending of
     money;

          (c) the loan security is enforced;

(d) as a result of the enforcement of the loan security, the
     person becomes the holder of the share; and

          (e) the person holds the share for a continuous period (called
              the holding period) beginning at the time when the security
              was enforced,

the person’s interest in the share is to be disregarded at all times
during so much of the holding period as occurs during whichever of
the following periods is applicable:

          (f) the period of 90 days beginning when the security was
              enforced;

(g) if the Authority, by written notice given to the person,
     allows a longer period, the end of that longer period.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), a person has an equity interest if the
person has authority (whether formal or informal, or express or
implied) to dispose of, or to exercise control over the disposal of, that
equity interest.

 (4) It is immaterial that the authority of a person to dispose of, or to
exercise control over the disposal of, the equity interest mentioned in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

75  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

subsection (3) is, or is capable of being made, subject to restraint or
restriction.

 (5) It is immaterial, for the purposes of determining whether a
person has an equity interest, that the interest cannot be related to a
particular share, an interest or a right that gives its holder voting
power, or a unit of a business trust, as the case may be.

(6) A person is deemed to have an equity interest if —

    (a) any property held in trust consists of or includes the equity
         interest; and

    (b) the person knows, or has reasonable grounds for believing,
         that the person has an interest under that trust.

 (7) A person is also deemed to have an equity interest if that
person —

    (a) has entered into a contract to purchase the equity interest;

    (b) has a right, otherwise than by reason of having an interest
         under a trust, to have the equity interest transferred to (or to
         the order of) that person, whether the right is exercisable
         presently or in the future and whether on the fulfilment of a
         condition or not;

    (c) has the right to acquire the equity interest under an option,
        whether the right is exercisable presently or in the future
        and whether on the fulfilment of a condition or not; or

    (d) is entitled (otherwise than by reason of having been
         appointed a proxy or representative) to vote at —

    (i) a general meeting of the designated entity; or

    (ii) in the case of a designated entity that is a business
         trust — a general meeting of the unitholders of the
         business trust,

    (d) to exercise or control the exercise of a right attached to the
         equity interest, not being an equity interest in which that
         person has a legal or equitable interest.

 (8) For the purposes of subsection (7)(c), a person is entitled to
acquire anything if the person is absolutely or contingently entitled to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        76

acquire it, whether because of any constituent document of an entity,
the exercise of any right or option or for any other reason.

 (9) A person is not to be deemed as not having an equity interest by
reason only that the person has the equity interest jointly with another
person.

(10) An equity interest is not to be disregarded by reason only of —

(a) its remoteness;

(b) the manner in which it arose; or

          (c) the fact that the exercise of a right conferred by the equity
              interest is, or is capable of being made, subject to restraint
              or restriction.

                                                                              [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Meanings of “associate”, “related corporation”, “subsidiary”
and “holding company”

 56D.—(1) In this Part, a person (A) is an associate of another person
(B) if —

       (a) A is the spouse, or a parent, step-parent or remoter lineal
            ancestor, or a son, stepson, daughter, stepdaughter or
            remoter issue, or a brother or sister, of B;

       (b) A is a partner of B in a partnership or limited liability
            partnership;

       (c) A is a corporation of which B is an officer;

       (d) B is a corporation of which A is an officer;

       (e) A and B are officers of the same corporation;

        (f) A is an employee of B;

       (g) B is an employee of A;

       (h) A and B are employees of the same employer;

        (i) A is the trustee of a discretionary trust where B (or another
            person who is an associate of B by virtue of any paragraph,
            except this paragraph and paragraphs (j) and (r)) benefits,
            or is capable (whether by exercise of a power of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

77  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    appointment or otherwise) of benefitting, under the trust,
    either directly or through interposed entities or trusts;

    (j) B is the trustee of a discretionary trust where A (or another
        person who is an associate of A by virtue of any paragraph,
        except this paragraph and paragraphs (i) and (r)) benefits,
        or is capable (whether by exercise of a power of
        appointment or otherwise) of benefitting, under the trust,
        either directly or through interposed entities or trusts;

    (k) A is a corporation whose directors are accustomed or under
        an obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
        accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of
        B or, where B is a corporation, of the directors of B;

    (l) B is a corporation whose directors are accustomed or under
        an obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
        accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of
        A or, where A is a corporation, of the directors of A;

    (m) A is a person who is accustomed or under an obligation,
         whether formal or informal, to act in accordance with the
         directions, instructions or wishes of B or, where B is a
         corporation, of the directors of B;

    (n) B is a person who is accustomed or under an obligation,
         whether formal or informal, to act in accordance with the
         directions, instructions or wishes of A or, where A is a
         corporation, of the directors of A;

    (o) A is a related corporation of B;

    (p) A is a corporation in which B, alone or together with other
         associates of B as described in paragraphs (b) to (o), is in a
         position to control at least 20% of the voting power in A;

    (q) B is a corporation in which A, alone or together with other
         associates of A as described in paragraphs (b) to (o), is in a
         position to control at least 20% of the voting power in B;

    (r) A is a person with whom B enters, or proposes to enter, into
        an agreement or arrangement (whether oral or in writing

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        78

          and whether express or implied) that relates to any of the
          following matters:

          (i) A and B being in a position, by acting together, to
              control any of the voting power in a designated
              entity;

          (ii) A and B acting together with respect to the
               acquisition, holding or disposal of equity interests
               or other interests in a designated entity;

          (iii) the power of A and B, by acting together, to appoint
                or remove —

          (A) a director of a designated entity; or

          (B) in the case of a designated entity that is a
               business trust — a director of the trustee-
               manager of the business trust;

          (iv) the situation where one or more of the directors of —

          (A) a designated entity; or

          (B) in the case of a designated entity that is a
               business trust — the trustee-manager of the
               business trust,

          (iv) are accustomed or under an obligation (whether
               formal or informal) to act in accordance with the
               directions, instructions or wishes of A and B acting
               together;

          (s) A controls more than half of the voting power of a holding
              company of B;

          (t) B controls more than half of the voting power of a holding
              company of A; or

(u) A is related to B in such other manner as may be prescribed
     by regulations made under section 102.

 (2) A corporation (A) and another corporation (B) are deemed to be
related to each other for the purposes of this section where A is —

(a) the holding company of B;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

79  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    (b) a subsidiary of B; or

    (c) a subsidiary of the holding company of B.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), a corporation (A) is, subject
to subsection (5), deemed to be a subsidiary of another corporation
(B) if —

    (a) B controls the composition of the board of directors of A;

    (b) B controls more than half of the voting power of A; or

    (c) A is a subsidiary of any corporation which is B’s subsidiary.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (3), the composition of A’s board
of directors is deemed to be controlled by B if B, by the exercise of a
power exercisable by it without the consent or concurrence of any
other person, can appoint or remove all or a majority of the directors,
and for the purposes of this provision, B is deemed to have power to
make such an appointment if —

    (a) a person cannot be appointed as a director without the
         exercise in the person’s favour by B of such a power; or

    (b) a person’s appointment as a director follows necessarily
         from that person being a director or other officer of B.

 (5) In determining whether one corporation (A) is the subsidiary of
another corporation (B) —

    (a) any shares held or power exercisable by B in a fiduciary
         capacity is treated as not held or exercisable by B;

    (b) subject to paragraphs (c) and (d), any shares held or power
         exercisable —

    (i) by any person as a nominee for B (except if B is
        concerned only in a fiduciary capacity); or

    (ii) by, or by a nominee for, a subsidiary of B, not being a
         subsidiary which is concerned only in a fiduciary
         capacity,

    (b) is to be treated as being held or exercisable by B;

    (c) any shares held or power exercisable by any person by
        virtue of the provisions of any debentures of A, or of a trust

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.               Singapore Act 2009                           80

          deed for securing any issue of such debentures, is to be
          disregarded; and

(d) any shares held or power exercisable by, or by a nominee
     for, B or its subsidiary (not being held or exercisable as
     mentioned in paragraph (c)) is to be treated as not held or
     exercisable by B if the ordinary business of B or its
     subsidiary (as the case may be) includes the lending of
     money and the shares are so held or power is so exercisable
     by way of security only for the purposes of a transaction
     entered into in the ordinary course of that business.

 (6) A reference in this section to the holding company of a
corporation is to a corporation of which the last mentioned
corporation is a subsidiary.

 (7) For the purposes of this section, the Depository is not to be
regarded as a holding company of a corporation by reason only of the
shares it holds in that corporation as a bare trustee.

 (8) Regulations made under section 102 may provide that any
person or class of persons are not associates of another person for the
purposes of any provision of this Part.

(9) In this section —

“Depository” has the meaning given by section 81SF of the
   Securities and Futures Act 2001;

“officer”, in relation to a corporation, means a director or
   secretary of, or any person employed in an executive capacity
   by, the corporation.

                                                                       [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Division 2 — Control of ownership and management, etc., of airport
                licensees and designated business trusts

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Control of equity interest or voting control in airport licensee

 57.—(1) A person must not, whether through a series of
transactions over a period of time or otherwise, become a
5% controller or an indirect controller of an airport licensee or a

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

81  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

designated business trust without obtaining the prior written approval
of the Authority.

 (2) The Authority may approve an application under subsection (1)
if the Authority is satisfied that —

    (a) the person who is to be the 5% controller or an indirect
         controller of the airport licensee (as the case may be) is a fit
         and proper person;

    (b) having regard to the person’s likely influence —

    (i) the airport licensee will continue to conduct its
        business prudently and comply with the provisions
        of this Act; or

    (ii) the trustee-manager of the business trust will
         continue to conduct the business of the business
         trust prudently and comply with the provisions of
         this Act; and

    (c) it is in the public interest to do so.

 (3) The approval of the Authority under this section may be granted
subject to the prescribed conditions and such additional conditions as
the Authority considers appropriate to impose in any particular case.

 (4) Any condition subject to which the Authority’s approval under
this section is granted has effect despite the provisions of any other
written law or anything contained in the memorandum or articles of
association, trust deed or other constitution of the airport licensee or
the business trust.

 (5) An airport licensee or the trustee-manager of a designated
business trust (as the case may be) must within the prescribed time
give written notice to the Authority if any person acquires equity
interest in the airport licensee or designated business trust, whether
through a series of transactions over a period of time or otherwise,
that would result in the person becoming a 5% controller or an
indirect controller of the airport licensee.

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (5) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        82

(a) in the case of an individual — to a fine not exceeding
     $500,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
     3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
     to a further fine not exceeding $50,000 for every day or
     part of a day during which the offence continues after
     conviction; or

(b) in any other case — to a fine not exceeding $1 million and,
     in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
     exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day during
     which the offence continues after conviction.

 (7) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of subsection (1), it is a defence for the person to prove
that —

(a) the person was not aware that the person had contravened
     subsection (1); or

(b) the person has, within a period of 14 days after becoming
     aware that the person had contravened subsection (1),
     notified the Authority of the contravention and, within
     such time as the Authority may determine, taken such
     actions in relation to the person’s holding of equity
     interests or control of voting power in the airport
     licensee or the business trust as the Authority may direct.

 (8) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of subsection (1), it is also a defence for the person to
prove that, even though the person was aware of the contravention —

(a) the contravention occurred as a result of an increase in the
     holding of equity interest, or in the voting power
     controlled, by any of the person’s associates in the
     airport licensee or designated business trust, as the case
     may be;

(b) the person has no agreement or arrangement, whether oral
     or in writing and whether express or implied, with that
     associate with respect to the acquisition, holding or
     disposal of equity interests or other interests in, or under

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

83  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    which they act together in exercising their voting power in
    relation to, the airport licensee or the business trust; and

    (c) the person has, within a period of 14 days after the date of
        the contravention, notified the Authority of the
        contravention and, within such time as the Authority
        may determine, taken such actions in relation to the
        person’s holding of equity interests or control of voting
        power in the airport licensee or the business trust as the
        Authority may direct.

 (9) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of subsection (5), it is a defence for the person to prove
that —

    (a) the person was not aware that the person had contravened
         subsection (5); and

    (b) the person has, within a period of 5 days after becoming
         aware that the person had contravened subsection (5),
         notified the Authority of the contravention.

 (10) Except as provided in subsections (7) and (8), it is not a
defence for a person charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of subsection (1) or (5) to prove that the person did not
intend to or did not knowingly contravene subsection (1) or (5).

Acquisition of airport licensee as going concern

 58.—(1) A person, whether or not the person has obtained any
approval of the Authority under section 57(1) or is exempted from
section 57(1), must not acquire as a going concern —

       (a) the business of an airport licensee (or any part thereof)
            conducted pursuant to its licence for an airport; or

       (b) the business (or any part thereof) of a designated business
            trust relating to an airport or any part thereof in respect of
            which, wholly or in part, the business trust is established,

unless the person and the airport licensee, or the trustee-manager of
the business trust (as the case may be) has obtained the prior written
approval of the Authority.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        84

 (2) The Authority may approve an application under subsection (1)
if the Authority is satisfied that —

(a) the person acquiring the business is a fit and proper person;

(b) the acquisition will not affect the security and reliability of
     the supply of airport services and facilities at the airport
     concerned to the public; and

          (c) it is in the public interest to do so.

 (3) The approval of the Authority under this section may be granted
subject to such conditions as the Authority considers appropriate.

 (4) Any condition imposed by the Authority under this section has
effect despite the provisions of any other written law or anything
contained in the memorandum or articles of association, trust deed or
other constitution of the airport licensee or the business trust.

 (5) An application for the Authority’s approval under subsection (1)
must —

(a) be made jointly by the person and by the airport licensee or
     the trustee-manager of the airport licensee that is a business
     trust, as the case may be; and

(b) be made in such form and manner as the Authority may
     specify.

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) in the case of an individual — to a fine not exceeding
     $500,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
     3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
     to a further fine not exceeding $50,000 for every day or
     part of a day during which the offence continues after
     conviction; or

(b) in any other case — to a fine not exceeding $1 million and,
     in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
     exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day during
     which the offence continues after conviction.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

85  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

Appointment of chief executive officer, director, etc., of airport
licensee

 59.—(1) An airport licensee must not appoint a person as its chief
executive officer, its director or the chairperson of its board of
directors unless it has obtained the prior written approval of the
Authority.

 (2) Where a person has been appointed by an airport licensee as its
chief executive officer, its director or the chairperson of its board of
directors in contravention of subsection (1), the Authority may issue a
direction to the airport licensee to remove the person as its chief
executive officer, its director or the chairperson of its board of
directors, as the case may be.

 (3) This section has effect despite the provisions of any other
written law or anything contained in the memorandum or articles of
association, or other constitution, of the airport licensee.

Remedial directions

 60.—(1) The Authority may issue any direction to a person under
subsection (2) or (3) if the Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) the person has contravened section 57(1) or 58(1);

       (b) in the case of a person who has obtained the Authority’s
            approval under section 57(1) or who has been exempted
            from section 57(1) —

               (i) the person is not or ceases to be a fit and proper
                   person;

              (ii) having regard to the person’s likely influence, the
                   airport licensee or the trustee-manager of the
                   business trust that is a designated business trust (as
                   the case may be) is not, or is no longer, likely to
                   conduct the business of the airport licensee or
                   business trust prudently or to comply with the
                   provisions of this Act; or

             (iii) it is not, or is no longer, in the public interest to allow
                   the person to continue to be a 5% controller or an
                   indirect controller, as the case may be;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        86

          (c) in the case of a person who has obtained the Authority’s
              approval under section 58(1) or who has been exempted
              from section 58(1), and who has acquired as a going
              concern a business mentioned in section 58(1) —

          (i) the person is not or ceases to be a fit and proper
              person; or

          (ii) it is not, or is no longer, in the public interest to allow
               the person to continue to own or manage that
               business;

(d) any condition of approval imposed on the person under
     section 57 or 58 has not been complied with;

          (e) the person has provided false or misleading information or
              documents in connection with the person’s application for
              approval under section 57 or 58; or

          (f) the Authority would not have granted its approval under
              section 57 or 58 had it been aware, at that time, of
              circumstances relevant to the person’s application for such
              approval.

 (2) Where a person is a 5% controller or an indirect controller of an
airport licensee or a designated business trust, the Authority may —

(a) direct the person to take such steps as are necessary, within
     such period as the Authority may specify, to ensure that the
     person ceases to be a 5% controller or an indirect controller
     of the airport licensee or designated business trust;

(b) direct the transfer or disposal of all or any of the equity
     interest held by the person or any of the person’s associates
     (called in this section and section 61 the specified equity
     interest) within such time and subject to such conditions as
     the Authority considers appropriate;

          (c) restrict the transfer or disposal of the specified equity
              interest; or

(d) make such other direction as the Authority considers
     appropriate.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

87  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

 (3) Where a person has acquired as a going concern a business
mentioned in section 58(1), the Authority may —

    (a) direct the person to transfer or dispose of all or any part of
         the business within such time and subject to such
         conditions as the Authority considers appropriate;

    (b) restrict the transfer or disposal of all or any part of the
         business; or

    (c) make such other direction as the Authority considers
        appropriate.

 (4) Before issuing any direction to a person under subsection (2) or
(3), the Authority must, unless the Authority decides that it is not
practicable or desirable to do so, give to the person written notice of
the Authority’s intention to issue the direction and specify a date by
which the person may make written representations with regard to the
proposed direction.

 (5) Upon receipt of any written representation mentioned in
subsection (4), the Authority must consider it for the purpose of
determining whether to issue the direction.

 (6) A person to whom a direction is issued under this section must
comply with the direction.

 (7) A person who contravenes subsection (6) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) in the case of an individual — to a fine not exceeding
         $500,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
         3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
         to a further fine not exceeding $50,000 for every day or
         part of a day during which the offence continues after
         conviction; or

    (b) in any other case — to a fine not exceeding $1 million and,
         in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
         exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day during
         which the offence continues after conviction.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        88

 (8) The Authority may, at any time, rescind, vary or discharge any
direction given by it under this section or suspend the operation of
any such direction.

Effect of remedial directions

 61.—(1) Any direction issued to a person under section 60 takes
effect despite the provisions of any other written law or anything
contained in the memorandum or articles of association, trust deed or
other constitution of the airport licensee.

 (2) Where any direction is issued under section 60(2)(a) or (b),
despite the provisions of any other written law or anything contained
in the memorandum or articles of association, trust deed or other
constitution, of the airport licensee or the business trust, as the case
may be —

       (a) no voting rights are exercisable in respect of the specified
            equity interest unless the Authority expressly permits such
            rights to be exercised;

       (b) no equity interest of the airport licensee, the entity or the
            business trust may be issued or offered (whether by way of
            rights, bonus or otherwise) in respect of the specified
            equity interest unless the Authority expressly permits such
            issue or offer; and

       (c) except in a winding up of the airport licensee, the entity or
            the business trust, no payment may be made by the airport
            licensee, the entity or the trustee-manager of the business
            trust of any amount (whether by way of dividends or
            otherwise) in respect of the specified equity interest unless
            the Authority expressly authorises that payment,

until the transfer or disposal is effected in accordance with the
direction or until the direction is revoked, as the case may be.

Head office to be in Singapore

 62.—(1) An airport licensee must ensure that its central
management and control is ordinarily exercised at a place within
Singapore.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

89  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

 (2) A contravention of subsection (1) does not affect the validity of
any transaction.

Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc., of airport licensees
and designated business trusts

 62A.—(1) Despite any other written law —

       (a) an airport licensee cannot be wound up voluntarily without
            the consent of the Authority;

       (b) a person must not make any application under section 210
            of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the Insolvency,
            Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to an
            airport licensee, unless that person has served 14 days’
            notice in writing of that person’s intention to make that
            application on the Authority;

       (c) no judicial management order under Part 7 of the
            Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 may
            be made in relation to an airport licensee without the
            consent of the Authority;

       (d) no interim judicial manager or judicial manager may be
            appointed under section 94 of the Insolvency,
            Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in respect of an
            airport licensee without the consent of the Authority;

       (e) a designated business trust cannot be wound up voluntarily
            without the consent of the Authority;

        (f) a person must not take any step to enforce any security
            over —

               (i) the property of an airport licensee; or

              (ii) the trust property of a designated business trust,

        (f) unless that person has served 14 days’ notice in writing of
            that person’s intention to take that step on the Authority;
            and

       (g) a person must not take any step to execute or enforce any
            judgment or order of court obtained against an airport
            licensee or a designated business trust unless that person

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        90

          has served 14 days’ notice in writing of that person’s
          intention to take that step on the Authority.

(2) The Authority must be a party to —

(a) any proceedings relating to the making of an order under
     section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the
     Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
     relation to an airport licensee;

(b) any proceedings relating to the making of a judicial
     management order under Part 7 of the Insolvency,
     Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to an
     airport licensee;

          (c) any proceedings under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
              Dissolution Act 2018 relating to the winding up of the
              affairs of an airport licensee; and

(d) any proceedings before any court for the dissolution,
     winding up or termination (as the case may be) of a
     designated business trust.

 (3) A court must, when deciding any proceedings mentioned in
subsection (2), take into consideration any representations made by
the Authority in those proceedings.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Non-application and modification of Division 2 provisions in
relation to Class 1 designated operating entities

 62B.—(1) Sections 57, 59, 60(1)(b) and (2), 61(2) and 62A do not
apply to or in relation to any airport licensee or designated business
trust that is also a Class 1 designated operating entity, starting on its
effective designation date and while it remains so designated.

 (2) Section 58 applies to or in relation to an airport licensee or a
designated business trust that is also a Class 1 designated operating
entity with the following modifications, starting on its effective
designation date and while it remains so designated:

       (a) the reference in section 58(1)(a) to the business of an
            airport licensee (or any part thereof) conducted pursuant to
            its licence for an airport is to such business (or any part

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

91  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    thereof) of the airport licensee where the operation of the
    airport is not an essential transport service;

    (b) the reference in section 58(1)(b) to the business (or any
         part thereof) of a designated business trust relating to an
         airport or any part thereof in respect of which, wholly or in
         part, the business trust is established is to such business (or
         any part thereof) where the operation of the airport is not an
         essential transport service.

 (3) Section 60 applies to or in relation to an airport licensee or a
designated business trust that is also a Class 1 designated operating
entity with the following modifications, starting on its effective
designation date and while it remains so designated:

    (a) the reference in section 60(1)(a) to section 57(1) or 58(1) is
         to section 58(1) as modified by subsection (2);

    (b) the reference in section 60(1)(c) and (3) to a business
         mentioned in section 58(1) is to a business mentioned in
         section 58(1) as modified by subsection (2).

                                                                        [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

    Division 3 — Control of ownership and management, etc., of
                              designated entities

                      Subdivision (1) — Preliminary

Extraterritorial application of this Division

 63.—(1) Except where otherwise expressly provided, this Part
applies to, and in relation to —

       (a) all individuals, whether resident in Singapore or not and
            whether citizens of Singapore or not; and

       (b) all bodies corporate or unincorporate, whether
            incorporated, formed, established, or carrying on
            business in Singapore or not.

 (2) Every person who, outside Singapore, commits an act or
omission that, if committed in Singapore, would constitute an offence
under this Part, is deemed to commit the act or omission in Singapore

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        92

and may be proceeded against, charged, tried and punished
accordingly.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

                Subdivision (2) — Designation of entities

Designation of designated operating entities and designated
equity interest holders

 64.—(1) The Authority may by notification in the Gazette —

       (a) designate an entity that provides any essential transport
            service in Singapore, or any business trust through which
            any essential transport service is provided in Singapore, as
            a designated operating entity; or

       (b) designate an entity that holds any equity interest in a
            designated operating entity as a designated equity interest
            holder,

if the Authority considers that the designation is necessary in the
public interest.

 (2) The Authority must inform the Minister of the Authority’s
decision to designate an entity before publishing the notification
under subsection (1) but the failure to do so does not invalidate the
designation.

 (3) The notification under subsection (1) —

       (a) must specify the date on which the designation takes effect;
            and

       (b) must be published in the Gazette at least 14 days before the
            date that the designation takes effect.

 (4) The Authority may by notification in the Gazette cancel a
designation at any time.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

93  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    Subdivision (3) — Control of designated entities

Notice to Authority by 5% controller of Class 2 designated
operating entity or designated equity interest holder

 65.—(1) This section applies only in relation to a designated entity
that is a Class 2 designated operating entity or a designated equity
interest holder.

 (2) If a person becomes a 5% controller of a designated entity on or
after the effective designation date as a result of an increase in the
holding of equity interest, or in the voting power controlled, by that
person or any associate of that person, that person must within 7 days
after becoming the 5% controller give written notice to the Authority
of that fact.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence.

 (4) In any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (2), it is a
defence for the accused to prove that the accused —

    (a) was not aware of the contravention when it occurred; and

    (b) notified the Authority of the contravention within a period
         of 14 days after becoming aware of the contravention.

 (5) In any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (2), it is
also a defence for the accused to prove that, though the accused was
aware of the contravention —

    (a) the contravention occurred as a result of an increase in the
         holding of equity interest, or in the voting power
         controlled, by any of the associates of the accused, in the
         designated entity;

    (b) the accused has no agreement or arrangement (whether
         oral or in writing and whether express or implied) with that
         associate with respect to the acquisition, holding or
         disposal of equity interests or other interests, or under
         which they act together in exercising their voting power, in
         relation to the designated entity; and

    (c) the accused notified the Authority of the contravention
        within a period of 7 days after the contravention.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        94

 (6) Except as provided in subsections (4) and (5), it is not a defence
in any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (2) to prove that
the accused did not intend to or did not knowingly contravene
subsection (2).

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Approvals of Authority in relation to equity interests and
control of voting power in designated entities in certain cases

 66.—(1) Except with the prior written approval of the Authority, a
person must not —

       (a) as a result of an increase in the holding of equity interest, or
            in the voting power controlled, by that person or any
            associate of that person, become a 5% controller, 25%
            controller, 50% controller or 75% controller of a Class 1
            designated operating entity on or after the effective
            designation date;

       (b) as a result of an increase in the holding of equity interest, or
            in the voting power controlled, by that person or any
            associate of that person, become a 25% controller, 50%
            controller or 75% controller of a Class 2 designated
            operating entity or designated equity interest holder on or
            after the effective designation date; or

       (c) as a result of a decrease in the holding of equity interest, or
            in the voting power controlled, by that person or any
            associate of that person, cease to be a 25% controller, 50%
            controller or 75% controller of a designated entity on or
            after the effective designation date.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the transaction through which a
person becomes a 5% controller, 25% controller, 50% controller or
75% controller, or ceases to be a 25% controller, 50% controller or
75% controller, is entered into before the effective designation date.

 (3) A person must not become an indirect controller of a designated
entity on or after the effective designation date unless the person has
obtained the prior written approval of the Authority.

 (4) The Authority may approve an application under
subsection (1)(a) or (b) or (3) if the Authority is satisfied that —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

95  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    (a) the person who is to become a 5% controller, 25%
         controller, 50% controller, 75% controller or indirect
         controller of a designated entity and every associate of
         that person known to the Authority, are fit and proper
         persons;

    (b) the provision of any essential transport service by the
         following (whichever is applicable) will continue to be
         secure and reliable:

    (i) the designated operating entity of which the person is
        to become a 5% controller, 25% controller, 50%
        controller, 75% controller or indirect controller;

    (ii) the trustee‑manager of the designated operating
         entity of which the person is to become a 5%
         controller, 25% controller, 50% controller, 75%
         controller or indirect controller;

    (iii) in the case where the person is to become a 5%
          controller, 25% controller, 50% controller, 75%
          controller or indirect controller of a designated
          equity interest holder — the designated operating
          entity, or the trustee-manager of the designated
          operating entity, in relation to which the designated
          equity interest holder is so designated;

    (c) having regard to the influence of the person mentioned in
        paragraph (a) and every associate of that person known to
        the Authority, the following requirements are met:

    (i) if the designated entity is a designated operating
        entity — the designated operating entity or, if the
        designated operating entity is a business trust, its
        trustee-manager, will continue to conduct the
        business of the designated operating entity
        prudently and comply with the provisions of this Act;

    (ii) if the designated entity is a designated equity interest
         holder —

    (A) the designated operating entity in respect of
         which the designated equity interest holder is

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        96

          so designated or, if that designated operating
          entity is a business trust, its trustee-manager,
          will continue to conduct the business of the
          designated operating entity prudently and
          comply with the provisions of this Act; and

          (B) the designated equity interest holder or, if the
               designated equity interest holder is a business
               trust, its trustee-manager, will continue to
               comply with the provisions of this Act; and

(d) it is in the public interest to do so.

 (5) The Authority may approve an application under
subsection (1)(c) if the Authority is satisfied that —

(a) the provision of any essential transport service by the
     following (whichever is applicable) will continue to be
     safe, reliable and efficient:

          (i) the designated operating entity of which the person is
              a 25% controller, 50% controller or 75% controller;

          (ii) the trustee‑manager of the designated operating
               entity of which the person is a 25% controller,
               50% controller or 75% controller;

          (iii) in the case where the person is a 25% controller, 50%
                controller or 75% controller of a designated equity
                interest holder — the designated operating entity, or
                the trustee-manager of the designated operating
                entity, in relation to which the designated equity
                interest holder is so designated;

(b) in the case where the person is a 25% controller, 50%
     controller or 75% controller of a designated operating
     entity — the designated operating entity or, if the
     designated operating entity is a business trust, its trustee-
     manager, will continue to conduct the business of the
     designated operating entity prudently and comply with the
     provisions of this Act;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

97  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    (c) in the case where the person is a 25% controller, 50%
        controller or 75% controller of a designated equity interest
        holder —

    (i) the designated operating entity in respect of which
        the designated equity interest holder is so designated
        or, if the designated operating entity is a business
        trust, its trustee-manager, will continue to conduct
        the business of the designated operating entity
        prudently and comply with the provisions of this
        Act; and

    (ii) the designated equity interest holder or, if the
         designated equity interest holder is a business trust,
         its trustee-manager, will continue to comply with the
         provisions of this Act; and

    (d) it is in the public interest to do so.

(6) The Authority may —

    (a) grant an approval under this section subject to any
         conditions that the Authority considers appropriate to
         impose; and

    (b) at any time add to, vary or revoke any condition so
         imposed.

 (7) Any condition imposed by the Authority under subsection (6)
has effect despite the provisions of any other written law or anything
contained in the memorandum or articles of association, limited
liability partnership agreement, partnership contract, trust deed or
other constitution of the designated entity in relation to which the
application for approval under subsection (1) or (3) is made.

 (8) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (3), or who fails
to comply with any condition imposed under subsection (6), shall be
guilty of an offence.

 (9) In any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (1), it is a
defence for the accused to prove that —

    (a) the accused was not aware of the contravention when it
         occurred;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        98

(b) the accused notified the Authority of the contravention
     within a period of 14 days after becoming aware of the
     contravention; and

          (c) if the Authority issued any direction under section 67E
              relating to the contravention —

          (i) the accused complied with the direction within the
              period determined by the Authority under that
              section; or

          (ii) the period determined by the Authority under that
               section for compliance with the direction has not
               expired.

 (10) In any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (1), it is
also a defence for the accused to prove that even though the accused
was aware of the contravention —

(a) the contravention occurred as a result of an increase or a
     decrease in the holding of equity interest, or in the voting
     power controlled, by any of the associates of the accused,
     in the designated entity;

(b) the accused has no agreement or arrangement (whether
     oral or in writing and whether express or implied) with that
     associate with respect to the acquisition, holding or
     disposal of equity interests or other interests, or under
     which they act together in exercising their voting power, in
     relation to the designated entity;

          (c) the accused notified the Authority of the contravention
              within a period of 7 days after the contravention or breach;
              and

(d) if the Authority issued any direction under section 67E
     relating to the contravention —

          (i) the accused complied with the direction within the
              period determined by the Authority under that
              section; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
    Civil Aviation Authority of

99  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

    (ii) the period determined by the Authority under that
         section for compliance with the direction has not
         expired.

 (11) In any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (3), it is a
defence for the accused to prove that —

    (a) the accused was not aware of the contravention when it
         occurred;

    (b) the accused notified the Authority of the contravention
         within a period of 14 days after the contravention; and

    (c) if the Authority issued any direction under section 67E
        relating to the contravention —

    (i) the accused complied with the direction within the
        period determined by the Authority under that
        section; or

    (ii) the period determined by the Authority under that
         section for compliance with the direction has not
         expired.

 (12) Except as provided in subsections (9), (10) and (11), it is not a
defence in any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (1) or
(3) to prove that the accused did not intend to or did not knowingly
contravene subsection (1) or (3).

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Appointment of chief executive officer, chairperson, director,
etc., of designated entity

 67.—(1) A Class 1 designated operating entity or, in the case of a
Class 1 designated operating entity that is a business trust, its trustee-
manager, must not, on or after the effective designation date, appoint
an individual as its chief executive officer, the chairperson of its
board of directors or any of its directors, unless the Class 1 designated
operating entity or the trustee-manager (as the case may be) has
obtained the prior written approval of the Authority.

 (2) A Class 2 designated operating entity or designated equity
interest holder or, in the case of a Class 2 designated operating entity
or designated equity interest holder that is a business trust, its trustee-

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        100

manager, must not, on or after the effective designation date, appoint
an individual as its chief executive officer or the chairperson of its
board of directors unless the Class 2 designated operating entity,
designated equity interest holder or trustee-manager (as the case may
be) has obtained the prior written approval of the Authority.

 (3) A person must not, on or after the effective designation date, be
appointed as a manager of, or become a partner in, a limited liability
partnership that is a designated entity unless the designated entity has
obtained the prior written approval of the Authority.

 (4) A person must not, on or after the effective designation date,
become a partner in a partnership that is a designated entity unless the
person has obtained the prior written approval of the Authority.

(5) The Authority may —

(a) grant an approval under this section subject to any
     conditions that the Authority considers appropriate to
     impose; and

(b) at any time add to, vary or revoke any condition so
     imposed.

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4), or
who fails to comply with any condition imposed under subsection (5),
shall be guilty of an offence.

 (7) This section has effect despite the provisions of any other
written law or anything contained in the memorandum or articles of
association, limited liability partnership agreement, partnership
contract, trust deed or other constitution, of the designated entity or
the trustee-manager of the designated entity in relation to which the
application for approval under subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4) is made.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Acquisition of business of designated operating entity as going
concern

 67A.—(1) A person must not, on or after the effective designation
date, acquire as a going concern, a designated operating entity’s
business of providing any essential transport service (or any part of
such business) unless —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

101  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     (a) the person; and

     (b) the designated operating entity or, if the designated
          operating entity is a business trust, its trustee-manager,

have obtained the prior written approval of the Authority.

 (2) An application for the Authority’s approval under subsection (1)
must be —

     (a) made jointly by the persons mentioned in subsection (1)(a)
          and (b); and

     (b) made in such form and manner as the Authority may
          specify.

 (3) The Authority may approve an application under subsection (1)
if the Authority is satisfied that —

     (a) the person acquiring the business or part is a fit and proper
          person;

     (b) after the acquisition, the provision of the essential transport
          service mentioned in subsection (1) will continue to be
          secure and reliable;

     (c) in the case where after the acquisition, the designated
         operating entity continues to carry on part of the business
         mentioned in subsection (1) — the designated operating
         entity or, if the designated operating entity is a business
         trust, its trustee-manager, will continue to conduct the
         business of the designated operating entity prudently and
         comply with the provisions of this Act; and

     (d) it is in the public interest to do so.

(4) The Authority may —

     (a) grant an approval under this section subject to any
          conditions that the Authority considers appropriate to
          impose; and

     (b) at any time add to, vary or revoke any condition so
          imposed.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        102

 (5) This section has effect despite the provisions of any other
written law or anything contained in the memorandum or articles of
association, limited liability partnership agreement, partnership
contract, trust deed or other constitution, of the designated
operating entity.

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), or who fails to
comply with any condition imposed under subsection (4), shall be
guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Occurrence of certain events

 67B.—(1) A designated entity or, in the case of a designated entity
that is a business trust, its trustee-manager, must notify the Authority
of any of the following agreements at least 14 days before entering
into the agreement:

       (a) in the case of a designated entity that is a designated
            operating entity — an agreement for the outsourcing of a
            material function performed by the designated operating
            entity in the provision of any essential transport service;

       (b) any agreement prescribed under section 102.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to any agreement
entered into before the expiry of 14 days after the effective
designation date.

 (3) A designated entity or, in the case of a designated entity that is a
business trust, its trustee-manager, must notify the Authority of the
occurrence of any of the following events within 7 days after
becoming aware of the occurrence:

       (a) in the case of a designated entity that is a designated
            operating entity —

               (i) any civil or criminal proceedings (whether in
                   Singapore or elsewhere) instituted against the
                   designated entity or, if the designated entity is a
                   business trust, its trustee-manager, that materially
                   impedes or impairs the operations of the designated

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

103  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     entity carried out in the course of providing any
     essential transport service; or

     (ii) any other event or irregularity that materially
          impedes or impairs the operations of the
          designated entity carried out in the course of
          providing any essential transport service;

     (b) the designated entity or, if the designated entity is a
          business trust, its trustee-manager, being or becoming, or
          being likely to become, insolvent;

     (c) the designated entity or, if the designated entity is a
         business trust, its trustee-manager —

     (i) being wound up or subject to any receivership or
         judicial management order; or

     (ii) entering into a compromise or scheme of
          arrangement;

     (d) in the case of a designated entity that is a business trust —
          the business trust being wound up or deregistered or the
          making of an application for the deregistration of the
          business trust;

     (e) any other event prescribed under section 102.

 (4) Subsection (3) does not apply where the designated entity or
trustee-manager (as the case may be) becomes aware of the
occurrence of the event before the effective designation date.

 (5) The Authority may, upon receiving a notification under
subsection (1) or (3) in relation to an agreement or the occurrence
of an event, direct the designated entity or trustee-manager in
question to submit to the Authority any information or document
relating to the agreement or event within the period specified by the
Authority.

(6) Any person who —

     (a) contravenes subsection (1) or (3);

     (b) fails to comply with a direction of the Authority under
          subsection (5); or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        104

          (c) submits any false or misleading information or document
              in compliance or purported compliance with a direction of
              the Authority under subsection (5),

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Duty of designated entity or trustee-manager to report changes
of equity and control of certain persons

 67C.—(1) If a designated entity or, in the case of a designated
entity that is a business trust, its trustee-manager, becomes aware
that —

       (a) a person has, on or after the effective designation date,
            become a 5% controller, 25% controller, 50% controller or
            75% controller of the designated entity;

       (b) a 25% controller, 50% controller or 75% controller of the
            designated entity has, on or after the effective designation
            date, ceased to be a 25% controller, 50% controller or 75%
            controller (as the case may be) of the designated entity;

       (c) a person has, on or after the effective designation date,
            become an indirect controller of the designated entity; or

       (d) in a case where the designated entity is a designated
            operating entity — a person has, on or after the effective
            designation date, acquired as a going concern, the
            designated operating entity’s business of providing any
            essential transport service (or any part of such business),

the designated entity or trustee-manager (as the case may be) must
inform the Authority in writing within 7 days after becoming aware of
that fact.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

105  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc., of designated
operating entities

67D.—(1) Despite any other written law —

     (a) a designated operating entity that is a corporation or
          limited liability partnership cannot be wound up
          voluntarily without the consent of the Authority;

     (b) a designated operating entity that is a partnership cannot be
          dissolved —

     (i) by a partner giving notice to the other partner or
         partners (as the case may be) of the partner’s
         intention to dissolve the partnership; or

     (ii) by the partners agreeing to dissolve the partnership,

     (b) without the consent of the Authority;

     (c) a designated operating entity that is a business trust cannot
         be wound up voluntarily without the consent of the
         Authority;

     (d) a person must not make any application under section 210
          of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the Insolvency,
          Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to a
          designated operating entity that is a corporation, unless that
          person has served 14 days’ notice in writing of that
          person’s intention to make that application on the
          Authority;

     (e) no judicial management order under Part 7 of the
         Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 may
         be made in relation to a designated operating entity that is a
         corporation without the consent of the Authority;

     (f) no interim judicial manager or judicial manager may be
         appointed under section 94 of the Insolvency,
         Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in respect of a
         designated operating entity that is a corporation without
         the consent of the Authority;

     (g) a person must not take any step to enforce any security
          over —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        106

          (i) the property of a designated operating entity; or

          (ii) in the case of a designated operating entity that is a
               business trust — the trust property of the trust,

(g) unless that person has served 14 days’ notice in writing of
     that person’s intention to take that step on the Authority;
     and

(h) a person must not take any step to execute or enforce any
     judgment or order of court obtained against a designated
     operating entity unless that person has served 14 days’
     notice in writing of that person’s intention to take that step
     on the Authority.

(2) The Authority must be a party to —

(a) any proceedings relating to the making of an order under
     section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the
     Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
     relation to a designated operating entity that is a
     corporation;

(b) any proceedings relating to the making of a judicial
     management order under Part 7 of the Insolvency,
     Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to a
     designated operating entity that is a corporation;

          (c) any proceedings under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
              Dissolution Act 2018 relating to the winding up of the
              affairs of a designated operating entity that is a company or
              an unregistered company;

(d) any proceedings under the Limited Liability Partnerships
     Act 2005 relating to the winding up of the affairs of a
     designated operating entity that is a limited liability
     partnership; and

          (e) any proceedings before any court for the dissolution,
              winding up or termination (as the case may be) of any
              designated operating entity that is an entity not mentioned
              in paragraph (c) or (d).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

107  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

 (3) A court must, when deciding any proceedings mentioned in
subsection (2), take into consideration any representations made by
the Authority in those proceedings.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

                 Subdivision (4) — Remedial directions

Remedial directions relating to section 66

 67E.—(1) Subsection (2), (3) or (4) applies if —

       (a) the Authority is satisfied that a person (called in this
            section a defaulter) —

               (i) has contravened section 66(1) or (3) or failed to
                   comply with a condition imposed on that person
                   under section 66(6); or

              (ii) has provided false or misleading information or
                   documents in connection with an application for
                   approval under section 66(1) or (3); or

       (b) the Authority would not have granted its approval under
            section 66(1) or (3) had it been aware, at the time of
            approval, of circumstances relevant to a defaulter’s
            application for such approval.

 (2) Where the defaulter is a 5% controller, 25% controller, 50%
controller or 75% controller of the designated entity, the Authority
may do any one or more of the following:

       (a) direct the defaulter to take such steps as are necessary,
            within the period specified by the Authority, to cease to be
            a 5% controller, 25% controller, 50% controller or 75%
            controller (as the case may be) of the designated entity;

       (b) direct the transfer or disposal of all or any of the equity
            interests in the designated entity held by the defaulter or
            any of the defaulter’s associates (called in this section and
            section 67F the section 67E(2) equity interests), within
            such time and subject to such conditions as the Authority
            considers appropriate;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        108

          (c) restrict or prohibit the transfer or disposal of all or any of
              the section 67E(2) equity interests, subject to any
              conditions that the Authority considers appropriate;

(d) make any other direction that the Authority considers
     appropriate.

 (3) Where, as a result of a person (called in this subsection the
transferee) acquiring any equity interests from the defaulter who is a
25% controller, 50% controller or 75% controller of the designated
entity (called in this section and section 67F the section 67E(3) equity
interests), the defaulter ceases to be a 25% controller, 50% controller
or 75% controller (as the case may be) of the designated entity, the
Authority may do one or more of the following:

(a) direct the transferee to take such steps as are necessary,
     within the period specified by the Authority, to cease to
     hold all or any of the section 67E(3) equity interests;

(b) direct the defaulter to take such steps as are necessary
     within the period specified by the Authority, to resume
     being a 25% controller, 50% controller or 75% controller
     (as the case may be) of the designated entity;

          (c) direct the acquisition, transfer or disposal of all or any of
              the section 67E(3) equity interests within such time and
              subject to such conditions as the Authority considers
              appropriate;

(d) restrict or prohibit the transfer or disposal of all or any of
     the section 67E(3) equity interests, subject to any
     conditions that the Authority considers appropriate;

          (e) make any other direction that the Authority considers
              appropriate.

 (4) Where the defaulter is an indirect controller of the designated
entity, the Authority may do one or both of the following:

(a) direct the defaulter, or direct the designated entity or, if the
     designated entity is a business trust, its trustee-manager, to
     take such steps as are necessary, within the period specified
     by the Authority, to cease to be such an indirect controller

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

109  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     or to cause the defaulter to cease to be such an indirect
     controller;

     (b) make any other direction that the Authority considers
          appropriate.

                                                                         [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Effect of remedial directions issued under section 67E, etc.

 67F.—(1) Any direction issued to a person, and any condition
imposed, under section 67E(2) or (3) take effect, despite —

       (a) any other written law;

       (b) anything in any listing rules as defined in section 2(1) of
            the Securities and Futures Act 2001; and

       (c) the provisions of the memorandum or articles of
            association, limited liability partnership agreement,
            partnership contract, trust deed or other constitution of
            the designated entity in question.

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), where any direction is issued
under section 67E(2) or (3), then, until the direction is carried out or is
suspended or revoked —

       (a) the voting rights in respect of the section 67E(2) equity
            interests or section 67E(3) equity interests that are subject
            to the direction are not exercisable, unless the Authority
            expressly permits those rights to be exercised;

       (b) the voting power that the person to whom the direction is
            issued controls, whether alone or together with that
            person’s associates, in the designated entity is not
            exercisable, unless the Authority expressly permits that
            power to be exercised;

       (c) no equity interest in the designated entity is to be issued or
            offered (whether by way of dividends or otherwise) in
            respect of the section 67E(2) equity interests or
            section 67E(3) equity interests that are subject to the
            direction, unless the Authority expressly permits that issue
            or offer; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        110

(d) no amount may be paid (whether by way of profits, income
     or otherwise) in respect of the section 67E(2) equity
     interests or section 67E(3) equity interests that are subject
     to the direction, unless the Authority expressly authorises
     such payment.

 (3) Subsection (2)(d) does not apply in the event of the winding up,
dissolution, termination or deregistration of the designated entity.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Remedial directions relating to section 67

 67G.—(1) Subsection (2) applies where —

       (a) an individual has been appointed in contravention of
            section 67(1) or (2), or a person has been appointed as a
            manager of or becomes a partner in a designated entity in
            contravention of section 67(3) or (4);

       (b) any condition of approval imposed under section 67(5) has
            not been complied with;

       (c) any of the following persons has provided false or
            misleading information or documents to the Authority in
            connection with an application for approval under
            section 67(1), (2), (3) or (4):

               (i) a designated entity;

              (ii) the trustee-manager of a designated entity;

             (iii) the person mentioned in section 67(4); or

       (d) the Authority would not have granted its approval under
            section 67(1), (2), (3) or (4) had it been aware, at the time
            of approval, of circumstances relevant to a person’s
            application for such approval.

 (2) The Authority may issue a direction to the designated entity or
trustee-manager in question (as the case may be) to do as follows
(whichever is applicable):

       (a) remove the individual as the chief executive officer, the
            chairperson of the board of directors or a director of the
            designated entity or trustee-manager, as the case may be;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

111  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     (b) remove the person as a manager of or partner in the
          designated entity.

 (3) A direction issued under this section (including a direction
varied under section 67I(2)) has effect despite the provisions of any
other written law or anything contained in the memorandum or
articles of association, limited liability partnership, partnership
contract, trust deed or other constitution, of the designated entity or
trustee-manager in question.

 (4) Nothing in subsection (2) is to be taken as depriving a person
who is removed under that subsection of compensation or damages
payable to the person in respect of the termination of his or her
appointment as the chief executive officer, the chairperson of the
board of directors, a director, or the person’s removal as a manager or
partner.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Remedial directions relating to section 67A

 67H.—(1) Subsection (2) applies where —

       (a) a person has contravened section 67A(1); or

       (b) where the Authority has granted its approval under
            section 67A(1) —

               (i) any condition of approval imposed under
                   section 67A(4) has not been complied with;

              (ii) either of the joint applicants mentioned in
                   section 67A(1)(a) or (b) has provided false or
                   misleading information or documents to the
                   Authority in connection with the application for
                   the approval;

             (iii) the Authority would not have granted its approval
                   under section 67A(1) had it been aware, at the time
                   of approval, of circumstances relevant to the
                   application for such approval.

 (2) The Authority may —

       (a) direct the person who has acquired as a going concern the
            business or part of the business mentioned in

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        112

          section 67A(1) to transfer or dispose of all or any part of
          the business within such time and subject to such
          conditions as the Authority considers appropriate;

(b) prohibit or restrict the transfer or disposal of all or any part
     of the business; or

          (c) issue any other direction that the Authority considers
              appropriate.

 (3) A direction issued under this section (including a direction
varied under section 67I(2)) has effect despite the provisions of any
other written law or anything contained in the memorandum or
articles of association, limited liability partnership, partnership
contract, trust deed or other constitution, of the designated
operating entity in question.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Other provisions relating to remedial directions

 67I.—(1) Before issuing any direction to a person under
section 67E, 67G or 67H, the Authority must —

       (a) unless the Authority decides that it is not practicable or
            desirable to do so, give the person written notice of the
            Authority’s intention to issue the direction and specify a
            date by which the person may make written representations
            with regard to the direction; and

       (b) consider every written representation from the person
            received on or before the specified date mentioned in
            paragraph (a).

 (2) The Authority may, at any time, revoke, vary or discharge, or
suspend the operation of, any direction given by it under section 67E,
67G or 67H.

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with a direction issued by the
Authority under section 67E, 67G or 67H (including a direction that
is varied under subsection (2)) within the period specified by the
Authority shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

113  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     Subdivision (5) — Business continuity

Business continuity of designated operating entities

 67J.—(1) A designated operating entity or, in the case of a
designated operating entity that is a business trust, its trustee-
manager, must —

     (a) maintain at all times a plan of action (called in this section
          a business continuity plan) that sets out —

     (i) the procedures and establishes the systems necessary
         to restore the reliable and secure provision of any
         essential transport service provided by or through the
         entity in the event of any disruption to the operations
         of the designated operating entity carried out in the
         course of providing the essential transport service;
         and

     (ii) such other matters as the Authority may specify; and

     (b) submit a copy of the business continuity plan to the
          Authority for the Authority’s approval within such time
          specified by the Authority.

 (2) A designated operating entity or, in the case of a designated
operating entity that is a business trust, its trustee-manager, must
review the business continuity plan —

     (a) at such frequency as the Authority may specify; or

     (b) in the absence of any specification by the Authority under
          paragraph (a) — once every 5 years.

 (3) A designated operating entity or, in the case of a designated
operating entity that is a business trust, its trustee-manager, must as
soon as practicable notify the Authority of any activation of its
business continuity plan and of any action taken or intended to be
taken to restore the reliable and secure provision of any essential
transport service provided by or through the entity.

 (4) A designated operating entity or, in the case of a designated
operating entity that is a business trust, its trustee-manager, must
within 14 days or any longer period that may be permitted by the
Authority, inform the Authority of any material change to the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        114

business continuity plan and must submit a copy of the new or
amended business continuity plan for the Authority’s approval.

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or to both.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

            Subdivision (6) — Appeals under this Division

Appeal to Minister

 67K.—(1) Any person who is aggrieved by a decision of the
Authority —

       (a) to designate an entity under section 64;

       (b) to refuse to grant an approval required under section 66, 67
            or 67A;

       (c) to impose, add to or vary any condition under section 66,
            67 or 67A; or

       (d) to issue a direction under section 67E, 67G or 67H or to
            vary a direction under section 67I(2),

may, within 14 days after being informed of the decision, appeal to
the Minister whose decision is final.

 (2) Despite the fact that any appeal under subsection (1)(c) is
pending in relation to any direction under section 67E, 67G or 67H or
any variation of a direction under section 67I(2), that direction or that
direction as varied takes effect from the date specified by the
Authority, unless the Minister otherwise directs.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Designation of others to hear appeals under this Division

 67L. The Minister may designate any Minister of State, Senior
Minister of State, Parliamentary Secretary or Senior Parliamentary
Secretary for his or her Ministry, to hear and determine, in the
Minister’s place, any appeals or a specific appeal under section 67K;
and any reference in that section to the Minister includes a reference
to the Minister of State, Senior Minister of State, Parliamentary

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

115  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

Secretary or Senior Parliamentary Secretary so designated for that
appeal.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

                        Subdivision (7) — Penalties

Penalties under this Division

 67M. A person guilty of an offence under this Division (except the
offence under section 67J(5)) shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual — to a fine not exceeding
            $500,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3
            years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to
            a further fine not exceeding $50,000 for every day or part
            of a day during which the offence continues after
            conviction; or

       (b) in any other case — to a fine not exceeding $1 million and,
            in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

                                    PART 6

                         AIRPORT OPERATIONS

By-laws

 68.—(1) An airport licensee or exempt airport operator for an
airport may, from time to time, after consulting the Authority and
with the approval of the Minister, make by-laws in relation to the
airport it is licensed to operate.

 (2) By-laws under this section may be made for any one or more of
the following purposes in relation to an airport:

       (a) providing for the proper management, operation,
            supervision, safety and security of the airport;

       (b) securing the safety of, and preventing injury and damage
            to, aircraft, vehicles and persons using or within the
            airport, including —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        116

          (i) measures (which may involve the use of reasonable
              force) to extinguish and prevent the spread of fire or
              for protecting life and property in case of fire; and

          (ii) measures that restrict entry into, egress from, or
               movement or conduct in any particular part of the
               airport;

          (c) providing for the restriction and control of any activity or
              the provision of services in the airport;

(d) providing for matters relating to airport or airside
     operations (including procedures relating to the fuelling
     of aircraft, the operation of equipment and vehicles, the
     handling of baggage and the servicing of and access to
     aircraft and related matters);

          (e) providing for matters relating to cargo operations
              (including procedures relating to flammable or
              dangerous substances, restriction on loads and related
              matters);

          (f) defining the duties of persons in command or control of
              any aircraft for the time being on the ground in an airport;

(g) providing for the issuance of any permit or pass authorising
     the entry or admission of persons and vehicles into the
     airport (including procedures relating to the renewal,
     suspension, cancellation, surrender and loss of any such
     permit and pass and prescribing the fees therefor and
     related matters);

(h) specifying the routes to be used by aircraft and vehicles;

          (i) the prohibition or restriction and control of the use of
              specified roads within the airport (except roads within the
              airport to which the Road Traffic Act 1961 applies) by
              persons or vehicles generally or during particular hours or
              at particular times or in particular circumstances;

          (j) regulating vehicular traffic generally on those roads
              including speed of traffic;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

117  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     (k) prohibiting the keeping or leaving of any vehicles
         stationary in any place in the airport for a purpose not
         permitted or not in accordance with the conditions (if any)
         prescribed by the by‑laws;

     (l) providing for the fixing and removal of an immobilisation
         device to any vehicle which has been unlawfully parked in
         any place in the airport and specifying the conditions,
         including payment of fees, for the removal of those
         immobilisation devices;

     (m) providing for the safe custody and re-delivery or disposal
          by the airport licensee or exempt airport operator of any
          property found in the airport or in any aircraft or vehicle
          therein, the fixing of the charges payable to the airport
          licensee or exempt airport operator in respect of the safe
          custody or re-delivery, and the application, if any such
          property is disposed of by being sold, of the moneys arising
          from the sale;

     (n) regulating the admission and exclusion from the airport of
          persons, animals or vehicles;

     (o) prohibiting trespassing on the airport by persons, vehicles
          or animals;

     (p) regulating the formation of queues of persons and vehicles
          within, or seeking admission to, the airport;

     (q) preserving order and good conduct in the airport;

     (r) preventing nuisances in the airport;

       (s) prescribing fees and charges for the use of the airport, or
            for any airport services and facilities provided by the
            airport licensee or exempt airport operator.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (3) In making any by‑law under this section, the airport licensee or
exempt airport operator for an airport may —

     (a) define, in such manner as it thinks proper, what constitutes,
          for the purposes of any provision of the by‑laws, a class of
          persons or vehicles;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        118

(b) make different provisions in relation to different parts of
     the airport;

          (c) make different provisions in relation to different classes of
              persons to whom the by‑laws apply;

(d) make different provisions in relation to different classes of
     vehicles to which the by‑laws apply; and

          (e) exclude from the application of the by‑laws any particular
              class of persons or vehicles specified in the by‑laws.

 (4) A person who contravenes a by‑law made under this section
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
which may extend to $2,000, and a police officer may use such force
as is reasonable and necessary to arrest and detain the person for the
purpose of removing the person from or preventing the person’s entry
or re‑entry to the airport concerned, or to remove the person from the
airport concerned.

 (5) Where any vehicle is parked in contravention of any by-law, or
any vehicle or other property appears to have been abandoned within
the airport, and the airport licensee or exempt airport operator
authorised to operate that airport has incurred any expenses in
removing or detaining the vehicle or property, all such expenses
reasonably incurred by the airport licensee or exempt airport operator
in removing and detaining any such vehicle or property are
recoverable in a court of competent jurisdiction from the owner of
the vehicle or property (as the case may be) as if the expenses were a
debt due to the airport licensee or exempt airport operator, as the case
may be.

 (6) All by‑laws made under this section must be published in the
Gazette, and the cost of such publication must be borne by the airport
licensee or exempt airport operator by which the by‑laws were made.

 (7) All by‑laws made under this section must be displayed
prominently at the airport, in respect of which the by‑laws are
made, in such manner as the airport licensee or exempt airport
operator which made them considers best adapted for giving
information to the public.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

119  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

 (8) No by-law made under this section is to be inconsistent with any
law for the time being in force in Singapore and any such by‑law
which is so inconsistent is void to the extent of that inconsistency.

 (9) In addition to subsection (8), no by-law made under this section
is binding on the Authority to the extent (if any) to which the by-law
would impede or affect the performance by the Authority or any of its
employees of any function or duty or the exercise of any power
conferred on the Authority or its employees under any other provision
of this Act or the Air Navigation Act 1966 or any subsidiary
legislation made under either Act.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

Powers to ensure compliance with by-laws, etc.

 68A.—(1) An authorised airport employee of an airport licensee or
exempt airport operator for an airport may by written notice require
any person using or who has used, or within, the airport (called a
person of interest) to provide, within a reasonable period and in the
form and manner specified in the notice, any documents or
information which —

       (a) relate to any matter which the airport licensee, exempt
            airport operator or authorised airport employee (as the case
            may be) considers necessary for an enforcement purpose
            concerning that airport; and

       (b) are within the knowledge, or in or under the custody or
            control, of the person of interest.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (2) The power to require a person of interest to provide any
document or information under subsection (1) includes the power —

       (a) to require the person of interest, or any individual who is or
            was an officer, agent or employee of the person of interest,
            to provide an explanation of the document or information;

       (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
            the person of interest, or that individual mentioned in
            paragraph (a), to state, to the best of the knowledge and
            belief of that person or individual, where the document or
            information is; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        120

       (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            airport licensee, exempt airport operator or authorised
            airport employee (as the case may be) in legible form.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (3) An authorised airport employee is entitled without payment to
keep any document or information, or any copy or extract thereof,
provided to him or her under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (4) For an enforcement purpose concerning an airport, an
authorised airport employee of an airport licensee or exempt
airport operator (as the case may be) for the airport is entitled, at
all reasonable times —

(a) to full and free access to any place or aircraft within the
     airport;

(b) to examine or observe any activity conducted in or on the
     place or aircraft;

          (c) to inspect and examine any thing in or on the place or
              aircraft;

(d) to make any still or moving image or any recording of the
     place or any thing in or on the place or aircraft;

          (e) to inspect any document in the place or aircraft and make
              copies of, or take extracts from, any such document;

          (f) to take onto the place or aircraft such equipment and
              materials as the authorised airport employee requires for
              the purpose of exercising powers in this subsection in
              relation to the place or aircraft;

(g) to operate electronic equipment in or on the place or
     aircraft; and

(h) to require any individual found in the place or aircraft to
     answer, or to attend before the authorised airport employee
     to answer, any question (to the best of that individual’s
     knowledge, information and belief) and to provide any
     document or information.

                                                                                                 [18/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

121  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

 (5) The power under subsection (4)(g) to operate electronic
equipment in or on any place or aircraft includes —

     (a) the power to use a disk, tape or other storage device that is
          in or on the place or aircraft and can be used with the
          equipment or in association with the equipment;

     (b) the power to operate electronic equipment in or on the
          place or aircraft to put the relevant data in documentary
          form and remove the documents so produced from the
          place or aircraft; and

     (c) the power to operate electronic equipment in or on the
         place or aircraft to transfer the relevant data to a disk, tape
         or other storage device that —

     (i) is brought to the place or aircraft for the exercise of
         the power; or

     (ii) is in or on the place or aircraft and the use of which
          for that purpose has been agreed in writing by the
          occupier of the place or aircraft,

       (c) and remove the disk, tape or other storage device from that
            place or aircraft.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (6) Any statement made by any individual in answer to a question
under subsection (4)(h) must —

     (a) be reduced to writing;

     (b) be read over to the individual;

     (c) if the individual does not understand English, be
         interpreted in a language that the individual understands;
         and

      (d) after correction (if necessary) be signed by that individual.

                                                                                                         [18/2018]

(7) An individual or a person —

     (a) who intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any
          document or information which the individual or person

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        122

          has been required by a notice under subsection (1) or under
          subsection (4)(h) to provide; or

(b) who, in providing any document or information required
     under subsection (1) or (4)(h) makes any statement which
     the individual or person knows or ought reasonably to
     know that, or is reckless as to whether, it is false or
     misleading in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (8) An individual or a person who, without reasonable excuse, fails
to do anything required of the individual or person by notice under
subsection (1) or (4)(h) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (9) However, an individual or a person is not subject to a
requirement under subsection (1) or (4)(h) if —

(a) the individual or person does not possess the document or
     information required; or

       (b) the individual or person has taken all reasonable steps
            available to the individual or person to obtain the document
            or information required and is unable to obtain it.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (10) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of subsection (8), it is a
reasonable excuse for an individual or a person to refuse or fail to
provide any information, produce any document or answer any
question if doing so might tend to incriminate that individual or
person.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (11) In this section —

“authorised airport employee”, for an airport, means —

          (a) an employee of an airport licensee for the airport who
               is authorised by the Authority to exercise a power

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

123  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     under this section in connection with an enforcement
     purpose relating to that airport; or

     (b) an employee of an exempt airport operator for the
          airport who is authorised by the Authority to exercise
          a power under this section in connection with an
          enforcement purpose relating to that airport;

     “enforcement purpose”, in relation to an airport, means —

     (a) determining whether the provisions of the by-laws
          made under section 68 in relation to the airport, or
          any conditions imposed on any approval or
          permission granted under those by‑laws, are being
          complied with;

     (b) investigating any offence under the provisions of the
          by‑laws made under section 68 in relation to the
          airport; or

     (c) determining whether information provided to the
         airport licensee or exempt airport operator for the
         airport under a provision of the by-laws made under
         section 68 in relation to the airport is correct.

                                                                                            [18/2018]

Relocation of abandoned aircraft, etc.

 69.—(1) If —

       (a) an aircraft at an airport is —

               (i) in a state of disrepair; and

              (ii) interfering, or is likely to interfere, with the operation
                   of the airport; or

       (b) an aircraft at an airport is apparently abandoned,

the airport licensee or exempt airport operator for the airport may,
with the approval of the Authority, cause the aircraft to be moved to
another part of the airport, so long as that movement is carried out
with reasonable care.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        124

 (2) No person shall be liable to an action or other proceeding,
whether civil or criminal, for or in relation to an act done in
accordance with subsection (1).

 (3) Subsection (1) does not limit, restrict or otherwise affect any
right or remedy the airport licensee or exempt airport operator would
have if this section had not been enacted.

 (4) Where the airport licensee or exempt airport operator for an
airport has incurred any expenses in removing any aircraft under this
section, all such expenses reasonably incurred by the airport licensee
or exempt airport operator in removing any such aircraft are
recoverable in a court of competent jurisdiction from the owner of
the aircraft as if the expenses were a debt due to the airport licensee or
exempt airport operator, as the case may be.

 (5) In this section, “aircraft” includes an object that was designed or
adapted for use as an aircraft but is incapable of being so used because
one or more parts have been removed from it, or it is in a wrecked or
damaged condition.

Disposal of unclaimed aircraft, vehicle, etc.

 69A.—(1) An aircraft or a vehicle, or an article or a thing, which is
moved —

       (a) by an airport licensee or exempt airport operator for an
            airport, or an authorised airport employee, under the
            by‑laws made under section 68 for the airport; or

       (b) with the approval of the Authority, by an airport licensee or
            exempt airport operator for an airport under section 69,

must be detained in a holding area until the aircraft or vehicle, or
article or thing, is released by order of the airport licensee or exempt
airport operator concerned, or is sold or disposed of in accordance
with this section.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (2) Subject to subsection (9), where an aircraft or a vehicle, or an
article or a thing, is moved to a holding area under subsection (1), it
becomes unclaimed if, at the end of the prescribed period starting

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

125  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

after the day on which the aircraft, vehicle, article or thing was so
moved —

     (a) there is no person who appears, to the satisfaction of the
          airport licensee or exempt airport operator concerned, to be
          the owner of the aircraft, vehicle, article or thing, as the
          case may be; or

     (b) there is such a person but that person —

     (i) has not been located after reasonable inquiry by the
         airport licensee or exempt airport operator
         concerned; or

              (ii) has not exercised the person’s right to recover the
                   aircraft, vehicle, article or thing by a claim.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (3) Where an aircraft or a vehicle, or an article or a thing, which is
moved to a holding area under subsection (1) becomes unclaimed, an
authorised airport employee of an airport licensee or exempt airport
operator duly authorised for this purpose may, subject to
subsection (9) and after giving notice in accordance with
subsection (4) of his, her or its intention to do so and, in the case
of an aircraft, with the approval of the Authority —

     (a) sell the aircraft, vehicle, article or thing (as the case may
          be) and any uncollected item left in or on the aircraft,
          vehicle, article or thing, as prescribed by regulations; or

      (b) destroy or otherwise dispose of the aircraft, vehicle, article
           or thing and any uncollected item left in or on the aircraft,
           vehicle, article or thing, as prescribed by regulations.

                                                                                                         [18/2018]

(4) The notice required by subsection (3) is given —

     (a) by publishing a notice of the sale or disposal in the Gazette
          at least one month before taking any action under that
          subsection; and

     (b) in the case of an aircraft, by taking other reasonable steps
          to give at least one month’s notice of the sale or disposal to
          the persons mentioned in section 92(3)(a), (b) and (c).

                                                                                                      [18/2018]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        126

 (5) The proceeds of a sale or disposal under this section of any
aircraft, and any uncollected item left in or on an aircraft, under
subsection (3), must be applied successively as follows:

(a) firstly, in the discharge of any levy under Part 9 if a
     statutory lien on the aircraft is in effect at the time of sale or
     disposal;

(b) secondly, in the discharge of services charges, penalties
     and interest under Part 9 in the order in which they became
     payable;

          (c) thirdly, in payment of the expenses occasioned by the sale
              or disposal;

(d) fourthly, in payment of storage or other expenses incurred
     respectively by the Authority and the airport licensee or
     exempt airport operator (as the case may be) in relation to
     the aircraft;

       (e) lastly, by payment of the balance to the airport licensee or
            exempt airport operator, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (6) The proceeds of a sale or disposal under this section of any
vehicle, article or thing, and any uncollected item left in or on the
vehicle, article or thing, under subsection (3) must be applied
successively as follows:

(a) firstly, in payment of the expenses occasioned by the sale
     or disposal;

(b) secondly, in payment of storage or other expenses incurred
     respectively by the Authority and the airport licensee or
     exempt airport operator (as the case may be) in relation to
     the vehicle, article, item or thing;

          (c) thirdly, in payment of all unpaid parking fees or other
              similar charges in relation to the vehicle, article, item or
              thing;

(d) lastly, by payment of the balance to the airport licensee or
     exempt airport operator, as the case may be.

                                                                                                 [18/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

127  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

 (7) A purchaser of an aircraft or a vehicle, or an article, item or a
thing sold in accordance with subsection (3) acquires good title to that
aircraft, vehicle, article, item or thing, and the Authority may execute
all documents necessary for effecting the sale or disposal of the
aircraft, vehicle, article, item or thing, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (8) Any person who, without the permission of an airport licensee
or exempt airport operator (as the case may be), removes or causes to
be removed from a holding area —

     (a) an aircraft, a vehicle, an article or a thing moved to the
          holding area under the circumstances in subsection (1) by
          the airport licensee or exempt airport operator; or

     (b) any uncollected item left in or on such an aircraft, vehicle,
          article or thing,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $1,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (9) This section —

     (a) does not authorise the moving, detention and sale or
          disposal of any aircraft, vehicle, article, item or thing
          belonging to the Government or the Authority; and

       (b) does not limit the operation of section 44 of the Air
            Navigation Act 1966 or the High Court (Admiralty
            Jurisdiction) Act 1961.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (10) In this section, “authorised airport employee”, for an airport,
means —

     (a) an employee of an airport licensee for the airport who is
          authorised by the airport licensee to exercise a power under
          this section in connection with that airport; or

     (b) an employee of an exempt airport operator for the airport
          who is authorised by the exempt airport operator to

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        128

          exercise a power under this section in connection with that
          airport.

                                                                                                   [18/2018]

Access to airport for defence-related purposes, etc.

 70.—(1) The Minister may, by written direction given to an airport
licensee or exempt airport operator for an airport —

       (a) require that access be given to specified kinds of airport
            service for specified kinds of defence-related purposes, or
            for the conduct of specified kinds of public events of
            national significance; or

       (b) require that priority of access be given to specified kinds of
            airport service for specified kinds of defence-related
            purposes, or for the conduct of specified kinds of public
            events of national significance.

 (2) The manner in which that access, or priority of access, is to be
given must be set out in the direction under subsection (1).

 (3) Subject to section 71, the terms and conditions on which that
access, or priority of access, is to be given must be set out in the
direction under subsection (1).

 (4) Every direction under subsection (1) must specify the Ministry,
department or public authority in relation to that direction.

 (5) An airport licensee or exempt airport operator must comply
with every direction given to it under subsection (1).

 (6) In this section —

      “airport service” means a service provided at an airport, where
         the service is necessary for the purposes of operating and
         maintaining civil aviation services at the airport, and includes
         the use of facilities at the airport for those purposes;

      “defence-related purposes” means a purpose related to any of
         the following:

              (a) the defence of Singapore;

              (b) the operation of the Singapore Armed Forces in
                   connection with the defence of Singapore;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

129  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     (c) the operation of aircraft owned by the armed forces of
         a foreign country, where that operation is in
         accordance with an arrangement approved by the
         Singapore Armed Forces;

     (d) the management of an emergency or a disaster
          (whether natural or otherwise), where that
          management involves the Singapore Armed Forces.

Compensation for access to airport for defence-related
purposes, etc.

 71.—(1) If —

       (a) a direction under section 70(1) is given to an airport
            licensee or exempt airport operator for an airport; and

       (b) any person specified in any of the following
            sub‑paragraphs suffers loss or damage in consequence of
            the giving of access, or the giving of priority of access, in
            accordance with the direction:

               (i) an airport licensee or exempt airport operator for the
                   airport;

              (ii) a person who is a lessee of the airport licensee or
                   exempt airport operator concerned,

the Government is liable to pay to the person an amount equal to the
loss of or damage to property suffered as a direct result of the giving
of access, or the giving of priority of access, in accordance with the
direction.

 (2) If any person specified in subsection (1)(b) and the Ministry,
department or public authority designated in the direction under
section 70(1) do not agree on the amount of loss or damage
mentioned in subsection (1), the person may recover the amount of
the loss or damage by action against the Government in a court of
competent jurisdiction.

 (3) In determining the amount of any loss or damage mentioned in
subsection (1), regard must be had to anything done in mitigation of
the loss or damage (including any remedial work).

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        130

 (4) A payment under subsection (1) or (2) must be made out of
amounts appropriated by Parliament for the purposes of the Ministry,
department or public authority designated in the direction.

                                   PART 6A

               AIRPORT CAPACITY MANAGEMENT

                            Division 1 — General

Purpose of this Part

 71A. This Part provides for limits on aircraft flight operations at
any coordinated airport or schedules facilitated airport in Singapore
to allow for optimal use of airport capacity.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

Interpretation of this Part

 71B. In this Part —

      “aircraft flight operation”, for an aircraft, means —

              (a) the landing of the aircraft on a runway;

              (b) the taking-off of the aircraft on a runway; and

              (c) the use of the full range of airport infrastructure (such
                   as the runway, terminal, apron and gate) necessary for
                   the purpose of paragraph (a) or (b) and in connection
                   with operating the aircraft;

      “operator of an aircraft” means the person who, when an aircraft
         flight operation involving an aircraft occurs, is —

              (a) if the aircraft is under a lease at the time of the
                   operation, the lessee of the aircraft; or

              (b) in any other case, the owner of the aircraft;

      “slot” means the permission to use the full range of airport
         infrastructure (such as the runway, terminal, apron and gate)
         necessary for any aircraft flight operation at a coordinated
         airport on a specific date and at a specific time;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

131  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     “slots committee”, for a coordinated airport, means a committee
        established under the slots management scheme for the
        coordinated airport to advise the slots coordinator for that
        airport about the capacity of the airport, such as the
        opportunities to increase the airport’s capacity, coordination
        parameters and methods of monitoring compliance with slots
        allocation;

     “slots management scheme” means the scheme set out in
        regulations made under section 71G for a coordinated airport,
        and includes that scheme as amended from time to time.

                                                               [18/2018]

Coordinated airport and schedules facilitated airport

 71C.—(1) The Minister may, after consulting the Authority,
declare an airport as —

       (a) a coordinated airport if the Minister is satisfied that the
            airport capacity at the airport is scarce and the
            establishment of a slots management scheme is
            necessary or expedient to allow for optimal use of
            airport capacity; or

       (b) a schedules facilitated airport if the Minister is of the
            opinion that measures under this Part are necessary to
            ensure that available capacity for aircraft flight operations
            at the airport is used efficiently.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (2) Once such a declaration is made under subsection (1), the
Minister must, within 7 days after the making of the declaration and
before the date the declaration comes into force, cause to be published
a notice of the making of the declaration, describing briefly the
coordinated airport or schedules facilitated airport (as the case may
be) in such manner as will secure adequate publicity for the
declaration.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (3) However, failure to publish a notice under subsection (2) in
respect of any declaration by the Minister does not invalidate the
declaration.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
                     Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.             Singapore Act 2009                             132

Appointment of slots coordinator and schedules facilitator

 71D.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the Authority may appoint a
person as —

(a) the slots coordinator for a coordinated airport; or

       (b) the schedules facilitator for a schedules facilitated airport.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (2) The Authority may act as the slots coordinator for a coordinated
airport, or as the schedules facilitator for a schedules facilitated
airport, if no such person is appointed for that airport under
subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (3) An appointment under subsection (1) of a person as a slots
coordinator for a coordinated airport, or a schedules facilitator for a
schedules facilitated airport, continues unless and until the Authority
decides that the appointment must end and written notice of that end
is served on the slots coordinator or schedules facilitator (as the case
may be) for that airport.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (4) In giving written notice under subsection (3), the Authority need
not give any person who may be affected by the written notice a
chance to be heard before giving the notice.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

No unauthorised slots coordinator and schedules facilitator

 71E.—(1) A person other than the Authority must not act as a slots
coordinator for a coordinated airport, or as a schedules facilitator for a
schedules facilitated airport, unless the person —

(a) is appointed under section 71D(1)(a) as a slots coordinator
     for the coordinated airport; or

(b) is appointed under section 71D(1)(b) as a schedules
     facilitator for the schedules facilitated airport,

as the case may be.

                                                                    [18/2018]

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

133  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

Information gathering by slots coordinator and schedules
facilitator

 71F.—(1) A slots coordinator for a coordinated airport may, by
written notice, require all or any of the following persons to provide,
within a reasonable period specified in the notice, and in such form
and manner as may be specified in the notice, all documents and
information relating to any matter which the slots coordinator
considers necessary to carry out the functions or duties of or
assigned to it by or under this Part and the slots management scheme
for the airport:

     (a) any operator of aircraft at the coordinated airport;

     (b) the airport licensee of that airport.

                                                               [18/2018]

 (2) A schedules facilitator for a schedules facilitated airport may, by
written notice, require all or any of the following persons to provide,
within a reasonable period specified in the notice, and in such form
and manner as may be specified in the notice, all documents and
information relating to any matter which the schedules facilitator
considers necessary to carry out the functions or duties of or assigned
to it by or under this Part:

     (a) any operator of aircraft at the schedules facilitated airport;

     (b) the airport licensee of that airport.

                                                               [18/2018]

 (3) However, an individual or person is not subject to a requirement
under subsection (1) or (2) to provide documents or information if —

     (a) the individual or person does not possess the document or
          information required; or

     (b) the individual or person has taken all reasonable steps
          available to the individual or person to obtain the document
          or information required and is unable to obtain it.

                                                                                                      [18/2018]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        134

          Division 2 — Coordinated airports

Slots management scheme

 71G.—(1) The Authority, with the approval of the Minister, must
establish, by regulations in the Gazette, a slots management scheme
for each coordinated airport where, in order to land or take off, during
the periods for which the airport is a coordinated airport, it is
necessary for an operator of an aircraft to have a slot allocated by a
slots coordinator.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (2) A slots management scheme for a coordinated airport —

(a) may prescribe the disqualifications to be appointed as a
     slots coordinator for the coordinated airport;

(b) must provide for the allocation of slots by the slots
     coordinator for aircraft landing at or taking off from the
     coordinated airport, and the conditions that may be
     imposed on the slots relating to aircraft flight operations
     at that airport;

          (c) may provide for the cancellation, suspension or variation
              of allocated slots by the slots coordinator, and the
              circumstances for doing so other than the circumstances
              in section 71J;

(d) may specify the circumstances (generally or specially)
     under which the full range of airport infrastructure
     necessary for any aircraft flight operation at the airport
     may be used or take place regardless of slots allocation;

          (e) must provide for the establishment of a slots committee
              (the composition of which may include representatives of
              providers of air navigation services at the airport, the
              airport licensee of that airport and other aviation industry
              participants) and for the functions of the slots committee;

          (f) must provide for the reconsideration by the slots
              coordinator of decisions mentioned in paragraph (b), (c)
              or (d) made by the slots coordinator, and for appeals
              against any of these decisions to a slots committee;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

135  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     (g) may provide for the saving and transitional arrangements
          because of changes to the scheme; and

       (h) may provide for any other matters necessary or incidental
            to the establishment or operation of such a scheme.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (3) All regulations made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

Effect of slots allocation

 71H.—(1) A slot allocated under a slots management scheme for a
coordinated airport permits a specified aircraft flight operation to take
place at the coordinated airport at a specified time on a specified day.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (2) A slot allocated under a slots management scheme for a
coordinated airport —

       (a) is not transferable; and

       (b) does not create rights or obligations that are enforceable
            against any person.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (3) To avoid doubt, the allocation of a slot for an aircraft flight
operation under a slots management scheme does not limit the
application of any other requirement or restriction to, or in relation to,
aircraft flight operations by or under this Act, the Air Navigation
Act 1966 or any other written law.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

Directions by slots coordinator

 71I.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), a slots coordinator for a
coordinated airport may give written directions for the purpose of
securing compliance by an operator of an aircraft at the coordinated
airport to cause or allow its aircraft to arrive at or leave the
coordinated airport in accordance with a slot allocated under the slots
management scheme established for that airport.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (2) A written direction may be given under subsection (1) to all or
any of the following persons:

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        136

(a) an operator of aircraft at the coordinated airport;

(b) the airport licensee of that airport.

                                                                    [18/2018]

 (3) A written direction may be given under subsection (1) in
relation to a coordinated airport only —

(a) in the case of a direction given to the airport licensee of the
     coordinated airport, after the slots coordinator has first
     consulted the airport licensee; and

       (b) if the direction does not relate to an air traffic service
            required by an aircraft arriving at that airport or a departing
            aircraft which has started push back from its stand.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (4) A person to whom a written direction is given under
subsection (1) in relation to a coordinated airport must comply
with the direction.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (5) However, a person is not subject to a requirement under
subsection (4) to comply with a written direction given under
subsection (1) to the person if in that person’s reasonable opinion,
compliance —

(a) is or is likely to be inconsistent with any other requirement
     under any other written law, including a requirement under
     the by-laws made under section 68; or

(b) is prejudicial to, or is likely to prejudice, aviation safety.

                                                                                                 [18/2018]

Sanctions for non-compliance with slots allocation, etc.

 71J.—(1) If the slots coordinator for a coordinated airport is
satisfied, on a balance of probabilities, that an operator of aircraft at
the airport —

       (a) has repeatedly or intentionally caused or allowed aircraft
            flight operations involving its aircraft to take place at the
            coordinated airport —

               (i) at times different from the slot allocated for the
                   aircraft to arrive at or leave that airport; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
                Civil Aviation Authority of

137             Singapore Act 2009                             2020 Ed.

     (ii) in circumstances which are not circumstances
          prescribed in the slots management scheme for that
          airport where aircraft flight operations do not have to
          be in accordance with allocated slots;

     (b) has repeatedly or intentionally used slots allocated for
          aircraft flight operations involving its aircraft —

     (i) in a different way from that indicated at the time of
         the allocation of the slot; and

     (ii) in circumstances which are not circumstances
          prescribed in the slots management scheme for that
          airport where aircraft flight operations do not have to
          be in accordance with allocated slots;

     (c) has —

     (i) failed to comply, without reasonable excuse, with the
         requirement for documents or information made by
         the slots coordinator under section 71F(1); or

     (ii) in response to the requirement under section 71F(1),
          given a document or information that is false in a
          material particular; or

     (d) has failed to comply with section 71I(4),

the slots coordinator may, after giving the operator concerned a
reasonable opportunity to be heard, by written notice impose a
sanction mentioned in subsection (2) on that operator of aircraft.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (2) The sanction which may be imposed under subsection (1) by a
slots coordinator for a coordinated airport are all or any of the
following:

     (a) cancel with effect from a date and time specified any slot
          allocated to the operator of aircraft in respect of that
          airport;

     (b) suspend with effect from a date and time specified any slot
          allocated to the operator of aircraft in respect of that
          airport;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        138

       (c) with the approval of the Authority, order the operator of
            aircraft to pay a pecuniary penalty to the slots coordinator
            for the default in subsection (1)(a), (b), (c) or (d), within a
            time specified.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (3) In deciding the sanction for a default in subsection (1)(a), (b),
(c) or (d) by an operator of aircraft with respect to a coordinated
airport, the slots coordinator for the coordinated airport must have
regard to the following matters:

(a) the nature and extent of the default;

(b) the nature and extent of any loss or damage suffered by
     other operators of aircraft at that coordinated airport, and
     any other person, as a result of the default;

          (c) the circumstances in which the default took place;

       (d) whether the operator has previously been found to have
            defaulted similarly in Singapore, whether or not at that
            same airport.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (4) The slots coordinator for a coordinated airport may also have
regard to any other matters it considers relevant in making a decision
under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (5) However, a pecuniary penalty in respect of any default in
subsection (1)(a), (b), (c) or (d) by an operator of aircraft must not
exceed $100,000 for each such default.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (6) In granting approval under subsection (2)(c), the Authority need
not give any person who may be affected by the decision a chance to
be heard before granting approval.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

139  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     Division 3 — Schedules facilitated airports

Sanctions for schedules facilitated airport

 71K.—(1) If the schedules facilitator for a schedules facilitated
airport is satisfied, on a balance of probabilities, that an operator of
aircraft at the airport —

     (a) has failed to comply, without reasonable excuse, with the
          requirement for documents or information made by the
          schedules facilitator under section 71F(2); or

     (b) has, in response to the requirement under section 71F(2),
          given a document or information that is false in a material
          particular,

the schedules facilitator may, after giving the operator concerned a
reasonable opportunity to be heard, by written notice, and with the
approval of the Authority, order the operator of aircraft to pay a
pecuniary penalty to the schedules facilitator for the default in
paragraph (a) or (b), within a time specified.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (2) In deciding the sanction for a default in subsection (1)(a) or (b)
by an operator of aircraft with respect to a schedules facilitated
airport, the schedules facilitator for the airport must have regard to the
following matters:

     (a) the nature and extent of the default;

     (b) the circumstances in which the default took place;

       (c) whether the operator has previously been found to have
            defaulted similarly in Singapore, whether or not at that
            same airport.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (3) The schedules facilitator for a schedules facilitated airport may
also have regard to any other matters it considers relevant in making a
decision under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (4) However, a pecuniary penalty in respect of any default in
subsection (1)(a) or (b) by an operator of aircraft must not exceed
$100,000 for each such default.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        140

 (5) In granting approval under subsection (1), the Authority need
not give any person who may be affected by the decision a chance to
be heard before granting approval.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

         Division 4 — Appeals and enforcement of sanctions

Appeal against sanctions

 71L.—(1) Any operator of aircraft against whom a sanction is
imposed under section 71J or 71K may, if aggrieved by that decision
of the slots coordinator or schedules facilitator (as the case may be),
appeal —

       (a) to the Minister —

               (i) against a sanction which is a pecuniary penalty
                   imposed by a slots coordinator or schedules
                   facilitator appointed under section 71D(1); or

              (ii) against any decision by the Authority acting as a
                   slots coordinator or schedules facilitator; or

       (b) to the Authority against any other sanction imposed by a
            slots coordinator appointed under section 71D(1).

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (2) Every appeal under this section must be made within the time
and in the manner prescribed.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (3) A sanction under section 71J or 71K takes effect despite any
appeal against the sanction, and remains in effect until the sanction is
reversed on appeal.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (4) The Minister or Authority (as the case may be) may determine
an appeal against a sanction imposed under section 71J or 71K —

       (a) by confirming the sanction; or

       (b) by reversing the sanction in question and referring that
            decision to the slots coordinator or schedules facilitator (as
            the case may be) for another decision under section 71J
            or 71K.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

141  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

 (5) The Minister’s decision or Authority’s decision (as the case may
be) on an appeal under this section is final.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

Recovery of pecuniary penalty, etc.

 71M.—(1) If any pecuniary penalty imposed under section 71J
or 71K is not paid in full by the due date for payment, interest at the
prescribed rate is payable by the operator of aircraft concerned on the
outstanding amount of the pecuniary penalty.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (2) The slots coordinator or schedules facilitator (as the case may
be), or the Authority if no slots coordinator or schedules facilitator is
appointed under section 71D(1), may recover, as a Government debt,
in a court of competent jurisdiction any of the following amounts that
has become due and payable but has not been paid:

       (a) any pecuniary penalty imposed under section 71J or 71K;

       (b) any interest imposed under subsection (1) or any part
            thereof,

and the liability to pay is not affected by an operator of aircraft
ceasing (for any reason) to operate its aircraft at the coordinated
airport or schedules facilitated airport concerned or being an operator
of aircraft.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (3) All pecuniary penalties imposed under section 71J or 71K, and
any interest imposed under subsection (1), must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

                             PART 7

     SPECIAL ADMINISTRATION ORDERS AND
        SCHEMES OF TRANSFERS, ETC., FOR
         AIRPORT LICENSEES, DESIGNATED
       BUSINESS TRUSTS AND DESIGNATED
                   OPERATING ENTITIES

                                                                   [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
                    Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.            Singapore Act 2009                              142

Interpretation of this Part

72.—(1) In this Part —

“business trust”, “trustee-manager”, “unit” and “unitholder”
   have the meanings given by section 2 of the Business Trusts
   Act 2004;

“Class 1 designated operating entity” and “Class 2 designated
   operating entity” have the meanings given by section 56A(1);

“corporation” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“designated business trust” has the meaning given by
   section 56A(1);

“effective designation date”, in relation to a Class 2 designated
   operating entity, means the date specified under section 64(3)
   as the date on which the designation of that entity as a
   designated operating entity takes effect;

“limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by
   section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

“relevant entity” means —

          (a) an airport licensee or a designated business trust; or

          (b) a Class 2 designated operating entity;

“unregistered company” has the meaning given by
   section 245(1) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
   Dissolution Act 2018.

(2) In this Part —

(a) to avoid doubt, a reference to an airport licensee or a
     designated business trust includes one that is also a Class 1
     designated operating entity;

(b) a reference to the affairs, business, undertaking, operations
     or activities of a designated business trust or a Class 2
     designated operating entity that is a business trust is to the
     affairs, business, undertaking, operations or activities (as

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

143  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     the case may be) carried on by the trustee-manager of the
     business trust on behalf of the business trust; and

     (c) a reference to the obligations of a designated business trust
         or a Class 2 designated operating entity that is a business
         trust is to the obligations undertaken by the trustee-
         manager of the business trust on behalf of the business
         trust.

                                                                         [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Meaning and purposes of special administration order

 73.—(1) A special administration order is an order of the Minister
made in relation to a relevant entity in accordance with section 74,
directing that during the period the order is in force, the affairs,
business and property of that entity are to be managed by a person
appointed by the Minister which may be the Authority (called in this
Part an appointed person) —

       (a) for securing one or more of the purposes specified in
            subsection (2); and

       (b) in a manner that protects the interests of the shareholders,
            unitholders or beneficiaries (as the case may be), and the
            customers and creditors, of the entity.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(a), the purposes are —

       (a) in the case of a relevant entity that is an airport licensee —
            the security and reliability of the provision of airport
            services and facilities relating to any airport for which it is
            licensed;

       (b) in the case of a relevant entity that is a designated business
            trust — the security and reliability of the business,
            undertaking or activities of the designated business trust
            in relation to any airport (or part thereof) for which the
            business trust is established;

       (c) in the case of a relevant entity that is a Class 2 designated
            operating entity — the security and reliability of the
            business, undertaking or activities of the relevant entity in

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        144

          Singapore relating to the provision of any essential
          transport service;

(d) the survival of the relevant entity or the whole or any part
     of the business or undertaking of the relevant entity, as a
     going concern;

          (e) the transfer to another person, or (as respects different parts
              of its business or undertaking) to 2 or more different
              persons, as a going concern, of so much of the business or
              undertaking of the relevant entity as is necessary to ensure
              that the following may be properly carried out:

          (i) in the case of a relevant entity that is an airport
              licensee — the obligations of the entity in relation to
              its business, undertaking or activities providing
              airport services and facilities relating to any airport
              for which it is licensed;

          (ii) in the case of a relevant entity that is a designated
               business trust — the obligations of the entity relating
               to any airport (or part thereof) for which the business
               trust is established;

          (iii) in the case of a relevant entity that is a Class 2
                designated operating entity — the obligations of the
                entity in relation to its business, undertaking or
                activities of providing any essential transport
                service; and

          (f) the carrying out of the obligations of the relevant entity
              mentioned in paragraph (e)(i), (ii) or (iii) (whichever is
              applicable) pending the transfer, as a going concern, of the
              entity’s business, undertaking or activities mentioned in
              paragraph (e)(i), (ii) or (iii) (as the case may be) to any
              other person or persons.

                                                                             [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Power to make special administration order and other orders

 74.—(1) If, on an application made to the Minister by the Authority,
the Minister is satisfied that any one or more of the grounds specified

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

145  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

in subsection (2) are satisfied in relation to a relevant entity, the
Minister may make any one or more of the following orders:

     (a) a special administration order in relation to the relevant
          entity;

     (b) an order requiring —

     (i) the relevant entity; or

     (ii) in the case of a relevant entity that is a business
          trust — the trustee-manager of the business trust,

     (b) to immediately take any action or to do or not do any act or
          thing that the Minister considers necessary in relation to —

     (iii) in the case of a relevant entity that is an airport
           licensee — the business, undertaking or activities of
           the entity of providing airport services and facilities
           relating to any airport for which it is licensed;

     (iv) in the case of a relevant entity that is a designated
          business trust — the business, undertaking or
          activities of the entity relating to any airport (or
          part thereof) for which the business trust is
          established; or

     (v) in the case of a relevant entity that is a Class 2
          designated operating entity — the business,
          undertaking or activities of the entity of providing
          any essential transport service;

     (c) an order appointing a person (called in this Part an advisor)
         to advise —

     (i) the relevant entity; or

     (ii) in the case of a relevant entity that is a business trust
          — the trustee-manager of the business trust,

     (c) in the proper conduct of the business, undertaking or
         activities of the relevant entity mentioned in
         paragraph (b)(iii), (iv) or (v), whichever is applicable.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the grounds specified are the
following:

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        146

(a) in the case of a relevant entity that is an airport licensee —
     there has been, is or is likely to be a contravention by the
     airport licensee of the conditions of its airport licence or
     this Act that is serious enough to make it inappropriate for
     the airport licensee to continue to hold the airport licence
     for that airport;

(b) the Minister considers it to be in the interest of the security
     and reliability of the carrying on of the business,
     undertaking or activities of the relevant entity relating to —

          (i) in the case of a relevant entity that is an airport
              licensee — the provision of airport services and
              facilities relating to any airport for which it is
              licensed;

          (ii) in the case of a relevant entity that is a designated
               business trust — any airport (or part thereof) for
               which the business trust is established; or

          (iii) in the case of a relevant entity that is a Class 2
                designated operating entity — the provision of any
                essential transport service by the entity;

          (c) the relevant entity is or is likely to be unable to pay its
              debts;

(d) the Minister considers it to be in the public interest.

 (3) No special administration order may be made under this Part in
relation to a relevant entity that is a Class 2 designated operating
entity before its effective designation date.

 (4) Notice of any order under subsection (1) must be given
immediately by the Minister to such persons and in such manner as
may be determined by the Minister.

 (5) The Minister may make a special administration order in
relation to a relevant entity despite the commencement of (as
applicable) —

(a) any proceedings relating to the making of an order under
     section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

147  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
     relation to the relevant entity, being a corporation;

     (b) any proceedings relating to the making of a judicial
          management order under Part 7 of the Insolvency,
          Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to the
          relevant entity, being a corporation;

     (c) any meeting convened under section 94(7) of the
         Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
         respect of the relevant entity, being a corporation;

     (d) any proceedings under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
          Dissolution Act 2018 relating to the winding up of the
          affairs of the relevant entity, being a company or an
          unregistered company;

     (e) any proceedings under the Limited Liability Partnerships
         Act 2005 relating to the winding up of the affairs of the
         relevant entity, being a limited liability partnership; or

     (f) any proceedings before any court for the dissolution,
         winding up or termination (as the case may be) of the
         relevant entity, being an entity not mentioned in
         paragraph (d) or (e).

 (6) For the purposes of this section, a relevant entity is unable to pay
its debts if —

     (a) a creditor (by assignment or otherwise) to whom the entity
          is indebted in a sum exceeding the sum mentioned in
          section 125(2)(a) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
          Dissolution Act 2018 then due has served on the entity, by
          leaving at the registered office of the entity, a written
          demand by the creditor or the creditor’s lawfully
          authorised agent requiring the entity to pay the sum so
          due, and the entity has for 3 weeks after the service of the
          demand neglected to pay the sum, or to secure or
          compound for it to the reasonable satisfaction of the
          creditor;

     (b) an enforcement order or other process issued to enforce a
          judgment, decree or order of any court in favour of a

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        148

          creditor of the entity is returned unsatisfied in whole or in
          part; or

          (c) it is proved to the satisfaction of the General Division of
              the High Court that the entity is unable to pay its debts.

                                                                              [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Ancillary directions, etc., when special administration order,
etc., is made

 75.—(1) A special administration order under this Part may specify
that —

       (a) the appointed person has such functions and powers in
            relation to the operations of the relevant entity as are
            specified in the order;

       (b) the relevant entity or, if the relevant entity is a business
            trust, its trustee-manager, is to stop providing a specified
            service or facility from a specified date; and

       (c) the appointed person must have access to, and take control
            of, the property (including intellectual property), licences
            and employees used or required by the relevant entity or, if
            the relevant entity is a business trust, its trustee-manager,
            for the purposes of carrying on the operations of the
            relevant entity as are specified in the order.

 (2) A special administration order under this Part may also contain
ancillary directions that may —

       (a) direct how the costs of the operations specified in the order
            and revenue generated from those operations, are to be
            dealt with;

       (b) fix the remuneration and expenses to be paid by the
            relevant entity or trustee-manager to the appointed person;

       (c) specify the period for which the order under this section
            applies; and

       (d) specify any other conditions that may apply.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

149  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

 (3) An order under section 74(1)(c) may also contain an ancillary
direction that fixes the remuneration and expenses to be paid by the
relevant entity or trustee-manager to the advisor.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Effect of special administration order and other orders

 75A.—(1) Any decision of the Minister under section 74(1) is final.

 (2) A special administration order operates to the exclusion of
rights that are inconsistent with the order.

 (3) Nothing in Part 5 applies to prohibit or invalidate any special
administration order or other order made under this Part or any
transaction entered into to give effect to such an order.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Duties of relevant entity or trustee-manager, etc.

 75B.—(1) The relevant entity that is the subject of a special
administration order under this Part or, in the case of such a relevant
entity that is a business trust, its trustee-manager —

       (a) must facilitate the handover of the operations to the
            appointed person as specified in the order;

       (b) must not obstruct the appointed person’s access to property
            or the exercise by the appointed person of the appointed
            person’s responsibilities under or pursuant to the special
            administration order; and

       (c) must comply with reasonable directions given by the
            appointed person in the exercise of the appointed person’s
            responsibilities under or pursuant to the special
            administration order.

 (2) The relevant entity or trustee-manager which fails to comply
with subsection (1) or an order under section 74(1)(b) shall be guilty
of an offence.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        150

Transfer of property, etc., of relevant entity under special
administration order

 75C.—(1) Without limiting sections 73, 74 and 75, a special
administration order in relation to a relevant entity may provide for
the following matters:

(a) the transfer to one or more prescribed transferees (which
     may or may not be the appointed person) of the following
     (whichever is applicable):

          (i) the property, rights and liabilities of the relevant
              entity; or

          (ii) in the case of a relevant entity that is a business
               trust — the property of the business trust, and the
               rights held and the liabilities incurred by the trustee-
               manager of the business trust in its capacity as
               trustee-manager of the business trust;

(b) matters that are consequential or related to any such
     transfer.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1) and sections 73, 74 and 75,
where financial assistance has been provided by the Government to
an airport licensee or a designated business trust for the purpose of —

(a) in the case of an airport licensee — maintaining the
     security and reliability of the provision of airport services
     and facilities relating to any airport for which it is licensed;
     or

(b) in the case of a designated business trust — maintaining
     the security and reliability of the business, undertaking or
     activities of the designated business trust relating to any
     airport (or part thereof) for which the business trust is
     established,

a special administration order may provide for the following matters:

          (c) the transfer of shares, securities or units in the airport
              licensee or designated business trust to any of the
              prescribed transferees (which may or may not be the
              appointed person);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

151  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     (d) matters that are consequential or related to any such
          transfer, including the extinguishment of rights of any
          specified description to subscribe for, or otherwise acquire,
          securities of the airport licensee or any of its subsidiaries.

 (3) An order providing for any matter mentioned in subsection (1)
or (2) may contain any of the prescribed kinds of provisions.

 (4) If the Minister makes a special administration order providing
for any transfer mentioned in subsection (1) or (2), the Minister must,
by notification in the Gazette, establish a scheme within the period
specified in subsection (5) for determining the amount of any
compensation payable by the prescribed transferee to any of the
following (whichever is applicable):

     (a) persons who held shares, securities or units immediately
          before they were transferred;

     (b) persons whose rights of any specified description to
          subscribe for, or otherwise acquire, shares, securities or
          units were extinguished;

     (c) the airport licensee, the trustee-manager or unitholders of
         the designated business trust, or the Class 2 designated
         operating entity.

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (4), the period within which the
Minister must establish the scheme mentioned in that subsection is —

     (a) 6 months after the date of the making of the special
          administration order; or

     (b) any longer period after the date of the making of the special
          administration order, as agreed between the prescribed
          transferee and the relevant entity or trustee-manager.

(6) A scheme established under subsection (4) may provide for —

     (a) the manner in which any compensation or consideration is
          to be assessed, including methods of calculation, valuation
          dates and matters to be taken into account or disregarded
          when making valuations;

     (b) the assessment to be made by an independent valuer
          appointed by the Minister; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        152

          (c) the remuneration and expenses of the independent valuer.

 (7) In this section, “prescribed transferee” means the Authority or a
person nominated by the Minister.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Regulations for this Part

 75D. The Minister may make regulations under section 102 for
giving effect to this Part, including —

       (a) regulations governing the transfer of property, rights and
            liabilities of or in relation to a relevant entity mentioned in
            section 75C(1)(a) and matters consequential or related to
            such transfer;

       (b) regulations governing the transfer of shares, securities or
            units in an airport licensee or a designated business trust
            mentioned in section 75C(2)(c) and matters consequential
            or related to such transfer;

       (c) regulations for prescribing any kinds of provisions for the
            purposes of section 75C(3); and

       (d) if a special administration order is made, regulations for
            applying, omitting or modifying the provisions of Parts 7
            and 9 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act
            2018.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

                                    PART 8

         MONITORING AND ENFORCEMENT POWERS

Authorised officers

 76.—(1) The Authority may, in relation to any provision in this Act
or the regulations or rules, appoint any of its officers or employees or
any other person to be an authorised officer for the purposes of that
provision, either generally or in a particular case.

 (2) The Authority may delegate the exercise of all or any of the
powers conferred or duties imposed upon it by this Act (except the
power of delegation conferred by this subsection) to any authorised

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

153  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

officer, subject to such conditions or limitations as set out in this Act
or as the Authority may specify; and any reference in this Act to the
Authority includes a reference to such an authorised officer.

Damage to Authority’s property

 77.—(1) If any person wilfully removes, destroys or damages any
property belonging to the Authority or hinders or prevents the
property from being used or operated in the manner in which it is
intended to be used or operated, that person shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both, and, on application by the Authority, a court may order the
offender to pay compensation to the Authority for any damage done
by the offender.

 (2) Any employee of the Authority duly authorised in that behalf
may apprehend any person if that other person commits, within the
employee’s view, an offence under this section and must on such
apprehension, without unreasonable delay, hand over the person so
apprehended to a police officer.

Obstructing employee, etc., of Authority

 78.—(1) The Authority, or an officer or employee thereof
authorised in writing by the Authority, may enter at any reasonable
time any premises occupied by the airport licensee or a lessee of the
airport licensee for the purpose of —

       (a) ascertaining whether there is, or has been, a contravention
            of this Act; or

       (b) ascertaining whether any of the functions conferred by this
            Act on the Authority or the Minister should or may be
            exercised.

 (2) Having entered any such premises under subsection (1), the
Authority, or an officer or employee thereof authorised in writing by
the Authority, may —

       (a) inspect any books, documents or other records relating to
            the business of the airport licensee or the lessee in
            providing airport services and facilities;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        154

(b) make copies of, or records of any information contained in,
     any such books, documents or other records; or

          (c) take photographs of the premises and any property or
              material found on the premises.

 (3) Any person who refuses to give access to, or wilfully obstructs,
hinders or delays —

(a) any member, officer or employee of the Authority; or

(b) any authorised officer,

in the performance and execution of any matter or thing which he or
she is authorised to do by this section or under this Act shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both.

Consent of Public Prosecutor

 79. No court is to try any offence under this Act or any regulations
or rules except with the consent of the Public Prosecutor.

Power to remove persons, etc., and arrest

 80.—(1) A police officer may remove from any immovable
property under the management and control of the Authority or
any part thereof —

       (a) any person who, in contravention of this Act, fails or
            refuses to leave that property or any part of that property
            after being requested by such an officer to do so; and

       (b) any vehicle or thing brought to or left within that property
            or any part of that property in contravention of any
            provisions of this Act and any vehicle or thing likely to
            cause danger or obstruction.

 (2) A police officer may without warrant arrest a person within any
immovable property under the management and control of the
Authority —

       (a) if the police officer has reasonable cause to believe that that
            person has contravened any provision of this Act and the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

155  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     police officer does not know or cannot ascertain that
     person’s name and address; or

     (b) if that person, in contravention of this Act, fails or refuses
          to leave the Authority’s property or any particular part of
          the property after being requested to do so by such an
          officer.

Police officer may require evidence of identity

 81.—(1) A police officer who reasonably believes that a person has
committed an offence under this Act may require the person to
provide such evidence of that person’s identity as the police officer
may require.

 (2) Any person who —

       (a) refuses to provide the information required of the person
            by a police officer under subsection (1); or

       (b) provides information to a police officer in connection with
            any requirement under subsection (1), being information
            that is false or misleading in a material particular, and
            knowing that it is false or misleading in a material
            particular or is reckless as to whether it is,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Power to obtain information

 82.—(1) The Authority or an authorised officer may, by written
notice, require any airport licensee or other person to provide, within
a reasonable period specified in the notice, and in such form and
manner as may be specified in the notice, all documents and
information relating to any matter which the Authority considers
necessary to carry out the functions or duties of or assigned to the
Authority by or under any provision of this Act, which are within the
knowledge of that person or in that person’s custody or under that
person’s control.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        156

 (2) The power to require a person to provide any document or
information under subsection (1) includes the power —

(a) to require that person, or any person who is or was an
     officer or employee of that person, to provide an
     explanation of the document or information;

(b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
     that person to state, to the best of that person’s knowledge
     and belief, where it is; and

          (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
              form, to require the information to be made available to the
              Authority in legible form.

 (3) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do
anything required of the person by notice under subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000.

(4) Any person who —

(a) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any document
     or information which the person has been required by a
     notice under subsection (1) to provide; or

(b) in providing any document or information required under
     subsection (1), makes any statement which the person
     knows to be false in a material particular or recklessly
     makes such a statement,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (5) If any person fails to comply with a notice under subsection (1),
the court may, on the application of the Authority, make such order as
the court thinks fit to secure compliance with the notice and any such
order may provide that all the costs or expenses of and incidental to
the application must be borne by such person or by any officer of a
company or other association who is responsible for the failure.

 (6) The Authority through an authorised officer may, at any time
after the expiry of the period specified in the notice mentioned in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

157  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

subsection (1), enter any building or place where the Authority has
reason to believe that any document or information, in respect of
which it has given the notice, may be found, and seize or take extracts
or copies of any such document or information.

 (7) The Authority is entitled without payment to keep any
document or information, or any copy or extract thereof, provided
to it under subsection (1) or obtained under subsection (6).

 (8) Every authorised officer acting under this section is deemed to
be a public servant for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

Restriction on disclosure of confidential information

 83.—(1) This section applies if —

       (a) any information or document is provided by a person to the
            Authority or an authorised officer under this Act; and

       (b) at the time such information or document is provided, the
            person notifies the Authority or authorised officer in
            writing that it is of a confidential or commercially sensitive
            nature.

 (2) The Authority or an authorised officer must not disclose to any
person the information or the contents of a document to which this
section applies unless —

       (a) the Authority or authorised officer is of the opinion that —

               (i) the disclosure of the information or the contents of
                   the document would not cause detriment to the
                   person providing it or to any other person who is
                   aware of the information or document; or

              (ii) although the disclosure of the information or the
                   contents of the document would cause detriment to
                   the person providing it or to any other person who is
                   aware of the information or document, the public
                   benefit in disclosing it outweighs that detriment;

       (b) the Authority or authorised officer gives written notice
            to —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        158

          (i) the person who provided the information or
              document; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

159  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     (ii) any other person whom the Authority or authorised
          officer is aware has provided the information or
          document to the person mentioned in
          sub‑paragraph (i), where the identity of such other
          person is known to the Authority or authorised
          officer, as the case may be,

     (b) stating that the Authority or authorised officer wishes to
          disclose the information or contents of the document,
          specifying the nature of the intended disclosure, setting out
          detailed reasons why the Authority or authorised officer
          wishes to make the disclosure and setting out a copy of this
          section; and

     (c) no appeal is made to the Minister under section 55.

 (3) Subsection (2) does not prevent the Authority from disclosing
any information or the contents of any document —

     (a) to any member, officer or employee of the Authority, any
          authorised officer, or any agent, consultant, committee or
          panel acting for or under the direction of the Authority;

     (b) to the Minister, the Appeals Advisory Panel or any agent,
          consultant, committee or panel acting for or under the
          direction of the Minister;

     (c) when required to do so by any court or under any written
         law;

     (d) for the purposes of any criminal proceedings; or

     (e) for any other purpose the disclosure of which is required or
         authorised by or under any written law.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, the disclosure of any
information or the contents of a document already in the public
domain at the time the Authority or authorised officer (as the case
may be) wishes to disclose it cannot cause detriment to any person
mentioned in subsection (2)(a).

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        160

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 84.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     an officer; or

(b) to be attributable to any act or default on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

                                                                                                             [2/2012]

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     a partner; or

(b) to be attributable to any act or default on a partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by a limited
liability partnership is proved to have been committed with the
consent or connivance of, or to be attributable to any neglect on the
part of, a partner or manager of the limited liability partnership, the
partner or manager (as the case may be) as well as the partnership
shall be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly.

 (5) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
     its governing body; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
                  Civil Aviation Authority of

161                    Singapore Act 2009                      2020 Ed.

     (b) to be attributable to any act or default on the part of such an
          officer or a member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(6) In this section —

     “body corporate” and “partnership” exclude a limited liability
        partnership within the meaning of the Limited Liability
        Partnerships Act 2005;

     “officer” —

     (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
          member of the committee of management, chief
          executive officer, manager, secretary or other similar
          officer of the body corporate and includes any person
          purporting to act in any such capacity; and

     (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
          than a partnership), means the president, the
          secretary, or any member of the committee of the
          unincorporated association, or any person holding a
          position analogous to that of president, secretary or
          member of such a committee and includes any person
          purporting to act in any such capacity;

     “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with such modifications as the Minister
considers appropriate, to any body corporate or unincorporated
association formed or recognised under the law of a territory outside
Singapore.

Composition of offences

 85.—(1) The Chief Executive, or any employee of the Authority or
authorised officer authorised by the Authority in writing to act under
this section, may compound any offence under this Act that is
prescribed as an offence which may be compounded by the Chief
Executive, or that employee or authorised officer (as the case may

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
             Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.     Singapore Act 2009                                     162

be), by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence the lower of the following:

(a) a sum not exceeding one‑half of the amount of the
     maximum fine that is prescribed for the offence;

(b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

                                    PART 9

                    LEVIES, FEES AND CHARGES

Levy

 86.—(1) For the purpose of enabling the Authority to carry out its
functions under this Act and any other written law, the Minister may,
after consulting the Authority, by order in the Gazette, impose on all
or any of the persons mentioned in subsection (2) a levy payable to
the Authority.

 (2) An order made under subsection (1) may —

       (a) prescribe different rates of levies to be imposed in respect
            of different classes of persons, airports or aircraft, or on the
            basis of different times of use or on any other differential
            basis;

       (b) specify the persons by whom any levy is payable (each
            called X), the manner of payment and the place at which it
            is payable;

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

      (ba) in a case where the amount of any levy is or is to be passed
            on by X to a purchaser of an air passenger ticket from X for
            the carriage of a passenger on a flight — require that any
            air passenger ticket issued by X to the purchaser state the
            amount passed on or to be passed on;

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

163  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     (c) prescribe a date by which any levy is payable or authorise
         the Authority to fix the date by which the levy is payable;

     (d) designate an airport licensee or other agent to collect on
          behalf of the Authority any levy that is payable and any
          interest or penalty payable on any levy, and the method of
          such collection;

                                                                         [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

     (e) require returns to be made —

     (i) by each X; and

                         [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

     (ii) by the airport licensee or other agent mentioned in
          paragraph (d),

     (e) and prescribe conditions relating to the making of such
         returns;

     (f) prescribe penalties for the late payment of any such levy by
          each X; and

                                                                         [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

     (g) impose interest for late payment of any such levy or
          penalty.

Other provisions relating to levy

 87.—(1) There must be paid to the Authority the following, which
are to be applied by the Authority in performing its functions under
this Act and any other written law:

       (a) all levies imposed under section 86;

       (b) any penalty or interest for the late payment of any levy or
            penalty imposed under section 86; and

       (c) any additional penalty imposed under subsection (3)(b) or
            an order made under section 86(1) read with
            subsection (4).

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

 (2) Any such unpaid levy, penalty or interest imposed under
section 86, or additional penalty imposed under subsection (3)(b) or
an order made under section 86(1) read with subsection (4), may be

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        164

recovered by the Authority as a debt in a court of competent
jurisdiction.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

 (2A) The Authority may waive, refund or remit the whole or part of
any levy, interest or penalty (including additional penalty) paid or
payable by any person.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

 (3) Where an airport licensee or other agent is designated by an
order made under section 86(1) read with section 86(2)(d) to collect
any levy, interest or penalty payable under section 86 —

(a) all such levies, interest and penalties collected by the
     airport licensee or agent must be paid to the Authority
     within the time prescribed in that order and any amount
     that is not so paid is recoverable from the airport licensee
     or agent as a debt in a court of competent jurisdiction;

(b) if any amount of levy, interest or penalty collected by the
     airport licensee or agent is not paid by the airport licensee
     or agent to the Authority within the time prescribed, such
     additional penalty on the amount outstanding as may be
     prescribed in the order is payable by the airport licensee or
     agent to the Authority; and

       (c) the airport licensee or other agent must not refund, remit or
            reimburse, directly or indirectly, any levy, interest or
            penalty paid or payable by any person under section 86,
            except in accordance with the prior approval of the
            Authority.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

 (4) Without limiting section 86(2), the order may provide that the
Authority may impose an additional penalty of a prescribed amount
on the airport licensee or agent for a failure to collect an amount of
levy, interest or penalty payable under section 86.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

Airport development levy

 87A.—(1) A tax called an airport development levy is payable in
respect of every air passenger ticket that covers at least one flight that
takes off —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

165  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     (a) from an airport at Changi to a place outside Singapore; and

      (b) on or after a date specified by an order made under
           subsection (2), being no earlier than 29 June 2018.

                                                                                                         [18/2018]

(2) The airport development levy —

     (a) is an amount or rate prescribed in an order in the Gazette
          made by the Minister;

     (b) is payable to the Authority; and

      (c) must be paid into the Changi Airport Development Fund.

                                                                                                         [18/2018]

(3) An order made under subsection (2) may also —

     (a) specify the persons by whom an airport development levy
          is payable (each called X), the manner of payment and the
          place at which it is payable;

                                                                         [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

     (b) prescribe different amounts or rates of airport development
          levy in respect of different classes of persons or aircraft, or
          on the basis of different times of use or on any other
          differential basis;

     (c) prescribe a date by which an airport development levy is
         due, or authorise the Authority to fix the date by which the
         airport development levy must be paid;

      (d) designate an airport licensee or other agent to collect on
           behalf of the Authority an airport development levy that is
           payable and any interest or penalty payable on any airport
           development levy, and the method of such collection;

                                                                            [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

     (da) in a case where the amount of any airport development
           levy is or is to be passed on by X to a purchaser of an air
           passenger ticket from X for the carriage of a passenger on a
           flight — require that any air passenger ticket issued by X to
           the purchaser state the amount passed on or to be passed
           on;

                                                                            [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        166

          (e) require returns to be made —

          (i) by each X; or

                                            [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

          (ii) by the airport licensee or other agent mentioned in
               paragraph (d),

          (e) and prescribe conditions relating to the making of such
              returns;

        (f) prescribe penalties for the late payment of any airport
            development levy by each X; and

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

       (g) impose interest for late payment of any airport
            development levy or penalty.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (4) Any unpaid airport development levy, or penalty or interest
imposed under this section, or any additional penalty imposed under
subsection (5)(b) or an order made under subsection (2) read with
subsection (6), may be recovered by the Authority as a debt in a court
of competent jurisdiction.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

 (4A) The Authority may waive, refund or remit the whole or part of
any airport development levy, interest or penalty (including
additional penalty) paid or payable by any person.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

 (5) Where an airport licensee or other agent is designated by an
order made under subsection (2) read with subsection (3)(d) to collect
any airport development levy, interest or penalty payable under this
section —

(a) all such airport development levies, interest and penalties
     collected by the airport licensee or agent must be paid to
     the Authority within the time prescribed in that order and
     any amount that is not so paid is recoverable from the
     airport licensee or agent as a debt in a court of competent
     jurisdiction;

(b) if any amount of airport development levy, interest or
     penalty collected by the airport licensee or agent is not paid

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

167  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     by the airport licensee or agent to the Authority within the
     time prescribed, such additional penalty on the amount
     outstanding as may be prescribed in the order is payable by
     the airport licensee or agent to the Authority; and

       (c) the airport licensee or other agent must not refund, remit or
            reimburse, directly or indirectly, any airport development
            levy, interest or penalty paid or payable by any person
            under this section, except in accordance with the prior
            approval of the Authority.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

 (6) Without limiting subsection (3), the order may provide that the
Authority may impose an additional penalty of a prescribed amount
on the airport licensee or agent for a failure to collect an amount of
airport development levy, interest or penalty payable under this
section.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

SAF levy

 87B.—(1) A tax called an SAF levy is payable in respect of all or
any of the following as specified in an order made by the Minister and
published in the Gazette:

       (a) a passenger or any quantity of cargo on a flight that takes
            off from an airport in Singapore specified in the order to
            land in a place outside Singapore;

       (b) a flight that takes off from an airport in Singapore specified
            in the order to land in a place outside Singapore.

 (2) The SAF levy —

       (a) is payable by the persons (each called X) specified in the
            order;

       (b) is an amount or rate prescribed in the order;

       (c) is payable to the Authority on or after the date prescribed in
            the order; and

       (d) must be paid into the SAF Fund.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        168

(3) An order made under subsection (1) may —

(a) prescribe different amounts or rates of SAF levy in respect
     of different classes of passengers or cargoes, airports,
     aircraft, places of landing, or on any other differential
     basis;

(b) prescribe the different classes of aircraft mentioned in
     paragraph (a) by reference to any Annex to the Chicago
     Convention relating to international standards and
     recommended practices, as amended from time to time;

          (c) specify the manner of payment;

(d) in a case where the amount of any SAF levy is or is to be
     passed on by X to —

          (i) a purchaser of an air passenger ticket from X for the
              carriage of a passenger on a flight;

          (ii) a person (Y) who procures from X the carriage of any
               cargo on a flight; or

          (iii) a person (also Y) who charters or otherwise procures
                a flight from X,

(d) require that any air passenger ticket issued by X to the
     purchaser, or any contract between X and Y or any other
     document issued by X to Y, state the amount passed on or to
     be passed on;

          (e) prescribe the date by which any SAF levy is payable, or
              authorise the Authority to fix the date by which any SAF
              levy must be paid;

          (f) designate an agent to collect on behalf of the Authority any
              SAF levy that is payable and any interest or penalty
              payable on any SAF levy, and the method of the collection;

(g) require returns to be made by each X to the Authority or the
     agent mentioned in paragraph (f), and prescribe conditions
     relating to the making of the returns;

(h) prescribe penalties for the late payment of any SAF levy by
     each X;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

169  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     (i) impose interest for the late payment of any SAF levy or
         penalty; and

     (j) prescribe the persons to whom SAF and SAF
         environmental attributes may be allocated for the
         purposes of section 7(1)(gb).

 (4) Any unpaid SAF levy, or any interest or penalty imposed under
this section, or any additional penalty imposed under
subsection (6)(b) or an order made under subsection (1) read with
subsection (7), may be recovered by the Authority as a debt in a court
of competent jurisdiction.

 (5) The Authority may waive, refund or remit the whole or part of
any SAF levy, interest or penalty (including additional penalty) paid
or payable by any person.

 (6) Where an agent is designated by an order made under
subsection (1) read with subsection (3)(f) to collect any SAF levy,
interest or penalty payable under this section —

     (a) all such SAF levies, interest and penalties collected by the
          agent must be paid to the Authority within the time
          prescribed in that order and any amount that is not so paid
          is recoverable from the agent as a debt in a court of
          competent jurisdiction;

     (b) if any amount of SAF levy, interest or penalty collected by
          the agent is not paid by the agent to the Authority within
          the time prescribed, such additional penalty on the amount
          outstanding as may be prescribed in the order is payable by
          the agent to the Authority; and

     (c) the agent must not refund, remit or reimburse, directly or
         indirectly, any SAF levy, interest or penalty paid or payable
         by any person under this section, except in accordance with
         the prior approval of the Authority.

 (7) Without limiting subsection (3), the order may provide that the
Authority may impose an additional penalty of a prescribed amount
on the agent for a failure to collect an amount of SAF levy, interest or
penalty payable under this section.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        170

Fees, charges and late payment penalties

 88.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, by
order in the Gazette —

(a) impose fees and charges for air navigation services and
     other facilities and services the Authority provides at or in
     connection with any airport;

(b) impose penalties for the late payment of any such fee or
     charge;

          (c) impose interest for late payment of any such fee, charge or
              penalty; and

(d) provide for any payment thereof by instalment.

 (2) Any such fee or charge or penalty or interest for late payment
may be set either by fixing the amount or by setting a method of
calculation.

 (3) Different rates of fees and charges may be so prescribed or fixed
in respect of different classes of persons, airports, aircraft or services,
or on the basis of different times of use or on any other differential
basis.

 (4) Any such unpaid fee or charge or instalment thereof, or unpaid
late payment penalty or interest, may be recovered by the Authority
as a debt in a court of competent jurisdiction.

Statutory lien

 89.—(1) If —

       (a) any levy or service charge imposed in respect of an aircraft
            is not paid in full by the due date for payment; and

       (b) any part of the levy or service charge, or any part of the late
            penalty or interest for late payment of the levy or service
            charge, remains unpaid,

an employee authorised by the Authority in writing to act under this
section may make an entry in the Register of Statutory Liens in the
prescribed manner.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

171  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

 (2) When the entry is made, a statutory lien on the aircraft vests in
the Authority.

(3) The statutory lien covers the following:

     (a) the levy or service charge or both in respect of the aircraft;

     (b) any penalty that becomes payable in respect of the levy or
          service charge after the entry is made;

     (c) any further outstanding amounts in respect of the aircraft.

Effect of statutory lien

 90.—(1) Sections 89 to 94 have effect in relation to an aircraft
while a statutory lien on the aircraft continues in effect.

 (2) Those provisions apply —

       (a) despite any encumbrance in respect of the aircraft, and any
            sale or disposition of, or dealing in, the aircraft or an
            interest in the aircraft; and

       (b) whether or not the Authority has possession of the aircraft
            at any time.

 (3) For the purposes of priorities among creditors and the purposes
of the distribution of the proceeds of a sale made under section 93, the
statutory lien has effect as a security interest in respect of the aircraft
ranking in priority —

       (a) after any security interest (other than a floating charge) in
            respect of the aircraft created before the time of registration
            of the statutory lien, to the extent that the security interest
            covers a debt incurred before that time; and

       (b) before any security interest that is not covered by
            paragraph (a), or to the extent that it is not covered by
            paragraph (a).

 (4) A statutory lien ceases to have effect in the following cases, and
not otherwise:

       (a) when there is no longer any outstanding amount covered
            by the statutory lien;

       (b) when the aircraft is sold or disposed of under section 93;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        172

          (c) when an authorised employee directs in writing that the
              statutory lien ceases to have effect.

 (5) When a statutory lien ceases to have effect, the authorised
employee must make an entry in the Register of Statutory Liens as
prescribed by the regulations.

 (6) A statutory lien is not to be taken by implication to have any
effect otherwise than as provided by this Act.

Register of Statutory Liens

 91. There must be a Register of Statutory Liens, which must be
maintained by the Authority, and be open to public inspection, as
prescribed by the regulations.

Seizure of aircraft

 92.—(1) This section applies if an outstanding amount covered by a
statutory lien on an aircraft remains unpaid at the end of 9 months
after the day on which it became an outstanding amount or the day on
which the lien was registered, whichever is the later.

 (2) An employee authorised by the Authority in writing to act under
this section —

       (a) may at any time, seize the aircraft; and

       (b) may keep possession of the aircraft until all outstanding
            amounts covered by the statutory lien are paid.

 (3) The employee who is so authorised must take reasonable steps
to give notice of the seizure in the prescribed form to the following
persons:

       (a) persons who, in the opinion of the authorised employee,
            have a security interest in the aircraft;

       (b) each person who is an owner, an operator, a lessee, a hirer,
            a charterer or a pilot in command, of the aircraft; and

       (c) any other persons prescribed by the regulations.

 (4) An employee authorised by the Authority in writing to act under
this section is not entitled to seize an aircraft under this section if the
employee fails to comply with a request by the owner, operator or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

173  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

pilot in command of the aircraft to produce proof that the employee is
authorised to act under this section.

 (5) Where an aircraft is to be seized under this section, the
Authority must insure the aircraft, and keep it insured, against the loss
of, or any damage to, the aircraft during its seizure or while it is in the
custody, possession or control of the Authority or of an employee or
agent of the Authority.

 (6) The insurance must be for the benefit of the person or persons
prescribed by the regulations.

 (7) If the Authority pays any premium on the insurance policy, the
Authority may recover the amount of the premium, in a court of
competent jurisdiction, as a debt due by the person who is liable to
pay the amounts covered by the statutory lien on the aircraft.

Sale or disposal of aircraft

 93.—(1) This section applies if an outstanding amount covered by a
statutory lien on an aircraft remains unpaid at the end of 9 months
after the day on which it became an outstanding amount or the day on
which the lien was registered, whichever is the later.

 (2) The Authority may at any time do any of the following, whether
or not the aircraft has been seized under section 92:

       (a) sell or otherwise dispose of the aircraft as prescribed by the
            regulations;

       (b) execute all documents necessary for effecting the sale or
            disposal;

       (c) give effective title to the aircraft free of all encumbrances,
            leases and contracts of hire.

 (3) Before selling or otherwise disposing of the aircraft, the
Authority must take reasonable steps to give reasonable notice of
the sale or disposal to the persons mentioned in section 92(3).

 (4) The proceeds of a sale or disposal under this section must be
dealt with in accordance with the regulations.

 (5) For the purposes of section 92 and this section, any amounts
received by the Authority in discharge of outstanding amounts

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        174

covered by a statutory lien are taken to be applied successively in the
discharge of —

(a) firstly, any levy; and

(b) subsequently, those amounts of services charges, penalties
     and interest in the order in which they became payable.

Removal or dismantling of aircraft under statutory lien

 94.—(1) A person who knows that a statutory lien is in effect in
respect of an aircraft must not remove the aircraft from Singapore.

 (2) A person who knows that a statutory lien is in effect in respect of
an aircraft must not detach any part or equipment from the aircraft.

 (3) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply if the person has the prior
approval of an employee authorised by the Authority in writing to act
under this section.

 (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $200,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (5) For the purposes of establishing a contravention of
subsection (1), a person is taken to have known that a statutory
lien was in effect in respect of an aircraft if the person ought
reasonably to have known that fact, having regard to —

       (a) the person’s abilities, experience, qualifications and other
            attributes; and

       (b) all the circumstances surrounding the alleged
            contravention.

Review of decisions

 95.—(1) A person affected by a decision made under section 89, 92
or 93 may make a written application to the Authority to reconsider
the decision.

 (2) The application must be made within 28 days after the day on
which the decision first comes to the notice of the person, or within

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

175  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

such further period as the Authority allows, either before or after the
end of that 28‑day period.

 (3) The application must set out the grounds on which the applicant
is requesting reconsideration of the decision.

 (4) Within 28 days after receiving the application, the Authority
must reconsider the decision and affirm or revoke the decision, or
vary the decision, as the Authority thinks fit.

 (5) Where the Authority affirms, revokes or varies a decision, the
Authority must inform the applicant in writing of the result of the
reconsideration of the decision, and give its reasons.

                                   PART 10

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Application of Act to Government

 96.—(1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (2), this Act
binds the Government and applies to the Government.

 (2) Nothing in this Act renders the Government liable to
prosecution for an offence.

Non-interference with procurement by airport licensee, etc.

 97. To avoid doubt, nothing in this Act entitles the Government,
Minister or Authority to issue any directions, or to impose any licence
condition or other requirement, to control or regulate the procurement
by an airport licensee or exempt airport operator of goods or service,
or a combination of goods and service, by any contractual means,
such as purchase or lease, rental or hire purchase, with or without an
option to buy the goods or service or combination of goods or service.

Advisory guidelines

 97A.—(1) The Authority may make advisory guidelines about any
aspect of airport services and facilities or essential transport services.

 (2) The Authority may also make advisory guidelines with a view
to providing guidance or certainty in respect of any one or more of the
provisions in this Act.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        176

 (3) Advisory guidelines under subsection (1), for example, may be
made about —

(a) any matter in respect of which codes of practice and
     standards of performance may be made under section 44;
     or

(b) the use, construction, design or performance of anything
     relating to airport services and facilities or essential
     transport services.

 (4) Advisory guidelines under subsection (2), for example, may be
made about —

(a) what amounts to a material function of a designated
     operating entity for the purposes of section 67B(1)(a); or

(b) the relevant principles to consider in determining what
     amounts to a material impediment to or impairment of the
     operations of a designated operating entity for the purposes
     of section 67B(3)(a).

 (5) The Authority may make different advisory guidelines under
subsection (2) in respect of different persons or entities or different
classes of persons or entities.

(6) The Authority must —

(a) give a copy of each advisory guideline it makes to the
     Minister; and

(b) publish each advisory guideline (in any way that the
     Authority thinks fit), send each advisory guideline to each
     person or entity to whom the guideline applies (by any
     mode the Authority thinks fit), or both.

 (7) Despite subsection (6)(b), the Authority must publish each
advisory guideline (in any way that the Authority thinks fit) if the
advisory guideline has any effect on the rights of any person or entity
other than the person or entity to which the advisory guideline
applies.

 (8) The failure to comply with subsection (6) or (7) in respect of any
advisory guideline does not invalidate the advisory guideline.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
                 Civil Aviation Authority of

177              Singapore Act 2009                            2020 Ed.

Power to exempt

 98. The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, by order
in the Gazette, exempt any person or development from all or any of
the provisions (or any part of any provision) of this Act (except
section 36).

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

General penalty

 99. Any person who is guilty of an offence under this Act or any
regulations or rules for which no penalty is expressly provided shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Service of documents, etc.

 100.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), any document required or
authorised to be given or served under this Act may be served —

       (a) in the case of an individual —

               (i) by delivering it to the individual personally;

              (ii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently resident
                   at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post to, the
                   usual or last known address of the individual’s place
                   of residence;

             (iii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently
                   employed at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
                   post to, the usual or last known address of the
                   individual’s place of business;

             (iv) by affixing a copy of the notice in a conspicuous
                   place at the usual or last known address of residence
                   or business of the individual; or

              (v) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
                   usual or last known address of the individual’s place
                   of residence or business, or the last fax number given
                   to the Authority or an authorised officer by the
                   individual as the fax number for the service of
                   documents on the individual;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        178

(b) in the case of a partnership other than a limited liability
     partnership —

          (i) by delivering it to any one of the partners or the
              secretary or other like officer of the partnership;

          (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
               post to, the principal or last known place of business
               of the partnership in Singapore; or

          (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
                principal or last known place of business of the
                partnership in Singapore; and

          (c) in the case of any limited liability partnership or any other
              body corporate —

          (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other like officer
              of the body corporate or, in the case of a limited
              liability partnership, the manager thereof;

          (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
               post to, the registered office or principal office of the
               limited liability partnership or body corporate in
               Singapore; or

          (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
                registered office or principal office of the limited
                liability partnership or body corporate in Singapore.

 (2) Where any notice or other document to be served by the
Authority or the Minister is —

(a) sent by fax to the fax number operated at the last known
     place of residence or business or registered office or
     principal office in accordance with subsection (1), it is
     deemed to have been duly served on the person to whom it
     is addressed on the day of transmission, subject to receipt
     on the sending fax machine of a notification (by electronic
     or other means) of a successful transmission to the place of
     residence or business or registered office or principal
     office, as the case may be; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

179  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     (b) sent by prepaid registered post, it is deemed to have been
          duly served on the person to whom it is addressed 2 days
          after the day the notice or document was posted, whether or
          not it is returned undelivered.

 (3) This section does not apply to notices and documents to be
served in proceedings in court.

Jurisdiction of court

 101. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any
offence under this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or
punishment in respect of the offence.

Power to amend Third Schedule

 101A. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend the Third
Schedule.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Regulations

 102.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this
Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may, with the
approval of the Minister, make regulations for or with respect to all or
any of the following matters:

       (a) the fees to be paid in respect of the issue, validation,
            renewal, extension or variation of any certificate, licence
            or other document or the undergoing of any examination or
            test required by the regulations and in respect of any other
            matters in respect of which it appears to the Authority to be
            expedient for the purpose of the regulations to charge fees;

       (b) the manner of appointment, conduct and discipline and the
            terms and conditions of service of employees of the
            Authority;

       (c) the payment of gratuities and other benefits to employees
            of the Authority;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        180

(d) the monitoring and evaluation of the quality of such
     aspects of airport services and facilities provided by airport
     licensees or by a person other than such a licensee under an
     agreement with an airport licensee;

          (e) the offences which may be compounded under section 85;

          (f) the procedure for appeals against the decision of a slots
              coordinator or schedules facilitator under section 71J
              or 71K, respectively;

      (fa) the sustainability criteria to be met for the purposes of the
            definition of “SAF” or “sustainable aviation fuel”, by
            reference to standards set or recommended by ICAO or any
            other organisation in or outside Singapore which sets
            sustainable aviation standards, as amended from time to
            time;

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2025 wef 01/10/2026]

       (g) the prescribing of anything that is required or permitted to
            be prescribed under this Act.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (3) The regulations made under this section may provide that any
contravention of any provision of the regulations shall be an offence
punishable with a fine not exceeding $100,000 or with imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 5 years or with both.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (4) All regulations made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Saving and transitional provision

 103. Any written law or document referring to the repealed Act or
any provision thereof is, as far as may be necessary for preserving its
effect, to be construed as referring or as including a reference to this
Act or the corresponding provision in this Act, as the case may be.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

181  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 6(2)

           CONSTITUTION AND PROCEEDINGS OF AUTHORITY
Appointment of Chairperson, Deputy Chairperson and other members
 1.—(1) The Chairperson and other members of the Authority must be appointed
by the Minister.

 (2) The Minister may appoint one of the members to be the Deputy Chairperson;
and the Deputy Chairperson so appointed may, subject to such directions as may
be given by the Chairperson, exercise all or any of the powers exercisable by the
Chairperson under this Act.

 (3) The Minister may appoint the Chief Executive to be a member of the
Authority.

Tenure of office of members

 2. A member holds office on such conditions and for such term as the Minister
may determine and is eligible for re‑appointment.

Temporary members

 3. The Minister may appoint any person to be a temporary member during the
temporary incapacity from illness or otherwise, or during the temporary absence
from Singapore, of any member.

Temporary Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson

 4. The Minister may appoint any member to be a temporary Chairperson or
temporary Deputy Chairperson during the temporary incapacity from illness or
otherwise, or during the temporary absence from Singapore, of the Chairperson or
the Deputy Chairperson, as the case may be.

Revocation of appointment

 5. The Minister may, at any time, revoke the appointment of the Chairperson or
the Deputy Chairperson or any member; and in exercising his or her power under
this paragraph, the Minister is not required to give any reason for the revocation.

Resignation

 6. Any member may resign from his or her appointment at any time by giving at
least one month’s notice in writing to the Minister.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                        182

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Chairperson may delegate functions

 7. The Chairperson may, by instrument in writing and subject to such conditions
or restrictions as he or she thinks fit, authorise any member to exercise any power
or perform any function conferred on the Chairperson by or under this Act.

Vacation of office
 8. The office of a member is vacated if he or she —

        (a) has been absent, without leave of the Authority, from 3 consecutive
             meetings of the Authority; or

        (b) becomes in any manner disqualified for membership of the Authority.

Filling of vacancies

 9. If a member resigns, dies or has his or her appointment revoked or otherwise
vacates his or her office before the expiry of the term for which he or she has been
appointed, the Minister may appoint a person to fill the vacancy for the remainder
of the term for which the vacating member was appointed.

Leave of absence

 10. The Minister may grant to the Chairperson or any member such leave of
absence as the Minister may think fit.

Disqualification from membership

 11. A person must not be appointed or continue to hold office as a member if the
person —

        (a) is an undischarged bankrupt or has made any arrangement or
             composition with his or her creditors;

        (b) is incapacitated by physical or mental illness; or

        (c) has been sentenced to imprisonment for a term of not less than
             6 months and has not received a free pardon.

Salaries, etc., payable to members

 12. There are to be paid to the Chairperson and other members, out of the funds
of the Authority, such salaries, fees and allowances as the Minister may determine.

Meetings of Authority

 13.—(1) The Authority is to meet for the despatch of business at such times and
places as the Chairperson may appoint.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

183  Singapore Act 2009                                            2020 Ed.

     FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

 (2) At every meeting of the Authority, one-third of the membership or
3 members, whichever is higher, form a quorum.

 (3) A decision at a meeting of the Authority is adopted by a simple majority of
the members present and voting except that in the case of an equality of votes the
Chairperson or member presiding has a casting vote in addition to his or her
original vote.

 (4) The Chairperson or in his or her absence the Deputy Chairperson presides at
meetings of the Authority.

 (5) Where both the Chairperson and the Deputy Chairperson are absent at a
meeting, such member as the members present may elect presides at that meeting.

 (6) Where not less than 4 members of the Authority request the Chairperson by
notice in writing signed by them to convene a meeting of the Authority for any
purpose specified in the notice, the Chairperson must, within 7 days from the
receipt of the notice, convene a meeting for that purpose.

 (7) The Chairperson may hold a meeting of the Authority, or permit any member
to take part in a meeting, by using any technology that reasonably allows the
member to hear and participate in discussions as they happen, and such a member
who so participates in the meeting is taken to be present at the meeting.

 (8) The Chairperson may permit the participation of a member under
sub‑paragraph (7) subject to such requirements as to confidentiality or such
other conditions as he or she may think fit.

Vacancies
 14. The Authority may act despite any vacancy in its membership.

Procedure at meetings

 15. Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, the Authority may make rules to regulate its own procedure generally,
and in particular, regarding the holding and proceedings of meetings, the notice to
be given of such meetings, the keeping of minutes and the custody, production and
inspection of the minutes.

Validity of proceedings

 16. The validity of any proceedings of the Authority is not affected by any defect
in the appointment of any member.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
                        Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.                Singapore Act 2009                          184

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Secretary of Authority

 17. The Authority may appoint an employee thereof to be the secretary of the
Authority, who is responsible, in accordance with such instructions as may be
given to the secretary by the Chairperson of the Authority, for arranging the
business for, and keeping the minutes of, the meetings of the Authority and for
conveying the decisions of the Authority to the appropriate person or authority and
has such other functions as the Chairperson may, from time to time, direct.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

                           SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 8(1)

                               POWERS OF AUTHORITY

 1. To conduct such investigations as may be necessary for enforcing this Act or
the Air Navigation Act 1966.

 2. To provide or acquire or assume the operation, maintenance or management
of any airport under this Act.

 3. To conduct or supervise the conduct of examinations or tests leading to the
grant of a licence, certificate, permit, permission, consent, concurrence, aviation
safety instrument or approval by the Authority under this Act or any other written
law.

 4. To develop and issue appropriate, clear and concise aviation safety standards,
codes, rules, requirements, specifications or other documents for the purpose of
providing practical guidance or certainty to, or otherwise relating to —

        (a) the flight crew engaged in operations of aircraft;

        (b) the design, construction, maintenance, operation and use of aircraft
             and related equipment;

        (c) the planning, construction, establishment, operation and use of
             aerodromes;

        (d) the establishment and use of airspace;

        (e) the regulation of air navigation services;

         (f) the personnel engaged in the maintenance of aircraft and related
             equipment; or

        (g) any matter that is the subject of any order or regulations under the Air
             Navigation Act 1966,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

185  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

and to develop effective enforcement strategies to secure compliance with those
aviation safety standards, codes or specifications.

 5. To conduct regular reviews of the system of civil aviation safety in order to
monitor the safety performance of the aviation industry, to identify safety-related
trends and risk factors and to conduct regular and timely assessment of
international safety developments.

 6. To conduct comprehensive safety education and training programmes and
provide accurate and timely aviation safety advice.

 7. To develop and issue appropriate, clear and concise standards, codes or other
documents for the purpose of providing practical guidance or certainty to, or
otherwise relating to airport capacity management under Part 6A.

 8. To provide information or issue notices relating to any matter in connection
with the Authority’s functions and duties in such form or manner as the Authority
may determine.

 9. To impose such charges and fees as may in the Authority’s opinion be
appropriate for the grant, validation or renewal of licences, permits, certificates,
approvals, consents, concurrences, aviation safety instruments, exemptions and
other services provided by the Authority under this Act or any other written law,
and to remit or waive the whole or any part of any such charges or fees paid or
payable to the Authority.

 10. To regulate rates, charges and fees levied by operators of airports in
Singapore.

 11. To recover any expenses incurred by the Authority in connection with air
services negotiations and consultations from the airline designated by the
Government for the purpose of those negotiations and consultations.

 12. To take up and subscribe for or otherwise acquire shares in any company or
form or participate in the formation of —

     (a) any company, joint venture or partnership for the purpose of carrying
          out all or any of the functions of the Authority; and

     (b) with the approval of the Minister, any company, joint venture or
          partnership for such other purposes as the Minister may approve.

13. To enter into a partnership or an arrangement for the sharing of profits.

 14. To participate in any overseas venture or activity with respect to any matter
in relation to civil aviation.

 15. To become a member or an affiliate of any international body whose
functions, objects or duties relate to civil aviation.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
          Civil Aviation Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2009                                               186

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

 16. To engage in any activity, either alone or in conjunction with other
international agencies or organisations including civil aviation authorities, for the
purpose of promoting and developing civil aviation and to obtain, collect and
exchange information relating to civil aviation and aerospace industries.

 17. To provide services for a foreign country or with an agency of a foreign
country in relation to the regulation of the safety of air navigation or any other
matter in which the Authority has expertise including conducting safety regulation
in relation to foreign registered aircraft under the law of a foreign country.

 18. To provide consultancy services, technical advice or assistance in Singapore
or elsewhere, for any person with respect to any matter in relation to civil aviation.

 19. To enter into all contracts for the supply of goods, services or materials or for
the execution of works or any other contracts as may be necessary for the
discharge of its functions and duties under this Act or any other written law.

 20. To utilise all the property of the Authority, movable and immovable, in such
manner as the Authority may think expedient.

 21. To carry out such other works or activities as may appear to the Authority
requisite, advantageous or convenient, with a view to making the best use of any
of the property or assets of the Authority.

 22. To receive donations and contributions from any source and raise funds by
all lawful means.

 23. To provide financial grant, aid or assistance to any person for all or any of the
purposes of this Act or the Air Navigation Act 1966.

 24. To grant loans to employees of the Authority for any purposes specifically
approved by the Authority.

 25. To make provision for welfare benefits, gratuities, pensions, provident
funds, allowances or other superannuation benefits for employees or former
employees (or their dependents) of the Authority.

26. To provide recreational facilities for employees of the Authority.

 27. To make provision for the training of any employee of the Authority, and in
that connection, to offer scholarships to intending trainees or otherwise pay for the
cost of the training and all expenditure incidental thereto.

 28. To offer bursaries and scholarships for study at any school or institution of
higher learning to members of the public and officers or employees of the
Authority and members of their families.

29. To establish and maintain offices, whether in Singapore or elsewhere.

30. To promote or undertake publicity in any form.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
     Civil Aviation Authority of

187  Singapore Act 2009                                        2020 Ed.

     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

 31. To do anything incidental to any of its functions under this Act or any other
written law.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

                            THIRD SCHEDULE

                                                                                          Sections 56A and 101A

                        ESSENTIAL TRANSPORT SERVICES
 The following services and facilities provided to support the operations at
Changi Airport:

        (a) airport passenger and cargo operations;
        (b) ground handling operations;
        (c) aerodrome operations;
        (d) passenger and cargo air services;
        (e) aircraft maintenance and maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO)

             activities;
         (f) airport fuel storage and hydrant system operations.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
                      LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
CIVIL AVIATION AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE ACT 2009

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 17 of 2009 — Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore Act 2009

Date of First Reading     : 23 March 2009
                                (Bill No. 10/2009 published on
                                23 March 2009)

Date of Second and Third  : 13 April 2009
Readings

Dates of commencement     : 1 July 2009 (except sections 86 and
                                87)
                                1 October 2009 (sections 86 and 87)

Note: The Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore Act 2009 repealed and
        re‑enacted with amendments the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore
        Act (Chapter 41, 1985 Revised Edition).

2. Act 4 of 2010 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2010

Date of First Reading     : 23 November 2009
                                (Bill No. 26/2009 published on
                                24 November 2009)

Date of Second and Third  : 12 January 2010
Readings

Date of commencement      : 5 February 2010 (section 10 —
                                amendment of Civil Aviation
                                Authority of Singapore Act)

3. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010

Date of First Reading     : 26 April 2010
                                (Bill No. 11/2010 published on
                                26 April 2010)

Date of Second and Third  : 19 May 2010
Readings

Date of commencement      : 2 January 2011 (item 16 of the Sixth
                                Schedule — amendment of Civil
                                Aviation Authority of Singapore Act)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
                          ii

4. Act 2 of 2012 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2012

Date of First Reading     : 21 November 2011
                                (Bill No. 22/2011 published on
                                21 November 2011)

Date of Second and Third  : 18 January 2012
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 March 2012 (section 18 —
                                amendment of Civil Aviation
                                Authority of Singapore Act)

5. Act 11 of 2012 — Energy Conservation Act 2012

Date of First Reading     : 8 March 2012
                                (Bill No. 8/2012 published on 8 March
                                2012)

Date of Second and Third  : 9 April 2012
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 July 2012 (item 1 of Second
                                Schedule — amendment of Civil
                                Aviation Authority of Singapore Act)

6. Act 10 of 2014 — Air Navigation (Amendment) Act 2014

Date of First Reading     : 20 January 2014
                                (Bill No. 6/2014 published on
                                20 January 2014)

Date of Second and Third  : 17 February 2014
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 April 2014

7. 2014 Revised Edition — Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore Act
                                    (Chapter 41)

Date of operation         : 31 May 2014

8. Act 25 of 2015 — Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore (Amendment)
                           Act 2015

Date of First Reading     : 13 July 2015 (Bill No. 28/2015
                                published on 13 July 2015)

Date of Second and Third  : 18 August 2015
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 September 2015

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
                          iii

9. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018

Date of First Reading     : 6 November 2017 (Bill No. 45/2017
                                published on 6 November 2017)

Date of Second and Third  : 8 January 2018
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 April 2018

10. Act 18 of 2018 — Aviation (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2018

Date of First Reading     : 28 February 2018 (Bill No. 13/2018
                                published on 28 February 2018)

Date of Second and Third  : 19 March 2018
Readings

Date of commencement      : 29 June 2018

11. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018

Date of First Reading     : 10 September 2018 (Bill No. 32/2018
                                published on 10 September 2018)

Date of Second and Third  : 1 October 2018
Readings

Date of commencement      : 30 July 2020

12. 2020 Revised Edition — Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore Act 2009

Operation                 : 31 December 2021

13. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                      : 24/2022

First Reading             : 12 September 2022

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 2022

Commencement              : 1 November 2022

14. Act 36 of 2018 — Transport Safety Investigations Act 2018
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Date of First Reading     : 10 July 2018 (Bill No. 28/2018
                                published on 10 July 2018)

Second and Third Readings : 6 August 2018

Date of Commencement      : 1 January 2024

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
               iv

15. Act 20 of 2024 — Transport Sector (Critical Firms) Act 2024

Bill           : 16/2024

First Reading  : 25 April 2024

Second and Third Readings : 8 May 2024

Commencement   : 1 April 2025

16. Act 16 of 2025 — Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore (Amendment)
                             Act 2025

First Reading  : 22 September 2025

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 2025

Commencement   : 1 October 2026

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
                       COMPARATIVE TABLE
CIVIL AVIATION AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE ACT 2009

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2014 Ed.
—                          10—(4) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
[Omitted as spent]         25A—(2)
25A—(2)
                              (3)
   (3)                        (4)
   (4)                        (5)
27—(5)                     27—(4A)
   (6)                        (5)
   (7)                        (6)
   (8)                        (7)
   (9)                        (8)
   (10)                       (9)
   (11)                       (10)
[Omitted as spent]         103—(1)
[Omitted as spent]            (2)
[Omitted as spent]            (3)
103                           (4)
—                          THIRD SCHEDULE [Repealed by
                           Act 5 of 2018]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2026
