   REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS ACT 2021

                               (No. 17 of 2021)

                           ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                                            PART 1
                                      PRELIMINARY
Section
     1. Short title and commencement
     2. Interpretation

                                            PART 2
                                    ADMINISTRATION
     3. Registrar‑General of Births and Deaths
     4. Registrars, deputies and assistants
     5. Registration officers
     6. Delegation to registration officers

                                            PART 3
                                           BIRTHS
                             Division 1 — Birth in Singapore
     7. Report of birth in Singapore
     8. Responsibility to provide birth particulars
     9. Registration of birth in Singapore
               Division 2 — Birth in conveyance bound for Singapore
   10. Report of birth in aircraft, vessel or train bound for Singapore
   11. Application of sections 12 and 13
   12. Application for registration of birth mentioned in section 11
   13. Registration of birth mentioned in section 11
                   Division 3 — Registration of birth in other cases
                                     and related matters
   14. Registration or re‑registration of birth of adopted child
   15. Re‑registration of birth of person legitimated by Legitimacy
            Act 1934

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2        NO. 17 OF 2021

Section  Birth registration and Status of Children (Assisted Reproduction
   16.   Technology) Act 2013
         Re‑registration of birth in relation to Status of Children (Assisted
   17.   Reproduction Technology) Act 2013
         Re‑registration of birth of person legitimated by Status of
   18.   Children (Assisted Reproduction Technology) Act 2013

         Division 4 — Name in register of births

   19. Name in register of births
   20. Child’s name omitted during birth registration
   21. Alteration of child’s name in register of births

                                           PART 4

                                          DEATHS

                            Division 1 — Death in Singapore

   22. Report of death in Singapore
   23. Duties of medical practitioner who receives report of death

            under section 22(3)
   24. Registration of death in Singapore
   25. Registration of reportable death in Singapore without Coroner’s

            certificate

                        Division 2 — Death outside Singapore

   26. Report of death in aircraft, vessel or train bound for Singapore
   27. Registration of death in conveyance reported under section 26
   28. Registration of death of Singapore citizen or permanent resident

            outside Singapore
   29. Registration of death under Coroner’s certificate

                              Division 3 — Related matters

   30. Coroner’s certificate issued after death registration
   31. Duty to report death under other written law not affected

                                           PART 5

                                       STILLBIRTHS

                          Division 1 — Stillbirth in Singapore

   32. Report of stillbirth in Singapore
   33. Duties of medical practitioner who receives report of stillbirth

            under section 32(3)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
      REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                                 3

Section
   34. Registration of stillbirth in Singapore

            Division 2 — Stillbirth in conveyance bound for Singapore

   35. Report of stillbirth in aircraft, vessel or train bound for
            Singapore

   36. Registration of stillbirth in conveyance reported under
            section 35

                                        PART 6

                   REGISTERS AND RELATED MATTERS

37. Registers
38. Alteration of record in register
39. Correction of clerical error in record in register
40. Correction of error of fact or substance in record in register
41. Cancellation of registration

                                        PART 7
                INFORMATION AND RELATED MATTERS

42. Power to obtain information
43. Form and manner of information, etc.

      PART 8

      INVESTIGATIONS, GENERAL OFFENCES
                AND RELATED MATTERS

44.   Taking possession of false or invalid documents
45.   Powers of search, etc.
46.   Powers of investigation
47.   Authorised registration officer to produce evidence of identity
      and authority
48.   False or misleading statement or information
49.   Offences relating to register
50.   Offences relating to certificates or extracts
50A.  Extended criminal jurisdiction for possessing false certificate,
      etc.
51.   Obstruction
52.   Offences by corporations
53.   Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
54.   Jurisdiction of courts

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
4  NO. 17 OF 2021

Section
   55. Composition of offences

                                            PART 9

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   56. Police officer’s functions or powers under other written law
   57. Authorisation to provide information, etc., on behalf of person
   58. Payments into Consolidated Fund
   59. Service of documents
   60. Exemption
   61. Regulations
   62. Repeal
   63. Saving and transitional provisions

                                           PART 10

             CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS

   64. Amendment of Adoption of Children Act 1939
   65. Amendment of Infectious Diseases Act 1976
   66. Amendment of Legitimacy Act 1934
   67. Amendment of Merchant Shipping Act 1995
   68. Amendment of National Registration Act 1965
   69. Amendment of Status of Children (Assisted Reproduction

            Technology) Act 2013

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS  5

An Act to provide for registration of births, deaths and stillbirths, to
  repeal the Registration of Births and Deaths Act (Chapter 267 of the
  1985 Revised Edition) and to make consequential amendments to
  certain other Acts.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
6  NO. 17 OF 2021

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the Registration of Births and Deaths Act 2021 and
comes into operation on a date that the Minister appoints by
notification in the Gazette.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “authorised registration officer” means a registration officer
         authorised by the Registrar‑General to exercise all or any of
         the powers of an authorised registration officer mentioned in
         Part 8;

      “birth” does not include stillbirth;

      “birth particulars”, for a child, means —

              (a) any particulars relating to the child required by or
                   under this Act for the purposes of birth registration;
                   and

                                                                                 [Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

              (b) any other particulars relating to the child that the
                   Registrar‑General specifies on a prescribed website
                   for the purposes of birth registration;

      “birth registration” means registration of the birth of a child
         under this Act;

      “Coroner” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
         Coroners Act 2010;

      “Coroner’s certificate” means a certificate issued by a Coroner
         under the Coroners Act 2010 in respect of a death;

      “death” does not include stillbirth;

      “death particulars”, for a deceased person, means —

              (a) any particulars relating to the deceased person
                   required by or under this Act for the purposes of

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         7

             death registration, including the cause of death of the
             deceased person; and

        (b) any other particulars relating to the deceased person
             that the Registrar‑General specifies on a prescribed
             website for the purposes of death registration;

“death registration” means registration of a death under this Act;

“forensic pathologist” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of
   the Coroners Act 2010;

“information” includes documents;

“legal guardian”, for a child or minor, means a person who is
   lawfully appointed by deed or will or by the order of a
   competent court to be the guardian of the child or minor;

“limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by the
   Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

“master” means —

        (a) for an aircraft — the captain of the aircraft;

        (b) for a train — the driver, or any person having for the
             time being control or charge, of the train; and

        (c) for a vessel — any person (except a pilot or harbour
             master) having for the time being control or charge of
             the vessel;

“medical practitioner” means a registered medical practitioner
   under the Medical Registration Act 1997 who holds a valid
   practising certificate granted under that Act;

“minor” means a person who is below 21 years of age;

“occupier”, for any premises, means a person in occupation of,
   or having control or charge of, or managing, the premises
   (either on the person’s own account or as an agent of another
   person);

“pathologist” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
   Coroners Act 2010;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
8  NO. 17 OF 2021

   “permitted character”, for a name, means a character that the
      Registrar-General specifies by notification in the Gazette;

                                                                           [Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

   “protector” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
      Children and Young Persons Act 1993;

   “register” means the register of births, register of deaths or
      register of stillbirths;

   “registered event” means any birth, death or stillbirth that is
      registered under this Act;

   “registrable event” means any birth, death or stillbirth that is
      required to be, or may be, registered under this Act;

   “Registrar‑General” means the Registrar‑General of Births and
      Deaths appointed under section 3(1);

   “registration officer” means a person appointed as a registration
      officer under section 5(1);

   “repealed Act” means the Registration of Births and Deaths Act
      (Cap. 267) that is repealed by section 62;

   “reportable death” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
      Coroners Act 2010;

   “stillbirth” means the birth of a stillborn child;

   “stillbirth particulars”, for a stillborn child, means —

           (a) any particulars relating to the stillborn child required
                by or under this Act for the purposes of stillbirth
                registration, including the cause of death of the
                stillborn child; and

           (b) any other particulars relating to the stillborn child
                that the Registrar‑General specifies on a prescribed
                website for the purposes of stillbirth registration;

   “stillbirth registration” means registration of a stillbirth under
      this Act;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         9

      “stillborn child” means a child that —

              (a) issues from the child’s mother after the twenty-fourth
                   week of pregnancy; and

              (b) does not show any sign of life at any time after being
                   completely expelled or extracted from the mother,

         and, to avoid doubt, does not include a foetus that is aborted
         by or through treatment carried out for termination of
         pregnancy.

                                                                                 [Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

 (2) The Registrar‑General may specify —

       (a) different birth particulars under paragraph (b) of the
            definition of “birth particulars” in subsection (1) for
            children in different circumstances;

       (b) different death particulars under paragraph (b) of the
            definition of “death particulars” in subsection (1) for
            deceased persons in different circumstances; and

       (c) different stillbirth particulars under paragraph (b) of the
            definition of “stillbirth particulars” in subsection (1) for
            stillborn children in different circumstances.

 (3) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, a reference
to —

       (a) registration of a birth includes a reference to re‑registration
            of a birth;

       (b) a birth registered under this Act includes a reference to —

               (i) a birth registered under the repealed Act; or

              (ii) a birth registered or re‑registered under the Adoption
                   of Children Act 1939, or a birth re‑registered under
                   the Legitimacy Act 1934;

       (c) a death registered under this Act includes a reference to a
            death registered under the repealed Act;

       (d) a stillbirth registered under this Act includes a reference to
            a stillbirth registered under the repealed Act;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
10  NO. 17 OF 2021

      (e) a registered event includes a reference to —

             (i) a birth, death or stillbirth registered under the
                  repealed Act; or

            (ii) a birth registered or re‑registered under the Adoption
                  of Children Act 1939, or a birth re‑registered under
                  the Legitimacy Act 1934;

      (f) a certificate issued under this Act includes a reference to a
           replacement certificate issued under this Act, a certificate
           issued under the repealed Act or an equivalent document
           issued under the Adoption of Children Act 1939;

      (g) an extract issued under this Act includes a reference to an
           extract issued under the repealed Act or an equivalent
           document issued under the Adoption of Children Act 1939;

      (h) a country or territory includes a reference to the territorial
           waters of that country or territory; and

      (i) any premises includes a reference to a part of those
           premises.

(4) In this Act —

    “Adoption of Children Act 1939” includes the Adoption of
        Children Act (Cap. 4, 2012 Ed.) until it is revised and citable
        by the short title “Adoption of Children Act 1939”;

    “Children and Young Persons Act 1993” includes the Children
        and Young Persons Act (Cap. 38, 2001 Ed.) until it is revised
        and citable by the short title “Children and Young Persons
        Act 1993”;

    “Coroners Act 2010” includes the Coroners Act (Cap. 63A,
        2012 Ed.) until it is revised and citable by the short title
        “Coroners Act 2010”;

    “Criminal Procedure Code 2010” includes the Criminal
        Procedure Code (Cap. 68, 2012 Ed.) until it is revised and
        citable by the short title “Criminal Procedure Code 2010”;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         11

“Evidence Act 1893” includes the Evidence Act (Cap. 97,
   1997 Ed.) until it is revised and citable by the short title
   “Evidence Act 1893”;

“Financial Procedure Act 1966” includes the Financial
   Procedure Act (Cap. 109, 2012 Ed.) until it is revised and
   citable by the short title “Financial Procedure Act 1966”;

“Infectious Diseases Act 1976” includes the Infectious Diseases
   Act (Cap. 137, 2003 Ed.) until it is revised and citable by the
   short title “Infectious Diseases Act 1976”;

“Legitimacy Act 1934” includes the Legitimacy Act (Cap. 162,
   1985 Ed.) until it is revised and citable by the short title
   “Legitimacy Act 1934”;

“Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005” includes the Limited
   Liability Partnerships Act (Cap. 163A, 2006 Ed.) until it is
   revised and citable by the short title “Limited Liability
   Partnerships Act 2005”;

“Medical Registration Act 1997” includes the Medical
   Registration Act (Cap. 174, 2014 Ed.) until it is revised
   and citable by the short title “Medical Registration
   Act 1997”;

“Merchant Shipping Act 1995” includes the Merchant Shipping
   Act (Cap. 179, 1996 Ed.) until it is revised and citable by the
   short title “Merchant Shipping Act 1995”;

“National Registration Act 1965” includes the National
   Registration Act (Cap. 201, 1992 Ed.) until it is revised
   and citable by the short title “National Registration
   Act 1965”;

“Penal Code 1871” includes the Penal Code (Cap. 224,
   2008 Ed.) until it is revised and citable by the short title
   “Penal Code 1871”;

“Status of Children (Assisted Reproduction Technology)
   Act 2013” includes the Status of Children (Assisted
   Reproduction Technology) Act (Cap. 317A, 2015 Ed.) until

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
12  NO. 17 OF 2021

    it is revised and citable by the short title “Status of Children
    (Assisted Reproduction Technology) Act 2013”.

                                    PART 2

                            ADMINISTRATION

Registrar‑General of Births and Deaths

 3.—(1) The Minister must appoint, from among public officers, a
Registrar‑General of Births and Deaths.

 (2) The Registrar‑General is responsible for the administration of
this Act.

 (3) The Minister may give the Registrar‑General directions of a
general character, and not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act,
as to the performance of the functions and the exercise of the powers
of the Registrar‑General under this Act or any other written law; and
the Registrar‑General must give effect to such directions.

Registrars, deputies and assistants

 4.—(1) The Registrar‑General may appoint, by name or office, any
number of public officers to be Registrars, Supervising Deputy
Registrars and Assistant Registrars as the Registrar‑General
considers necessary for the purposes of this Act.

 (2) A Registrar, a Supervising Deputy Registrar or an Assistant
Registrar may perform the functions and exercise the powers of the
Registrar‑General under this Act (except the power of delegation
conferred by section 6(1)) and any other written law, subject to any
condition or restriction the Registrar‑General specifies.

 (3) An appointment under subsection (1), and any condition or
restriction specified under subsection (2), must be in writing.

 (4) Subject to any condition or restriction specified under
subsection (2), a reference to the Registrar‑General in this Act or
any other written law includes a reference to a Registrar, a
Supervising Deputy Registrar or an Assistant Registrar mentioned
in that subsection.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         13

Registration officers

 5.—(1) The Registrar‑General may, for the purposes of this Act,
appoint, by name or office, any of the following persons to be a
registration officer, subject to any condition or restriction the
Registrar‑General specifies:

       (a) a public officer;

       (b) an officer of a statutory body;

       (c) an employee of a prescribed institution.

 (2) An appointment under subsection (1) (including any condition
or restriction specified under that subsection) must be in writing.

 (3) Without affecting sections 20 and 21 of the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018, a registration officer —

       (a) is taken to be a public servant for the purposes of the Penal
            Code 1871 when performing a function or exercising a
            power of the Registrar‑General; and

       (b) is, in relation to the registration officer’s administration,
            collection or enforcement of payment of any fee, charge or
            composition sum under this Act or any other written law,
            taken to be a public officer for the purposes of the Financial
            Procedure Act 1966; and section 20 of that Act applies to
            the registration officer even though the registration officer
            is not or was not in the employment of the Government.

 (4) In subsection (1)(c), “prescribed institution” means an
institution prescribed by the Minister by order in the Gazette.

Delegation to registration officers

 6.—(1) The Registrar‑General may delegate any function or power
of the Registrar‑General under this Act (except the power of
delegation conferred by this subsection) or any other written law to
a registration officer or class of registration officers, subject to any
condition or restriction the Registrar‑General specifies.

 (2) A delegation under subsection (1) (including any condition or
restriction specified under that subsection) must be in writing.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
14  NO. 17 OF 2021

 (3) A delegation under subsection (1) does not prevent or affect the
performance of any function or the exercise of any power by the
Registrar‑General under this Act or any other written law.

 (4) Where any function or power of the Registrar‑General under
this Act or any other written law is delegated under subsection (1) to a
registration officer (whether specifically or as a member of a class of
registration officers), a reference to the Registrar‑General in this Act
or that other written law in relation to that function or power includes
(subject to any condition or restriction specified under that
subsection) a reference to that registration officer.

 (5) The Registrar‑General may also designate any appropriate
registration officer as a chief registration officer, and require the chief
registration officer to —

       (a) ensure that adequate systems, processes and facilities are
            implemented or provided to enable another registration
            officer or a class of registration officers (under the direct or
            indirect supervision of the chief registration officer) to
            perform any function or exercise any power delegated to
            that other registration officer or class of registration
            officers under subsection (1); and

       (b) perform related administrative duties.

                                    PART 3

                                    BIRTHS

                     Division 1 — Birth in Singapore

Report of birth in Singapore

 7.—(1) The birth of every child born in Singapore must be reported
in accordance with this section.

 (2) The following persons are responsible for reporting the birth of
a child in Singapore:

       (a) where the child is born in a hospital — every medical
            practitioner who attends to the birth, and the hospital (or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         15

            the person having general management and control of the
            hospital);

       (b) where the child is born outside a hospital and is brought to
            a hospital within 24 hours after the child’s birth — every
            medical practitioner who attends to the child at the
            hospital, and the hospital (or the person having general
            management and control of the hospital);

       (c) where the child is born in any premises (other than in a
            hospital) — the child’s parents, and every occupier of the
            premises who knows of the child’s birth in the premises;

       (d) where the child is born in an aircraft, a vessel or a train
            (called in this section the conveyance) while the
            conveyance is in Singapore — the child’s parents, and
            the master of the conveyance;

       (e) where the child is born in any other place — the child’s
            parents.

 (3) To avoid doubt, a person mentioned in subsection (2)(c), (d) or
(e) continues to be responsible for reporting the birth of a child
despite that the child is brought to a hospital within 24 hours after the
child’s birth.

 (4) A person responsible under subsection (2) for reporting the birth
of a child (called in this section the responsible person) must report
the child’s birth to the Registrar‑General as soon as practicable after
the child’s birth.

 (5) Where there is more than one responsible person in respect of a
birth and any of the responsible persons complies with subsection (4)
in respect of the birth, the duty of every other responsible person
under that subsection in respect of the birth is discharged by that
compliance.

 (6) A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (4) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,500 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding one month or to both.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
16  NO. 17 OF 2021

Responsibility to provide birth particulars

 8.—(1) A responsible person for a child born in Singapore must
provide to the Registrar‑General —

       (a) the birth particulars for the child, within 42 days after the
            child’s birth; and

       (b) any information or evidence the Registrar‑General requires
            that supports, or verifies the accuracy of, the birth
            particulars for the child, within the time the
            Registrar‑General requires.

 (1A) If the Registrar-General registers a child’s birth under
section 9(2) —

       (a) where the child’s birth is registered without a name for the
            child — the duty of a responsible person for the child under
            subsection (1)(a) to provide the child’s name continues
            despite the registration until the end of 7 years after the
            child’s birth;

       (b) where the child’s birth is registered without any other birth
            particular — the duty of a responsible person for the child
            under subsection (1)(a) to provide that birth particular
            continues despite the registration until that birth particular
            is provided to the Registrar-General; and

       (c) the registration does not affect the liability of a responsible
            person for the child for an offence under subsection (4).

                                                                                 [Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply in the case of a child who dies
within 42 days after the child’s birth.

 (3) Where there is more than one responsible person for the child
and any of the responsible persons complies with subsection (1)(a) or
(b) in respect of the child, the duty of every other responsible person
under that provision in respect of the child is discharged by that
compliance.

                                                                                 [Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

 (4) A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1)(a) or (b) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,500 or to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         17

imprisonment for a term not exceeding one month or to both and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $50
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

                                                                                 [Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

 (5) In this section, “responsible person”, for a child, means the
following:

       (a) every parent of the child;

       (b) where the child has a legal guardian, the legal guardian;

       (c) where the child is the subject of an order under
            section 49(1)(b) or 49B(2), or section 49C (read with
            section 49B), of the Children and Young Persons Act 1993,
            and an additional order is made under section 49A(4) or
            49D(2) (as the case may be) of that Act that enables the
            Director‑General of Social Welfare or a protector to make a
            decision relating to the child’s name — the
            Director‑General of Social Welfare or the protector, as
            the case may be.

Registration of birth in Singapore

 9.—(1) The Registrar‑General must register the birth of a child
born in Singapore, as soon as practicable after receiving the child’s
birth particulars (whether from a responsible person mentioned in
section 8(1) or any other person).

                                                                                 [Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

 (2) The Registrar-General may (at any time during or after the
period mentioned in section 8(1)(a)) register a child’s birth despite
receiving incomplete birth particulars for the child, if the Registrar-
General —

       (a) is satisfied that the child is born in Singapore; and

       (b) is of the opinion that the child’s birth is capable of being
            registered based on the birth particulars available to the
            Registrar-General at that time.

                                                                                 [Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

 (3) Where the Registrar‑General registers a child’s birth under
subsection (2) without a name for the child, the Registrar‑General

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
18  NO. 17 OF 2021

may enter an identifier for the child (in the form the Registrar‑General
thinks fit) in the register of births.

 (4) [Deleted by Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

       Division 2 — Birth in conveyance bound for Singapore

Report of birth in aircraft, vessel or train bound for Singapore

 10.—(1) The birth of every child born in an aircraft, a vessel or a
train (called in this section the conveyance) outside, but bound for,
Singapore must be reported in accordance with this section if —

       (a) the birth occurs —

               (i) in the case of an aircraft — during the flight of the
                   aircraft to an airport or any other place in Singapore;

              (ii) in the case of a vessel — during the voyage of the
                   vessel to a port or any other place in Singapore; or

             (iii) in the case of a train — during the passage of the train
                   to a station or any other place in Singapore; and

       (b) the child (or where the child dies before arriving in
            Singapore, the child’s body) arrives in Singapore, and the
            child (or the child’s body, as the case may be) was not taken
            to any foreign country or territory during the period
            between the time of the child’s birth and the arrival of the
            child (or the child’s body, as the case may be) in Singapore.

 (2) The following persons are responsible for reporting the birth of
a child mentioned in subsection (1):

       (a) in every case — the master of the conveyance in which the
            child (or the child’s body, as the case may be) arrives in
            Singapore, and every parent of the child who arrives in
            Singapore with the child (or the child’s body, as the case
            may be) in the conveyance;

       (b) in the case where the child is brought to a hospital in
            Singapore within 24 hours after the child’s birth — every
            medical practitioner who attends to the child at the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         19

            hospital, and the hospital (or the person having general
            management and control of the hospital).

 (3) To avoid doubt, a person mentioned in subsection (2)(a)
continues to be responsible for reporting the birth of a child despite
that the child is brought to a hospital within 24 hours after the child’s
birth.

 (4) A person responsible under subsection (2) for reporting the birth
of a child (called in this section the responsible person) must report
the child’s birth to the Registrar‑General as soon as practicable after
the child (or the child’s body, as the case may be) arrives in
Singapore.

 (5) Where there is more than one responsible person in respect of a
birth and any of the responsible persons complies with subsection (4)
in respect of the birth, the duty of every other responsible person
under that subsection in respect of the birth is discharged by that
compliance.

 (6) A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (4) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,500 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding one month or to both.

Application of sections 12 and 13

 11. Sections 12 and 13 apply to a child whose birth is required to be
and is reported to the Registrar‑General under section 10.

Application for registration of birth mentioned in section 11

 12.—(1) A responsible person for a child mentioned in section 11
may apply to the Registrar‑General for the child’s birth to be
registered.

 (2) The application by the responsible person (called in this section
the applicant) under subsection (1) —

       (a) must be made within 42 days after the child’s birth; and

       (b) must contain the birth particulars for the child.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
20  NO. 17 OF 2021

 (3) The applicant must also provide to the Registrar‑General any
information or evidence the Registrar‑General requires that supports
the application, or verifies the accuracy of the matters contained in or
accompanying the application, within the time the Registrar‑General
requires.

 (4) In this section, “responsible person”, for a child mentioned in
section 11, has the meaning given by section 8(5).

Registration of birth mentioned in section 11

 13.—(1) The Registrar‑General may, on an application made under
section 12, register the birth of a child mentioned in section 11 if —

       (a) the Registrar‑General is satisfied that the applicant
            mentioned in section 12 has complied with the
            requirements relating to the application;

       (b) there is no uncertainty or dispute as to the birth particulars
            for the child or registration of the birth in Singapore;

       (c) the name provided by the applicant for the child complies
            with section 19(1), and the Registrar‑General does not
            refuse the name under section 19(2);

       (d) the Registrar‑General is satisfied that the child’s birth is not
            registered under any corresponding law of a foreign
            country or territory; and

       (e) the child is in Singapore at the time of registration.

 (2) Despite subsection (1) and section 12, the Registrar‑General
may, on the Registrar‑General’s own volition, register the birth of a
child mentioned in section 11, at any time during or after the period
mentioned in section 12(2)(a), if the Registrar‑General —

       (a) is satisfied that the child’s birth is not registered under any
            corresponding law of a foreign country or territory;

                                                                                 [Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

       (b) is of the opinion that registration of the child’s birth is
            necessary —

               (i) where the child is in Singapore — in the interest of
                   the child; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         21

              (ii) where the child is deceased — to facilitate
                   registration of the child’s death under Part 4
                   (where applicable); and

                                                                                 [Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

       (c) where the birth particulars for the child are incomplete —
            is of the opinion that the child’s birth is capable of being
            registered based on the birth particulars available to the
            Registrar-General at that time.

                                                                                 [Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

 (3) Where the Registrar‑General registers a child’s birth under
subsection (2) without a name for the child, the Registrar‑General
may enter an identifier for the child (in the form the Registrar‑General
thinks fit) in the register of births.

           Division 3 — Registration of birth in other cases
                             and related matters

Registration or re‑registration of birth of adopted child

 14.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), if an adoption order is made by a
court in respect of a child under the Adoption of Children Act 2022 or
any corresponding previous written law, the Registrar‑General must,
as soon as practicable after receiving (from the Registrar of the court)
a copy of the adoption order and the particulars mentioned in
section 44(1) of the Adoption of Children Act 2022 —

       (a) in the case where the birth of the adopted child has not been
            registered under this Act — register the birth of the
            adopted child; or

                                                                                 [Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

       (b) in the case where the birth of the adopted child has been
            registered under this Act — indicate on the record of such
            registration in the register of births that the child is
            adopted, and re‑register the birth of the child.

                                                                                 [Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2022 wef 15/10/2024]

 (2) The particulars to be entered in the register for registration or
re‑registration (as the case may be) of the birth of an adopted child
under subsection (1) include the following:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
22  NO. 17 OF 2021

       (a) subject to subsection (3), the name conferred by the
            adoption order for the child must be entered in the register
            as the child’s name;

                                                                                 [Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

       (b) the particulars of the adopting parent or parents mentioned
            in the adoption order must be entered in the register as the
            particulars of the child’s parent or parents, as the case may
            be.

 (3) If the name of an adopted child, as conferred by the adoption
order, does not comply with section 19(1), or is refused by the
Registrar-General under section 19(2), the Registrar-General may —

       (a) withhold registration or re-registration (as the case may be)
            of the child’s birth under subsection (1) until the adoption
            order is amended to confer a name for the child that
            complies with section 19(1) and is not refused by the
            Registrar General under section 19(2); or

       (b) register or re-register (as the case may be) the child’s birth
            under subsection (1) without a name for the child.

                                                                                 [Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

 (4) If the Registrar-General registers or re-registers a child’s birth
under subsection (1) without a name for the child, the Registrar-
General may enter an identifier for the child (in the form the
Registrar-General thinks fit) in the register of births.

                                                                                 [Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

Re‑registration of birth of person legitimated by Legitimacy
Act 1934

 15.—(1) This section applies to a person (called in this section the
subject person) —

       (a) whose birth is registered under section 9 or 13 (or
            section 9, 17 or 23 of the repealed Act); and

       (b) who is legitimated by the Legitimacy Act 1934, on the
            marriage of the subject person’s parents, after the birth
            registration.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         23

 (2) An application may be made to the Registrar‑General for
re‑registration of the subject person’s birth by any of the following
persons (called in this section the applicant):

       (a) where the subject person is a minor — a parent of the
            subject person;

       (b) where the subject person is not a minor —

               (i) the subject person; or

              (ii) a parent of the subject person, with the consent of the
                   subject person.

 (3) The application under subsection (2) may include a change of
name for the subject person, but only to the extent of altering the
subject person’s name entered in the register of births to reflect the
paternity of the subject person.

 (4) The applicant must also provide to the Registrar‑General any
information or evidence the Registrar‑General requires that supports
the application, or verifies the accuracy of the matters contained in or
accompanying the application, within the time the Registrar‑General
requires.

 (5) The Registrar‑General may re‑register the birth of the subject
person if —

       (a) the Registrar‑General is satisfied that —

               (i) the applicant has complied with the requirements
                   relating to the application; and

              (ii) the subject person is legitimated by the Legitimacy
                   Act 1934; and

       (b) where the application includes a change of name for the
            subject person —

               (i) the new name complies with the requirements of
                   subsection (3), and with section 19(1); and

              (ii) the Registrar‑General does not refuse the new name
                   under section 19(2).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
24  NO. 17 OF 2021

 (6) This section does not affect the legitimation of a person by the
Legitimacy Act 1934.

Birth registration and Status of Children (Assisted
Reproduction Technology) Act 2013

 16.—(1) If the Registrar‑General is informed at or before
registration of a child’s birth under section 9 or 13 that the Status
of Children (Assisted Reproduction Technology) Act 2013 applies to
the child, the particulars of the child’s parents to be entered in the
register of births for registration of the child’s birth must be —

       (a) in the case where a court order is made under that Act
            declaring or determining the child’s parenthood — in
            accordance with the court order; or

       (b) in any other case — subject to subsection (2), in
            accordance with that Act.

 (2) Subsection (1)(b) does not apply if the Registrar‑General —

       (a) is not satisfied as to the parenthood of the child under the
            Status of Children (Assisted Reproduction Technology)
            Act 2013; or

       (b) is informed of any dispute as to the parenthood of the child
            under that Act.

 (3) If subsection (2)(a) or (b) applies in respect of the child, the
Registrar-General may —

       (a) in the case of registration under section 9 or 13(2) —
            register the child’s birth under section 9(2) or 13(2) (as the
            case may be) without entering the particulars of either or
            both of the parents in the register; or

       (b) in the case of registration being considered under
            section 13(1) — refuse to register the child’s birth under
            that provision.

                                                                                 [Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

 (4) This section does not affect the parenthood of a person under the
Status of Children (Assisted Reproduction Technology) Act 2013.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         25

Re‑registration of birth in relation to Status of Children
(Assisted Reproduction Technology) Act 2013

 17.—(1) This section applies to a person (called in this section the
subject person) —

       (a) to whom the Status of Children (Assisted Reproduction
            Technology) Act 2013 applies; and

       (b) whose birth is registered under section 9 or 13 (or
            section 9, 17 or 23 of the repealed Act) —

               (i) without the Registrar‑General being informed of the
                   application of the Status of Children (Assisted
                   Reproduction Technology) Act 2013 to the subject
                   person; or

              (ii) without entering the particulars of either or both of
                   the subject person’s parents in the register of births
                   due to the application of section 16(2)(a) or (b) at the
                   time of the birth registration.

 (2) An application may be made to the Registrar‑General for
re‑registration of the subject person’s birth by any of the following
persons (called in this section the applicant):

       (a) a person who is a parent, or claiming to be a parent, of the
            subject person;

       (b) where the subject person is a minor and has a legal
            guardian — the legal guardian;

       (c) where the subject person is not a minor — the subject
            person;

       (d) where a court order is made under the Status of Children
            (Assisted Reproduction Technology) Act 2013 declaring
            or determining the subject person’s parenthood — the
            person who applied for the court order.

 (3) The application under subsection (2) may include a change of
name for the subject person, but only to the extent of altering the
subject person’s name entered in the register of births to reflect the
parenthood of the subject person.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
26  NO. 17 OF 2021

 (4) The applicant must also provide to the Registrar‑General any
information or evidence the Registrar‑General requires that supports
the application, or verifies the accuracy of the matters contained in or
accompanying the application, within the time the Registrar‑General
requires.

 (5) Where a court order is made under the Status of Children
(Assisted Reproduction Technology) Act 2013 declaring or
determining the subject person’s parenthood, the Registrar‑General
may re‑register the subject person’s birth in accordance with the court
order if —

       (a) the Registrar‑General is satisfied that the applicant has
            complied with the requirements relating to the application;
            and

       (b) where the application includes a change of name for the
            subject person —

               (i) the new name complies with the requirements of
                   subsection (3), and with section 19(1);

              (ii) the Registrar‑General does not refuse the new name
                   under section 19(2); and

             (iii) where the subject person is not a minor and is not the
                   applicant — the subject person consents to the new
                   name.

 (6) Where there is no court order declaring or determining the
subject person’s parenthood under the Status of Children (Assisted
Reproduction Technology) Act 2013, the Registrar‑General may
re‑register the subject person’s birth in accordance with that Act if —

       (a) the Registrar‑General —

               (i) is satisfied that the applicant has complied with the
                   requirements relating to the application;

              (ii) is satisfied as to the parenthood of the subject person
                   under that Act; and

             (iii) is not informed of any dispute as to the parenthood of
                   the subject person under that Act; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         27

       (b) where the application includes a change of name for the
            subject person —

               (i) the new name complies with the requirements of
                   subsection (3), and with section 19(1);

              (ii) the Registrar‑General does not refuse the new name
                   under section 19(2); and

             (iii) where the subject person is not a minor and is not the
                   applicant — the subject person consents to the new
                   name.

 (7) This section does not affect the parenthood of a person under the
Status of Children (Assisted Reproduction Technology) Act 2013.

Re‑registration of birth of person legitimated by Status of
Children (Assisted Reproduction Technology) Act 2013

 18.—(1) This section applies to a person (called in this section the
subject person) —

       (a) whose birth is registered under section 9 or 13 (or
            section 9, 17 or 23 of the repealed Act), or re‑registered
            under section 17 (or rule 8A or 8B of the Registration of
            Births and Deaths Rules (Cap. 267, R 1) as in force
            immediately before the date of commencement of this
            section), in accordance with the Status of Children
            (Assisted Reproduction Technology) Act 2013 or an
            order made under that Act declaring or determining the
            subject person’s parenthood; and

       (b) who is legitimated by the Status of Children (Assisted
            Reproduction Technology) Act 2013 after the birth
            registration or re‑registration.

 (2) An application may be made to the Registrar‑General for
re‑registration of the subject person’s birth by any of the following
persons (called in this section the applicant):

       (a) where the subject person is a minor — a parent of the
            subject person;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
28  NO. 17 OF 2021

       (b) where the subject person is not a minor —

               (i) the subject person; or

              (ii) a parent of the subject person, with the consent of the
                   subject person.

 (3) The application under subsection (2) may include a change of
name for the subject person, but only to the extent of altering the
subject person’s name entered in the register of births to reflect the
paternity of the subject person.

 (4) The applicant must also provide to the Registrar‑General any
information or evidence the Registrar‑General requires that supports
the application, or verifies the accuracy of the matters contained in or
accompanying the application, within the time the Registrar‑General
requires.

 (5) The Registrar‑General may re‑register the birth of the subject
person if —

       (a) the Registrar‑General is satisfied that —

               (i) the applicant has complied with the requirements
                   relating to the application; and

              (ii) the subject person is legitimated by the Status of
                   Children (Assisted Reproduction Technology)
                   Act 2013; and

       (b) where the application includes a change of name for the
            subject person —

               (i) the new name complies with the requirements of
                   subsection (3), and with section 19(1); and

              (ii) the Registrar‑General does not refuse the new name
                   under section 19(2).

 (6) This section does not affect the legitimation of a person by the
Status of Children (Assisted Reproduction Technology) Act 2013.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         29

                 Division 4 — Name in register of births

Name in register of births

 19.—(1) The name of a person to be entered in the register of births
or, where the person’s name in the register is to be altered, the
person’s altered name to be entered in the register —

       (a) must be in a form expressed in characters in the modern
            English alphabet;

       (b) may include a permitted character; and

       (c) must not exceed the number of characters permitted in the
            electronic form of the register for the entry of a name.

 (2) The Registrar‑General may refuse to enter or alter a person’s
name in the register if the name or altered name (as the case may
be) —

       (a) contains anything that represents or resembles a title, a
            rank or an award;

       (b) where the name or altered name (as the case may be)
            adopts a patronymic or matronymic naming system to
            signify lineage — includes any expression or abbreviation
            (for the purposes of that naming system) that does not
            correspond to the child’s sex entered or to be entered in the
            register;

       (c) is obscene or offensive; or

       (d) is contrary to the public interest.

 (3) [Deleted by Act 2 of 2024 wef 16/04/2024]

Child’s name omitted during birth registration

 20.—(1) Where a child’s birth is registered without a name, a
responsible person for the child may apply to the Registrar‑General
for a name to be entered for the child in the register of births.

 (2) The responsible person (called in this section the applicant)
must make the application under subsection (1) within 7 years after
the child’s birth.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
30  NO. 17 OF 2021

 (3) The applicant must also provide to the Registrar‑General any
information or evidence the Registrar‑General requires that supports
the application, or verifies the accuracy of the matters contained in or
accompanying the application, within the time the Registrar‑General
requires.

 (4) The Registrar‑General may enter the child’s name in the register
if —

       (a) the Registrar‑General is satisfied that the applicant has
            complied with the requirements relating to the application;
            and

       (b) the name provided by the applicant for the child complies
            with section 19(1), and the Registrar‑General does not
            refuse the name under section 19(2).

 (5) In this section, “responsible person”, for a child, has the
meaning given by section 8(5).

Alteration of child’s name in register of births

 21.—(1) This section applies to a child whose name is entered in
the register of births at the time of registration of the child’s birth, but
does not affect any application for change of name under
section 15(3), 17(3) or 18(3).

 (2) A responsible person for a child mentioned in subsection (1)
may apply to the Registrar‑General to alter the name of the child
entered in the register of births.

 (3) The application by the responsible person (called in this section
the applicant) under subsection (2) must be made within one year
after the child’s birth.

 (4) The applicant must also provide to the Registrar‑General any
information or evidence the Registrar‑General requires that supports
the application, or verifies the accuracy of the matters contained in or
accompanying the application, within the time the Registrar‑General
requires.

 (5) The Registrar‑General may alter the child’s name in the register
of births if —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         31

       (a) the Registrar‑General is satisfied that the applicant has
            complied with the requirements relating to the application;

       (b) the altered name provided by the applicant for the child
            complies with section 19(1), and the Registrar‑General
            does not refuse the altered name under section 19(2);

       (c) the child’s name entered in the register has not been altered
            before under this section or section 11(1) of the repealed
            Act; and

       (d) the child is not deceased.

 (6) In this section, “responsible person”, for a child, has the
meaning given by section 8(5).

                                    PART 4

                                   DEATHS

                     Division 1 — Death in Singapore

Report of death in Singapore

 22.—(1) The death of every person who dies in Singapore must be
reported in accordance with this section if the death is not, or does not
appear to be, a reportable death.

 (2) The following persons are responsible for reporting a death
mentioned in subsection (1):

       (a) where the death occurs in a hospital — the hospital (or the
            person having general management and control of the
            hospital);

       (b) where the death occurs in any premises (other than in a
            hospital) —

               (i) every relative of the deceased person who is present
                   at the death; and

              (ii) every occupier of the premises who knows of the
                   death in the premises;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
32  NO. 17 OF 2021

       (c) where the death occurs in an aircraft, a vessel or a train
            (called in this section the conveyance) while the
            conveyance is in Singapore —

               (i) every relative of the deceased person who is in the
                   conveyance at the time and knows of the death; and

              (ii) the master of the conveyance;

       (d) where the death occurs in any other place —

               (i) every relative of the deceased person who knows of
                   the death;

              (ii) every person who is present at the death; and

             (iii) every person who takes charge of the body of the
                   deceased person.

 (3) A person responsible under subsection (2) for reporting a death
mentioned in subsection (1) (called in this section the responsible
person) must, as soon as practicable after the death, report the death to
a medical practitioner.

 (4) Where there is more than one responsible person in respect of a
death and any of the responsible persons complies with subsection (3)
in respect of the death, the duty of every other responsible person
under that subsection in respect of the death is discharged by that
compliance.

 (5) A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,500 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding one month or to both.

Duties of medical practitioner who receives report of death
under section 22(3)

 23.—(1) A medical practitioner who receives a report of a death
under section 22(3) must, as soon as practicable —

       (a) examine the body of the deceased person; and

       (b) ascertain relevant information about the deceased person’s
            medical history and the circumstances of the death.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         33

 (2) If the death is not, or does not appear to be, a reportable death,
the medical practitioner must provide the cause of death and the other
death particulars to the Registrar‑General within 24 hours after
complying with subsection (1).

 (3) A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

Registration of death in Singapore

 24. The Registrar‑General must register the death of a person in
Singapore, as soon as practicable —

       (a) where section 23(2) applies — after receiving from a
            medical practitioner mentioned in that provision the cause
            of death and the other death particulars;

       (b) where a pathologist or forensic pathologist examines the
            body of the deceased person — after receiving from the
            pathologist or forensic pathologist (as the case may be)
            such death particulars as the pathologist or forensic
            pathologist (as the case may be) is able to ascertain; or

       (c) where a Coroner’s certificate is issued for the death — after
            receiving the Coroner’s certificate.

Registration of reportable death in Singapore without
Coroner’s certificate

 25.—(1) Where the Registrar‑General is informed that a death has
occurred in Singapore but that the body of the deceased person is
destroyed, is not recoverable or cannot be located, the
Registrar‑General may register the death before a Coroner’s
certificate is issued for the death if the Registrar‑General is
satisfied, from the information and evidence made available to the
Registrar‑General, as to —

       (a) the occurrence of death in Singapore; and

       (b) the identity of the deceased person.

 (2) Where a reportable death in Singapore does not require a
Coroner’s certificate under the Coroners Act 2010, the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
34  NO. 17 OF 2021

Registrar‑General may register the death if the Registrar‑General is
satisfied, from the information and evidence made available to the
Registrar‑General, as to —

       (a) the occurrence of death in Singapore; and

       (b) the identity of the deceased person.

                 Division 2 — Death outside Singapore

Report of death in aircraft, vessel or train bound for Singapore

 26.—(1) The death of every person who dies in an aircraft, a vessel
or a train (called in this section the conveyance) outside, but bound
for, Singapore must be reported in accordance with this section if —

       (a) the death occurs —

               (i) in the case of an aircraft — during the flight of the
                   aircraft to an airport or any other place in Singapore;

              (ii) in the case of a vessel — during the voyage of the
                   vessel to a port or any other place in Singapore; or

             (iii) in the case of a train — during the passage of the train
                   to a station or any other place in Singapore; and

       (b) the body of the deceased person arrives in Singapore, and
            was not taken to any foreign country or territory during the
            period between the time of the death and the arrival of the
            body in Singapore.

 (2) The following persons are responsible for reporting a death
mentioned in subsection (1):

       (a) the master of the conveyance in which the body of the
            deceased person arrives in Singapore;

       (b) every relative of the deceased person who knows of the
            death and arrives in Singapore with the body of the
            deceased person in the conveyance mentioned in
            paragraph (a).

 (3) A person responsible under subsection (2) for reporting a death
(called in this section the responsible person) must report the death to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         35

the police as soon as practicable after the body of the deceased person
arrives in Singapore.

 (4) Where there is more than one responsible person in respect of a
death and any of the responsible persons complies with subsection (3)
in respect of the death, the duty of every other responsible person
under that subsection in respect of the death is discharged by that
compliance.

 (5) A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,500 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding one month or to both.

Registration of death in conveyance reported under section 26

 27.—(1) A relative of a deceased person whose death is required to
be and is reported under section 26 may apply to the
Registrar‑General for the death to be registered.

 (2) The application by the relative (called in this section the
applicant) under subsection (1) must —

       (a) be made within 3 months after the death;

       (b) be accompanied by a document issued by a medical
            practitioner (including a pathologist) in Singapore
            certifying the cause of death; and

       (c) contain the other death particulars for the deceased person.

 (3) The applicant must also provide to the Registrar‑General any
information or evidence the Registrar‑General requires that supports
the application, or verifies the accuracy of the matters contained in or
accompanying the application, within the time the Registrar‑General
requires.

 (4) The Registrar‑General may register the death if the
Registrar‑General is satisfied that —

       (a) the applicant has complied with the requirements relating
            to the application;

       (b) there is no uncertainty or dispute as to the death particulars
            or registration of the death in Singapore; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
36  NO. 17 OF 2021

       (c) the death is not registered under any corresponding law of
            a foreign country or territory.

Registration of death of Singapore citizen or permanent
resident outside Singapore

 28.—(1) Where a Singapore citizen or permanent resident dies
outside Singapore and the body of the deceased person is brought to
Singapore, a relative of the deceased person may apply to the
Registrar‑General for the death to be registered.

 (2) The application by the relative (called in this section the
applicant) under subsection (1) must —

       (a) be made within 3 months after the death;

       (b) be accompanied by a document issued by a medical
            practitioner (including a pathologist), whether in
            Singapore or elsewhere, certifying the cause of death; and

       (c) contain the other death particulars for the deceased person.

 (3) The applicant must also provide to the Registrar‑General any
information or evidence the Registrar‑General requires that supports
the application, or verifies the accuracy of the matters contained in or
accompanying the application, within the time the Registrar‑General
requires.

 (4) The Registrar‑General may register the death if the
Registrar‑General is satisfied that —

       (a) the applicant has complied with the requirements relating
            to the application;

       (b) there is no uncertainty or dispute as to the death particulars
            or registration of the death in Singapore; and

       (c) the death is not registered under any corresponding law of
            a foreign country or territory.

 (5) This section does not apply to a death that is required to be
reported under section 26.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         37

 (6) In subsection (2)(b), “medical practitioner” includes any person
who is authorised to practise as a medical practitioner in a foreign
country or territory under the law of that country or territory.

Registration of death under Coroner’s certificate

 29. If a Coroner’s certificate is issued for a death that occurs outside
Singapore (including a death mentioned in section 26 or 28), the
Registrar‑General must register the death as soon as practicable after
receiving the Coroner’s certificate.

                       Division 3 — Related matters

Coroner’s certificate issued after death registration

 30. If the Registrar‑General receives a Coroner’s certificate for a
death after the death has been registered, the Registrar‑General must,
as soon as practicable after receiving the Coroner’s certificate —

       (a) where the death particulars stated in the Coroner’s
            certificate are not entered in the register of deaths —
            enter those death particulars in the register; and

       (b) where the death particulars stated in the Coroner’s
            certificate differ from the death particulars entered in the
            register — alter the record of the death in the register in
            accordance with the Coroner’s certificate.

Duty to report death under other written law not affected

 31. This Part does not affect the duty of any person to report a death
under any other written law.

                                    PART 5
                                STILLBIRTHS
                   Division 1 — Stillbirth in Singapore
Report of stillbirth in Singapore
 32.—(1) The birth of every stillborn child in Singapore must be
reported in accordance with this section.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
38  NO. 17 OF 2021

 (2) The following persons are responsible for reporting the birth of
a stillborn child in Singapore:

       (a) where the stillbirth occurs in a hospital — the hospital (or
            the person having general management and control of the
            hospital);

       (b) where the stillbirth occurs in any premises (other than in a
            hospital) —

               (i) every relative of the stillborn child who is present at
                   the stillbirth; and

              (ii) every occupier of the premises who knows of the
                   stillbirth in the premises;

       (c) where the stillbirth occurs in an aircraft, a vessel or a train
            (called in this section the conveyance) while the
            conveyance is in Singapore —

               (i) every relative of the stillborn child who is in the
                   conveyance at the time and knows of the stillbirth;
                   and

              (ii) the master of the conveyance;

       (d) where the stillbirth occurs in any other place —

               (i) every relative of the stillborn child who knows of the
                   stillbirth;

              (ii) every person who is present at the stillbirth; and

             (iii) every person who takes charge of the body of the
                   stillborn child.

 (3) A person responsible under subsection (2) for reporting a
stillbirth (called in this section the responsible person) must, as soon
as practicable after the stillbirth, report the stillbirth to a medical
practitioner.

 (4) Where there is more than one responsible person in respect of a
stillbirth and any of the responsible persons complies with
subsection (3) in respect of the stillbirth, the duty of every other
responsible person under that subsection in respect of the stillbirth is
discharged by that compliance.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         39

 (5) A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,500 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding one month or to both.

Duties of medical practitioner who receives report of stillbirth
under section 32(3)

 33.—(1) A medical practitioner who receives a report of a stillbirth
under section 32(3) must —

       (a) examine the body of the child as soon as practicable to
            ascertain whether the child was stillborn; and

       (b) where the medical practitioner is satisfied that the child
            was stillborn, provide the cause of death of the stillborn
            child and the other stillbirth particulars to the
            Registrar‑General, within 24 hours after complying with
            paragraph (a).

 (2) A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1)(b) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

Registration of stillbirth in Singapore

 34. The Registrar‑General must register the birth of a stillborn child
in Singapore, as soon as practicable after receiving the cause of death
and the other stillbirth particulars from a medical practitioner under
section 33.

     Division 2 — Stillbirth in conveyance bound for Singapore

Report of stillbirth in aircraft, vessel or train bound for
Singapore

 35.—(1) The birth of every stillborn child in an aircraft, a vessel or
a train (called in this section the conveyance) outside, but bound for,
Singapore must be reported in accordance with this section if —

       (a) the stillbirth occurs —

               (i) in the case of an aircraft — during the flight of the
                   aircraft to an airport or any other place in Singapore;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
40  NO. 17 OF 2021

              (ii) in the case of a vessel — during the voyage of the
                   vessel to a port or any other place in Singapore; or

             (iii) in the case of a train — during the passage of the train
                   to a station or any other place in Singapore; and

       (b) the body of the stillborn child arrives in Singapore, and was
            not taken to any foreign country or territory during the
            period between the time of the stillbirth and the arrival of
            the body in Singapore.

 (2) The following persons are responsible for reporting a stillbirth
mentioned in subsection (1):

       (a) the master of the conveyance in which the body of the
            stillborn child arrives in Singapore;

       (b) every relative of the stillborn child who knows of the
            stillbirth and arrives in Singapore with the body of the
            stillborn child in the conveyance mentioned in
            paragraph (a).

 (3) A person responsible under subsection (2) for reporting a
stillbirth (called in this section the responsible person) must report the
stillbirth to the police as soon as practicable after the body of the
stillborn child arrives in Singapore.

 (4) Where there is more than one responsible person in respect of a
stillbirth and any of the responsible persons complies with
subsection (3) in respect of the stillbirth, the duty of every other
responsible person under that subsection in respect of the stillbirth is
discharged by that compliance.

 (5) A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,500 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding one month or to both.

Registration of stillbirth in conveyance reported under
section 35

 36.—(1) A parent of a stillborn child whose stillbirth is required to
be and is reported under section 35 may apply to the
Registrar‑General for the stillbirth to be registered.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         41

 (2) The application by the parent (called in this section the
applicant) under subsection (1) must —

       (a) be made within 3 months after the stillbirth;

       (b) be accompanied by a document issued by a medical
            practitioner in Singapore certifying the cause of death of
            the stillborn child; and

       (c) contain the other stillbirth particulars for the stillborn child.

 (3) The applicant must also provide to the Registrar‑General any
information or evidence the Registrar‑General requires that supports
the application, or verifies the accuracy of the matters contained in or
accompanying the application, within the time the Registrar‑General
requires.

 (4) The Registrar‑General may register the stillbirth if the
Registrar‑General is satisfied that —

       (a) the applicant has complied with the requirements relating
            to the application;

       (b) there is no uncertainty or dispute as to the stillbirth
            particulars or registration of the stillbirth in Singapore; and

       (c) the stillbirth is not registered under any corresponding law
            of a foreign country or territory.

                                    PART 6
               REGISTERS AND RELATED MATTERS
Registers
 37.—(1) The Registrar‑General must provide and maintain, in the
form and manner that the Registrar‑General thinks fit, the following
registers:
       (a) a register of births;
       (b) a register of deaths;
       (c) a register of stillbirths.
 (2) The registers are not open to inspection by the public.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
42  NO. 17 OF 2021

Alteration of record in register

 38.—(1) Any record of a registered event in a register must not be
altered except as authorised by or under this Act.

 (2) A reference in this section to the alteration of a record of a
registered event in a register includes a reference to the recording in
the register of the particulars of the registered event that had been
omitted from the register at the time of registration of the registered
event.

Correction of clerical error in record in register

 39.—(1) The Registrar‑General may correct any clerical error in
any record in a register that the Registrar‑General discovers or is
informed of.

 (2) A person informing the Registrar‑General of any clerical error
in any record in a register must do so in the form and manner that the
Registrar‑General requires.

 (3) The correction of an error under this section may be made in the
form and manner that the Registrar‑General thinks fit.

Correction of error of fact or substance in record in register

 40.—(1) The Registrar‑General may correct an error of fact or
substance in any record in the register of deaths —

       (a) in the case where the death registration is based on death
            particulars submitted by a medical practitioner under
            section 23(2) — subject to subsection (2), after receiving
            from that medical practitioner or any other medical
            practitioner information (given in the form and manner
            required by the Registrar‑General) that specifies the death
            particulars to be corrected in the record; or

       (b) in any case —

               (i) after receiving a Coroner’s certificate or an amended
                   Coroner’s certificate that contains death particulars
                   that differ from those in the record; or

              (ii) after receiving a request from any person.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         43

 (2) Subsection (1)(a) does not apply to a death if a Coroner’s
certificate is issued for the death after the death particulars are
submitted by a medical practitioner under section 23(2).

 (3) The Registrar‑General may correct an error of fact or substance
in any record in the register of births or register of stillbirths after
receiving a request from any person.

 (4) A request mentioned in subsection (1)(b)(ii) or (3) must contain
and be accompanied by the information and evidence required by the
Registrar‑General.

 (5) A person who makes a request mentioned in
subsection (1)(b)(ii) or (3) must also provide to the
Registrar‑General any information or evidence the
Registrar‑General requires that supports the request, or verifies the
accuracy of the matters contained in or accompanying the request,
within the time the Registrar‑General requires.

 (6) Despite subsections (1) and (3), the Registrar‑General may, on
the Registrar‑General’s own volition, correct any error of fact or
substance in any record in a register that the Registrar‑General
discovers or is informed of.

 (7) The correction of an error under this section may be made in the
form and manner that the Registrar‑General thinks fit.

Cancellation of registration

 41. The Registrar‑General may cancel the registration of any birth,
death or stillbirth if the Registrar‑General is satisfied that the
registration has been —

       (a) obtained by means of fraud, false representation or the
            concealment of any material fact; or

       (b) made by mistake.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
44  NO. 17 OF 2021

                                    PART 7

            INFORMATION AND RELATED MATTERS

Power to obtain information

 42.—(1) The Registrar‑General may, by written notice, require any
person to provide, within the time specified in the notice, any
information that the Registrar‑General requires for the purpose of —

       (a) ascertaining whether a registrable event has occurred, or
            the particulars of a registrable event or registered event;

       (b) ascertaining whether a provision of this Act or the repealed
            Act has been complied with; or

       (c) the performance of the Registrar‑General’s functions under
            this Act or any other written law.

 (2) A person who is given a written notice under subsection (1)
must comply with the notice.

 (3) A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,500 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding one month or to both.

Form and manner of information, etc.

 43.—(1) Any information, report, particulars or evidence required
to be provided to the Registrar‑General, and any application or
request to be made to the Registrar‑General, by or under any
provision of this Act, or any other written law, must be provided or
made in the form and manner that the Registrar‑General requires.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Registrar‑General may
require any thing mentioned in that subsection to be provided or made
electronically (including by using any electronic service provided or
specified by the Registrar‑General for such purpose).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         45

                                    PART 8

             INVESTIGATIONS, GENERAL OFFENCES
                       AND RELATED MATTERS

Taking possession of false or invalid documents

 44. The Registrar‑General may take possession of any document
that is produced in connection with any of the following if the
Registrar‑General reasonably suspects that the document is false or
invalid:

       (a) reporting of a birth to the Registrar‑General;

       (b) registration of a birth, death or stillbirth;

       (c) alteration of any particulars recorded, or the recording of
            any omitted particulars, in a register.

Powers of search, etc.

 45.—(1) If an authorised registration officer reasonably suspects
that any evidence of the commission of an offence under this Act is
likely to be found in any premises, or in any vehicle, aircraft, vessel or
train (called in this section the conveyance), or on any person, the
officer may, without warrant and with such assistance as the officer
thinks necessary —

       (a) enter and search the premises;

       (b) stop, board and search the conveyance (whether in a public
            or private place); or

       (c) stop and search the person (whether in a public or private
            place),

as the case may be.

 (2) An authorised registration officer exercising any power under
subsection (1) may, if the circumstances so warrant and with such
assistance as the officer thinks necessary —

       (a) break open any door, window, lock, fastener, compartment,
            box, container or other thing; or

       (b) remove by force any obstruction to the exercise of that
            power.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
46  NO. 17 OF 2021

 (3) An authorised registration officer carrying out a search under
subsection (1) may take possession or make copies of any document
found during the search that the officer reasonably believes to be
connected to the commission of an offence under this Act.

 (4) A woman must not be searched except by a woman.

 (5) A person in charge of a conveyance who, without reasonable
excuse, does not stop the conveyance when required to do so by an
authorised registration officer under subsection (1)(b) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,500 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both.

Powers of investigation

 46.—(1) For the purpose of investigating any offence or suspected
offence under this Act, an authorised registration officer may do all or
any of the following:

       (a) require, by written notice, any person, whom the
            authorised registration officer reasonably believes has
            any information, in the person’s custody or control, that
            is relevant to the investigation, to provide that information,
            within the time and in the manner specified in the notice;

       (b) where the information provided by the person mentioned
            in paragraph (a) is in the form of a document — retain the
            document or make, or cause to be made, without payment,
            any copy of or extract from the document;

       (c) require, by written notice, the attendance before the
            authorised registration officer of any person in Singapore
            who appears to be acquainted with the facts or
            circumstances of the matter;

       (d) examine orally any person who appears to be acquainted
            with the facts or circumstances of the matter —

               (i) whether before or after that person or anyone else is
                   charged with an offence in connection with the
                   matter; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         47

              (ii) whether or not that person is to be called as a witness
                   in any inquiry, trial or other proceedings in
                   connection with the matter.

 (2) A person examined under subsection (1)(d) is bound to state
truly the facts and circumstances with which the person is acquainted
concerning the matter except that the person need not say anything
that might expose the person to a criminal charge, penalty or
forfeiture.

 (3) A statement made by a person examined under subsection (1)(d)
must —

       (a) be reduced to writing;

       (b) be read over to the person;

       (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
            a language that the person understands; and

       (d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the person.

 (4) If any person fails to attend as required by a written notice under
subsection (1)(c), the authorised registration officer may report the
failure to a Magistrate who may then issue a warrant ordering the
person to comply with the notice.

 (5) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
any written notice under subsection (1)(a) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,500 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both.

Authorised registration officer to produce evidence of identity
and authority

 47.—(1) When exercising any power under this Part, an authorised
registration officer must, if so required by any person affected by the
exercise of that power, produce to that person evidence of the
officer’s identity and authority to exercise that power.

 (2) Despite anything in or under this Act, it is not an offence for any
person to refuse to comply with any request or notice made or given

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
48  NO. 17 OF 2021

by an authorised registration officer if the officer does not comply
with subsection (1).

False or misleading statement or information

 48. A person who makes any statement, or provides any
information, to the Registrar‑General or an authorised registration
officer under this Act, that is false or misleading in a material
particular —

       (a) knowing it to be false or misleading in a material
            particular; or

       (b) being reckless as to whether it is false or misleading in a
            material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
10 years or to both.

Offences relating to register

 49.—(1) A person who, without lawful authority —

       (a) makes, alters or deletes, or permits to be made, altered or
            deleted, any record (or any part of it) in a register;

       (b) obtains, or provides any person, access to a register (or any
            part of it); or

       (c) interferes with a register (or any part of it), or permits a
            register (or any part of it) to be interfered with, in any other
            way,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) A person who wilfully destroys or defaces, or permits to be
destroyed or defaced, a register (or any part of it) shall be guilty of an
offence.

 (3) A public officer or registration officer who publishes or
communicates to any person any information contained in a
register shall be guilty of an offence unless such publication or
communication —

       (a) is authorised by or under this Act;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         49

       (b) is in the public interest and authorised by the
            Registrar‑General; or

       (c) is for the purpose of investigations into an offence under
            this Act or any other written law, or proceedings in respect
            of the offence.

 (4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1), (2) or
(3) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 10 years or to both.

Offences relating to certificates or extracts

 50. A person who —

       (a) forges a document, purporting to be a birth certificate,
            death certificate or stillbirth certificate, or an extract from
            any record in a register;

       (b) alters, or otherwise tampers with, a birth certificate, death
            certificate or stillbirth certificate, or an extract from any
            record in a register; or

       (c) knowingly obtains, possesses or uses a forged, altered or
            tampered certificate or extract mentioned in paragraph (a)
            or (b),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
10 years or to both.

Extended criminal jurisdiction for possessing false certificate,
etc.

 50A.—(1) Any conduct engaged in by a person in a Singapore
designated area of a cross-border railway that, if engaged in within
Singapore, would constitute an offence under section 50(c) is to be
treated for the purposes of that provision as if the person engaged in
that conduct in Singapore.

 (2) A person who engaged in any conduct mentioned in
subsection (1) may be tried and punished for that conduct by a
court in Singapore.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
50  NO. 17 OF 2021

 (3) To be clear, it does not matter whether the conduct engaged in
constitutes an offence under the laws of Malaysia, and this section
does not affect sections 39 and 40 of the Cross-Border Railways
(Border Control Co-location) Act 2026.

 (4) Section 44 extends to apply to and in relation to any document
that is produced by a person within a Singapore designated area of a
cross-border railway, with respect to an offence mentioned in
subsection (1), subject to the following modifications:

       (a) any reference to the Registrar-General is a reference only
            to a Registrar, a Supervising Deputy Registrar, an Assistant
            Registrar or a registration officer who —

               (i) is delegated the power or function of the Registrar-
                   General under that section; and

              (ii) is a Singapore preclearance officer;

       (b) any reference to taking possession of any document from
            any person includes a reference to transferring custody of
            the document taken to a Malaysian border protection
            service officer without delay.

 (5) In this section, “cross-border railway”, “Malaysian border
protection service officer”, “Singapore designated area” and
“Singapore preclearance officer” have the meanings given by
section 3(1) of the Cross-Border Railways (Border Control Co-
location) Act 2026.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

Obstruction

 51.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person, without
reasonable excuse, obstructs or hinders the Registrar‑General or an
authorised registration officer in the performance of any function or
exercise of any power under this Act or any other written law.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,500 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         51

Offences by corporations

 52.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                   type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                   take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                   commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
52  NO. 17 OF 2021

offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) does not affect the liability of a
corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether or not
the corporation is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership;

      “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
         partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the corporation, and includes —

              (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

              (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
                   members, any of those members as if the member
                   were a director of the corporation;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 53.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         53

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership (as the
case may be) had that state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership in
                   relation to the commission of the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the unincorporated
                   association or partnership; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the unincorporated association or
                   partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                   be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                   reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                   that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
54  NO. 17 OF 2021

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) does not affect the liability of an
unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under this
Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
         a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
         member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
         and includes —

              (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
                   president, secretary or member of a committee of the
                   unincorporated association; and

              (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

      “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

Jurisdiction of courts

 54. Despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, a District Court or a
Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act
and has power to impose the full punishment for any such offence.

Composition of offences

 55.—(1) The Registrar‑General may compound any offence under
this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         55

from a person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence
a sum not exceeding $500.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

                                    PART 9

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Police officer’s functions or powers under other written law

 56. To avoid doubt, this Act does not affect a police officer’s
functions or powers under the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 or any
other written law.

Authorisation to provide information, etc., on behalf of person

 57. Any person who is unable, by reason of illness or other
sufficient cause, to make a report, or provide any particulars,
information or evidence, required by or under this Act may
authorise another person to make the report, or provide the
particulars, information or evidence, on behalf of the
firstmentioned person.

Payments into Consolidated Fund

 58. All fees, charges and composition sums collected under this Act
must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

Service of documents

 59.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
            if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
            address or business address;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
56  NO. 17 OF 2021

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual; or

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s email address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer of the
            partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the partnership’s business address;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
            partnership’s business address; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s email address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
            body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
            limited liability partnership’s manager;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the body corporate’s or unincorporated association’s
            registered office or principal office in Singapore;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the body
            corporate’s or unincorporated association’s registered
            office or principal office in Singapore; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the body corporate’s or
            unincorporated association’s email address.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         57

 (5) Service of a document under this section takes effect —

       (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
            successful transmission is received, on the day of
            transmission;

       (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
            becomes capable of being retrieved by the person; and

       (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
            after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
            undelivered).

 (6) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email may be effected only with the person’s prior consent to service
in that way.

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

 (8) In this section —

      “business address” means —

              (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
                   last known place of business in Singapore; or

              (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
                   liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
                   last known place of business in Singapore;

      “email address” means the last email address given by the
         addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
         document as the email address for the service of documents
         under this Act;

      “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
         place of residence in Singapore.

Exemption

 60. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person
or class of persons, or exclude any event or class of events, from all or
any of the provisions of this Act, either generally or in a particular
case and subject to any condition the Minister specifies.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
58  NO. 17 OF 2021

Regulations

 61.—(1) The Minister may make regulations necessary or
convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this
Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may make
regulations for any of the following:

       (a) matters relating to registration of births, deaths and
            stillbirths, including reporting and registration
            requirements and procedures, particulars to be recorded
            in registers, recording of particulars in registers after
            registration, and alteration of records in registers;

       (b) matters relating to certificates for registered events,
            including issue, collection, receipt, custody, use,
            surrender, cancellation and replacement of certificates;

       (c) matters relating to extracts from records in registers,
            including applications for, and issue, collection, receipt,
            custody, use and surrender of, extracts;

       (d) in the case of re‑registration of births of adopted
            children — applications for, and issue, collection,
            receipt, custody, use and surrender of, extracts from or
            copies of former records in the register of births superseded
            by such re‑registration;

       (e) in the case of records in registers containing entries made
            in a language other than English, or entries made during the
            Japanese occupation of Singapore — the
            Registrar‑General’s power to translate or substitute such
            entries when issuing extracts from or copies of (mentioned
            in paragraph (c) or (d)) such records;

        (f) appeals that may be made to the Minister (or any other
            specified person) from specified decisions of the
            Registrar‑General under this Act, and the powers,
            practice and procedures in relation to such appeals;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         59

       (g) the fees to be paid in respect of any matter under or in
            connection with the administration of this Act, and the
            waiver, reduction or refund of fees charged.

 (3) Regulations made under this section may provide that a
contravention of any provision of the regulations shall be an
offence punishable with a fine not exceeding $3,000 or with
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or with both.

Repeal

 62. The Registration of Births and Deaths Act (Cap. 267) is
repealed.

Saving and transitional provisions

 63.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, this Act extends to
and applies in respect of —

       (a) a birth, death or stillbirth that is registered under the
            repealed Act, as if the birth, death or stillbirth (as the case
            may be) were registered under this Act;

       (b) a birth that is registered or re‑registered under the Adoption
            of Children Act 1939, or re‑registered under the
            Legitimacy Act 1934, as if the birth were registered or
            re‑registered (as the case may be) under this Act; and

       (c) a birth, death or stillbirth that occurs before the appointed
            date and is required to be registered under the repealed Act
            but is not so registered before the appointed date.

 (2) If the birth of a child in Singapore before the appointed date is
not registered under the repealed Act before that date, the child’s birth
must be registered under, and in accordance with, this Act, and (to
avoid doubt) section 8 applies to a responsible person mentioned in
that section for the child.

 (3) If an adoption order is made for a child under the Adoption of
Children Act 1939 before the appointed date, but the child’s birth is
not registered or re‑registered (as the case may be) under that Act
before that date, the child’s birth must be registered or re‑registered
(as the case may be) under, and in accordance with, this Act.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
60  NO. 17 OF 2021

 (4) Sections 7 and 10 only apply to births that occur on or after the
appointed date.

 (5) If a person dies before the appointed date and the death is
required to be registered under the repealed Act but is not so
registered before that date —

       (a) in the case where the cause of death is certified by a
            medical practitioner before that date — the death must be
            registered under, and in accordance with, the repealed Act
            as if this Act had not been enacted; or

       (b) in any other case — the death must be registered under, and
            in accordance with, this Act, and section 23 applies to a
            medical practitioner who receives a report of the death
            under the repealed Act as if the report were received under
            section 22(3).

 (6) Sections 22 and 26 only apply to deaths that occur on or after the
appointed date.

 (7) Section 28 applies to a death that occurs before, on or after the
appointed date.

 (8) If a child is stillborn in Singapore before the appointed date but
the stillbirth is not registered under the repealed Act before that
date —

       (a) in the case where a certificate mentioned in section 14 of
            the repealed Act is issued for the stillbirth before the
            appointed date by a medical practitioner or a registered
            midwife mentioned in that section — the stillbirth must be
            registered under, and in accordance with, the repealed Act
            as if this Act had not been enacted; or

       (b) in any other case — the stillbirth must be registered under,
            and in accordance with, this Act, and section 33 applies to a
            medical practitioner who receives a report of the stillbirth
            under the repealed Act as if the report were received under
            section 32(3).

 (9) Sections 32 and 35 only apply to stillbirths that occur on or after
the appointed date.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         61

 (10) Every register provided under the repealed Act continues
under this Act as if the register were provided under this Act.

 (11) An application made under section 25 of the repealed Act that
is pending immediately before the appointed date is to be dealt with
under, and in accordance with, the repealed Act as if this Act had not
been enacted.

 (12) An appeal made under section 25 of the repealed Act that is
pending immediately before the appointed date is to be dealt with
under, and in accordance with, the repealed Act as if this Act had not
been enacted.

 (13) Any written law or document that refers to the repealed Act or
a provision of the repealed Act is to be construed, as far as it is
necessary to preserve the effect of the written law or document, as
referring to or including a reference to this Act or the corresponding
provision of this Act, as the case may be.

 (14) A police officer who is appointed as a deputy registrar under
the repealed Act continues in that appointment for the purposes of
registration of deaths mentioned in subsection (5)(a), as if this Act
had not been enacted, until the appointment is revoked by the
Registrar‑General.

 (15) For a period of 2 years after the appointed date, the Minister
may, by regulations, prescribe any additional provision of a saving or
transitional nature consequent on the enactment of any provision of
this Act that the Minister considers necessary or expedient.

 (16) In this section, “appointed date” means the date of
commencement of this section.

                                   PART 10
     CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS
Amendment of Adoption of Children Act 1939
 64. The Adoption of Children Act 1939 is amended —

       (a) by deleting subsection (1) of section 12 and substituting the
            following subsection:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
62  NO. 17 OF 2021

                    “(1) If an adoption order is made, the Registrar of
                  the court that makes the adoption order must, as soon
                  as practicable, provide to the Registrar‑General of
                  Births and Deaths a copy of the adoption order and the
                  particulars (as far as they are known to the court) that
                  the Registrar‑General requires for the purposes of
                  registration or re‑registration of the adopted child’s
                  birth under the Registration of Births and Deaths
                  Act 2021.”;

       (b) by deleting the word “infant’s” in section 12(2)(a) and
            substituting the words “adopted child’s”;

       (c) by deleting the word “infant” in section 12(2)(b) and
            substituting the words “adopted child”;

       (d) by deleting subsections (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8) and (9) of
            section 12;

       (e) by deleting the section heading of section 12 and
            substituting the following section heading:

                  “Matters relating to registration or
                  re‑registration of birth of adopted child”; and

        (f) by repealing the Schedule.

Amendment of Infectious Diseases Act 1976

 65. Section 46(2) of the Infectious Diseases Act 1976 is amended
by deleting the words “Registrar of Births and Deaths” and
substituting the words “Registrar‑General of Births and Deaths”.

Amendment of Legitimacy Act 1934

 66. The Legitimacy Act 1934 is amended —

       (a) by deleting subsection (4) of section 3; and

       (b) by repealing the Schedule.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS AND DEATHS                         63

Amendment of Merchant Shipping Act 1995

 67. Section 91 of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “Registrar of Births and Deaths” in
            subsection (2) and substituting the words
            “Registrar‑General of Births and Deaths”; and

       (b) by deleting subsections (3) and (4).

Amendment of National Registration Act 1965

 68. The National Registration Act 1965 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the word “gender” in sections 4(2)(a) and
            6A(2)(b) and substituting in each case the word “sex”; and

       (b) by deleting subsection (3) of section 6A and substituting
            the following subsection:

                    “(3) In subsection (1)(b), “permitted character” has
                  the meaning given by section 19(3) of the
                  Registration of Births and Deaths Act 2021.”.

Amendment of Status of Children (Assisted Reproduction
Technology) Act 2013

 69. Section 12 of the Status of Children (Assisted Reproduction
Technology) Act 2013 is repealed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
