THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
              PHARMACISTS REGISTRATION
                               ACT 2007

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                                                            2020 Ed.

Pharmacists Registration
         Act 2007

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                        PART 2

                    SINGAPORE PHARMACY COUNCIL

 3. Establishment and incorporation of Singapore Pharmacy
         Council

 4. Constitution of Council
 5. Functions of Council
 6. President of Council
 7. Disqualifications from membership of Council
 8. Filling of vacancies
 9. Meetings and quorum of Council
10. Appointment of executive secretary and other employees
11. Appointment of committees
12. [Repealed]
13. [Repealed]

                                        PART 3

                     REGISTRATION OF PHARMACISTS

14. Registrar of Council
15. Registers
16. Full registration
17. Conditional registration
18. Registration of specialists
19. Temporary registration
20. Evidence of qualification and entry of additional qualifications

                                                      1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                     2

Section   Application for registration
          Certificate of registration
   21.    Practising certificate
   22.    Amendment of appropriate register
   23.    Removal of name from appropriate register
   24.    Restoration of names removed under section 24 or 25
   25.    Certificate of Registrar as evidence
   26.
   27.

                                        PART 4

                          PRACTICE OF PHARMACY

28. Unauthorised person acting as pharmacist
29. Liability of employer, etc., for practice of pharmacy in

         contravention of section 28
30. Liability of registered pharmacist for allowing another to act in

         contravention of section 28, etc.
31. Suspended persons not to practise pharmacy during period of

         suspension
32. False assumption of title of specialist
33. Fraudulent registration, etc.
34. Pharmacist to use only qualifications entered in register and

         approved title, etc.
35. General penalty

                                        PART 5
                  SPECIALISTS ACCREDITATION BOARD

36. Establishment of Specialists Accreditation Board
37. Functions of Specialists Accreditation Board

                                        PART 6

                 DISCIPLINARY AND HEALTH INQUIRIES

38. Appointment of Complaints Panel
39. Complaints against registered pharmacists
40. Inquiry by Complaints Committee
41. Findings of Complaints Committee
42. Disciplinary Committee
43. Proceedings of Disciplinary Committee
44. Reference and transfer of cases to Health Committee
45. Findings of Disciplinary Committee

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
         Pharmacists Registration

3        Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

Section  Orders of Disciplinary Committee
   46.   Appeal against order by Disciplinary Committee
   47.   Restoration of names to appropriate register
   48.   Report of breach
   49.   Health Committee
   50.   Unfitness to practise through illness, etc.
   51.   Restoration of names removed on recommendation of Health
   52.   Committee
         Interim Orders Committee
   53.   Interim orders
   54.   Review of interim orders
   55.   Interim Orders Committee may revoke, vary or replace interim
   56.   order
         Right of hearing
   57.   Application to General Division of High Court
   58.   Duration of interim orders
   59.   Person suspended under interim suspension order not regarded
   60.   as registered
         Council may appoint legal counsel
   61.   Recovery of penalties and costs
   62.

                                           PART 7

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   63. Application of funds of Council
   64. Fees payable to members of Council and members of

            committees
   65. Inspectors
   66. Assessors to Council
   67. Protection against liability
   68. Jurisdiction of court
   69. Composition of offences
   70. Exemption in respect of pharmacy training
   71. General exemption
   72. Service of documents
   73. Amendment of Schedule
   74. Regulations
   75. Saving and transitional provisions

            The Schedule — Acts or activities constituting
                                  “practice of pharmacy”

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  4

An Act to establish the Singapore Pharmacy Council, to provide for
  the registration of pharmacists and for matters connected therewith.

                                    [1 September 2008]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY

Short title
 1. This Act is the Pharmacists Registration Act 2007.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “appropriate register” means any of the registers mentioned in
         section 15(1), as appropriate;
      “Board” means the Specialists Accreditation Board established
         under section 36;
      “Chief Pharmacist” means the Chief Pharmacist of the Ministry
         of Health;
      “Council” means the Singapore Pharmacy Council established
         under section 3;
      “practice of pharmacy” means any of the acts or activities
         specified in the Schedule;
      “practising certificate” means a practising certificate granted
         under section 23;
      “president” means the president of the Council;

      “registered pharmacist” means a person who is registered as a
         pharmacist under this Act;

      “Registrar” means the Registrar of the Council;
      “Singapore degree” means a degree or diploma in pharmacy

         conferred by —
              (a) the King Edward VII College of Medicine,
                   Singapore;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
   Pharmacists Registration

5  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

   (b) the University of Malaya, Singapore;

   (c) the University of Singapore;

   (d) the National University of Singapore; or

   (e) any other tertiary institution in Singapore which the
       Minister may, by notification in the Gazette,
       prescribe;

   “unauthorised person” means —

   (a) a person who is not a registered pharmacist; or

   (b) a registered pharmacist who does not have a valid
        practising certificate,

   and who has not been exempted under section 70 or 71.

                                    PART 2

                SINGAPORE PHARMACY COUNCIL

Establishment and incorporation of Singapore Pharmacy
Council

 3. A body called the Singapore Pharmacy Council is established,
which is a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common
seal and is by that name capable of —

       (a) suing and being sued;

       (b) acquiring, owning, holding and developing or disposing of
            property, both movable and immovable; and

       (c) doing and performing any other acts or things that bodies
            corporate may by law do and perform.

Constitution of Council

 4.—(1) Subject to section 7, the Council consists of the following
members:

       (a) 9 registered pharmacists each of whom is appointed by the
            Minister;

       (b) the Chief Pharmacist;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  6

          (c) the Head of the Department of Pharmacy of the National
              University of Singapore or a member of the Department
              who is a registered pharmacist designated by the Head.

 (2) Subject to section 7, the members appointed under
subsection (1)(a) hold office for a term of 3 years and are eligible
for re-appointment.

 (3) The Minister may, at any time, revoke the appointment of any
member appointed under subsection (1)(a) without giving any
reason.

Functions of Council

 5. The functions of the Council are —

       (a) to keep and maintain registers of registered pharmacists;

       (b) to approve or reject applications for registration under this
            Act or to approve any of those applications subject to any
            restrictions the Council may think fit;

       (c) to issue certificates of registration and practising
            certificates to registered pharmacists;

       (d) to make recommendations to the appropriate authorities on
            the courses of instructions and examinations leading to a
            Singapore degree;

       (e) to prescribe and implement measures, guidelines and
            standards for the training of persons seeking registration
            as pharmacists under this Act;

        (f) to make recommendations to the appropriate authorities for
            the training and education of registered pharmacists;

       (g) to determine and regulate the conduct and ethics of
            registered pharmacists; and

       (h) generally to do all such acts and matters and things as are
            necessary to be carried out under this Act.

President of Council

 6.—(1) The Minister must appoint one of the Council members to
be the president of the Council.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
   Pharmacists Registration

7  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

 (2) The president serves for such term as the Minister may specify
and is eligible for re‑appointment.

 (3) The president presides at any meeting of the Council and, in the
president’s temporary absence, the Council members present must
elect from among themselves one Council member to preside over the
meeting.

Disqualifications from membership of Council

 7. A person must not be appointed or continue to hold office as a
Council member if the person —

       (a) is not a citizen or a permanent resident of Singapore;

       (b) is an undischarged bankrupt;

       (c) has been convicted in Singapore or elsewhere of any
            offence involving fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude; or

       (d) is totally or partially incapacitated by a mental or physical
            disability.

Filling of vacancies

 8.—(1) The office of a Council member becomes vacant if the
member —

       (a) dies;

       (b) resigns his or her office;

       (c) becomes subject to any of the disqualifications specified in
            section 7; or

       (d) has his or her appointment revoked before the expiry of the
            term for which the member has been appointed.

 (2) The Minister may remove from office any Council member who
is absent without leave of the Council from 3 consecutive meetings
of —

       (a) the Council; or

       (b) any committee appointed by the Council of which he or she
            is a member.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  8

 (3) Any question as to whether a person has ceased to be a Council
member must be determined by the Minister whose decision is final.

 (4) If any vacancy arises among the Council members, the Minister
may appoint a person to fill the vacancy in the manner in which the
appointment to the vacant office was made, and that person holds
office for as long as the Council member in whose place that person
was appointed would have held office.

 (5) No act done by or under the authority of the Council is invalid in
consequence of any defect that is afterwards discovered in the
appointment or qualification of its members or any of them.

Meetings and quorum of Council

 9.—(1) The Council must meet at the times and places appointed by
the president or the Registrar.

 (2) At any meeting of the Council, 5 Council members form a
quorum and no business may be transacted at any meeting unless a
quorum is present.

 (3) The president or the Council member presiding at any meeting
of the Council has an original vote and, in the case of an equality of
votes, a casting vote.

 (4) Subject to subsection (2), the Council may act despite any
vacancy in the membership of the Council.

 (5) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018, the Council may regulate its own procedure.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (6) The Council must keep minutes of its proceedings in the form or
manner that it thinks fit.

Appointment of executive secretary and other employees

 10. The Council may appoint an executive secretary and other
employees on such terms as the Council may determine.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
   Pharmacists Registration

9                          Act 2007                          2020 Ed.

Appointment of committees

   11.—(1) The Council may —

   (a) appoint one or more committees for any general or special
        purpose which, in the opinion of the Council, may be better
        dealt with or managed by a committee; and

   (b) delegate, with or without restrictions or conditions as it
        thinks fit, any of the powers or functions which may be
        exercised or performed by the Council to any committee so
        appointed.

 (2) The number and term of office of the members of a committee
and the number of those members necessary to form a quorum must
be fixed by the Council.

 (3) A committee appointed under this section may include persons
who are not Council members.

 (4) This section does not apply to a Complaints Panel, a
Disciplinary Committee, an Interim Orders Committee or a Health
Committee.

   12. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

   13. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

                                    PART 3

                 REGISTRATION OF PHARMACISTS

Registrar of Council

 14.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, the Chief Pharmacist is the
Registrar.

 (2) The Minister may appoint another person to act as Registrar
during the absence from Singapore or incapacity from illness or
otherwise of the Registrar.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                     Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.             Act 2007                                       10

Registers

 15.—(1) In addition to duties under the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, the Registrar must keep and maintain the following
registers:

(a) a register called the “Register of Pharmacists”
     containing —

           (i) in Part I of the register, the names of persons
               registered as fully registered pharmacists under
               section 16(1) and (2); and

           (ii) in Part II of the register, the names of persons
                registered as pharmacists with conditional
                registration under section 17(1);

(b) a register called the “Register of Specialists” containing
     the names of persons registered as specialists under
     section 18;

       (c) a register called the “Register of Temporarily Registered
            Pharmacists” containing the names of persons who are
            registered temporarily as pharmacists under section 19.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The particulars to be included in any register mentioned in
subsection (1) in respect of a person are —

(a) the person’s name, residential address and practice address
     (if any);

(b) the date of the person’s registration;

          (c) the qualification by virtue of which the person is registered
              and the date the person obtained the qualification; and

(d) any other particulars that the Council may determine.

(3) The Registrar —

(a) is responsible for the maintenance and custody of the
     registers; and

(b) must publish on the Council’s Internet website a list of the
     names, addresses, qualifications and date of qualifications
     and registration of all pharmacists who —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

11  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

    (i) are registered under this Act; and

    (ii) have in force practising certificates.

 (4) A registered pharmacist must inform the Registrar in writing
of —

    (a) any change in his or her name, residential address, practice
         address or any other particulars that may be prescribed,
         within 28 days of the change; and

    (b) any alteration or addition to the registered pharmacist’s
         qualification.

 (5) A person who contravenes subsection (4)(a) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$1,000.

 (6) A person who makes a report of a change in the person’s
residential address under section 10 of the National Registration
Act 1965 is deemed to have complied with subsection (4) on the date
the person makes the report.

 (7) The Registrar may disclose any information in the registers to
any person prescribed by regulations made under this Act, if the
disclosure is in accordance with such conditions as may be specified
in those regulations.

 (8) Subsection (7) does not affect any other right or duty to disclose
the information under general or written law.

Full registration

 16.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person is eligible to
be registered as a fully registered pharmacist if the person —

       (a) holds a Singapore degree; and

       (b) has acquired at least 12 months’ practical experience in the
            practice of pharmacy at any establishment approved by the
            Council, of which at least 9 months have been acquired
            under the supervision of a fully registered pharmacist at an
            establishment in Singapore.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  12

 (2) Despite subsection (1), a person, not being a Singapore degree
holder, who —

(a) holds any qualifications that may be recognised by the
     Council; and

(b) satisfies the Council that the person has special knowledge
     and skill and sufficient experience in any particular branch
     of pharmacy,

may, if the Council thinks fit so to direct, be registered as a fully
registered pharmacist.

 (3) Despite subsections (1) and (2), the Council may, if it is of the
view that it is not in the public interest for a person mentioned in
either of those subsections to be registered as a fully registered
pharmacist, direct that the person be registered as a pharmacist with
conditional registration in Part II of the Register of Pharmacists, and
section 17(3) to (8) applies accordingly.

Conditional registration

 17.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any person who holds
a prescribed qualification in pharmacy conferred by a tertiary
institution outside Singapore or any other qualification which is, in
the opinion of the Council, not lower in standing than a prescribed
qualification, is eligible to be registered as a pharmacist with
conditional registration.

 (2) The Council may require a person with a relevant qualification,
other than a prescribed qualification, to undergo and pass an
examination conducted or arranged by the Council or by such
other person as the Council may appoint to satisfy itself that the
qualification is not lower in standing than a prescribed qualification.

 (3) A person is not entitled to registration under subsection (1)
unless the person —

       (a) has acquired at least 12 months’ practical experience in the
            practice of pharmacy at any establishment approved by the
            Council, of which at least 3 months have been acquired
            under the supervision of a fully registered pharmacist at an
            establishment in Singapore;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

13  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) has been selected for employment in Singapore as a
         pharmacist in any hospital or other institution or pharmacy
         practice approved by the Council; and

    (c) has sat for and passed such examination as the Council
        may prescribe.

 (4) The conditions of a person’s registration under this section must
be specified in the direction by virtue of which the person is
registered.

 (5) Without affecting the power of the Council to impose
conditions, the direction may specify —

    (a) that the person must work for a specified period under the
         supervision of a fully registered pharmacist approved by
         the Council; and

    (b) the particular employment or the descriptions of
         employment for which the person is registered under this
         section.

 (6) The Council may cancel the conditional registration of a
pharmacist if —

    (a) the pharmacist fails to comply with any of the conditions
         specified in the direction by virtue of which he or she is
         registered; or

    (b) the Council is of the opinion, having regard to the report of
         the supervising pharmacist (if any), that the conditionally
         registered pharmacist is unable to perform the duties of a
         pharmacist satisfactorily.

 (7) A person who is or has been registered with conditional
registration may, after the end of the period of supervision specified
under subsection (5)(a), apply to the Council to be registered as a
fully registered pharmacist.

 (8) If the Council thinks fit so to direct, having regard to the
knowledge and skill shown and the experience acquired by the person
mentioned in subsection (3), the person may be registered under
section 16 as a fully registered pharmacist.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  14

 (9) Upon a pharmacist with conditional registration becoming
registered otherwise than conditionally or upon his or her registration
being cancelled under subsection (6), the pharmacist’s name must be
removed from Part II of the Register of Pharmacists.

Registration of specialists

 18.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any registered
pharmacist who —

       (a) holds such qualification, or has gained such special
            knowledge, in a specialised branch of pharmacy as the
            Council may approve;

       (b) has such experience in that branch of pharmacy as the
            Council may require; and

       (c) has fulfilled such further conditions as the Council may
            specify,

may apply to the Council to be registered as a specialist in that branch
of pharmacy.

 (2) Upon the approval of an application mentioned in
subsection (1), the Council must —

       (a) register the applicant as a specialist in the branch of
            pharmacy in the Register of Specialists that the Council
            considers appropriate to the applicant’s case, subject to
            such conditions or restrictions as the Council may impose;
            and

       (b) issue to the applicant a specialist certificate in respect of
            that specialised branch of pharmacy.

                                                                                                             [1/2010]

Temporary registration

 19.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any person —

       (a) who is resident temporarily in Singapore for the exclusive
            purpose of teaching, research or postgraduate study in an
            institution approved for that purpose by the Council;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

15  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) who possesses pharmacy knowledge, experience and skill
         which the Council considers to be of international standing
         or are such as to have special value to the people of
         Singapore; or

    (c) who is not otherwise entitled to be registered as a
        pharmacist under this Act but who, in the opinion of the
        Council, possesses other qualifications which are adequate
        for the purposes of registration under this section,

may be registered as a pharmacist in the Register of Temporarily
Registered Pharmacists for so long as the person continues to be
engaged exclusively in teaching, research or postgraduate study in
pharmacy in the approved institution or in the capacity that the
Council may specify.

 (2) The Council may require a person seeking registration under
subsection (1) to sit for and pass such examination as the Council may
prescribe.

 (3) Any registration under subsection (1) is for a period not
exceeding 2 years which may be renewed, at the discretion of the
Council, for a further period or periods each not exceeding
12 months.

 (4) A person may be registered under subsection (1) subject to such
conditions and restrictions as the Council may impose.

Evidence of qualification and entry of additional qualifications

 20.—(1) A qualification must not be entered in an appropriate
register unless the Registrar is satisfied by such evidence as the
Registrar considers proper that the person claiming the qualification
is entitled to it.

 (2) Every person registered under this Act, who obtains any
qualification in addition to the qualification by virtue of which the
person has been registered, may apply to the Council to have that
additional qualification inserted in the appropriate register.

 (3) The Council has power to decide what additional qualifications
may be entered in an appropriate register.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.                      Act 2007                              16

Application for registration

 21.—(1) An application for registration must be made in the form
and manner that the Council may determine and must be
accompanied by —

(a) such documents and particulars as the Council may
     require; and

(b) such fees as the Council may prescribe.

 (2) Before registering an applicant, the Council may require the
applicant to submit himself or herself to a medical examination by a
medical practitioner approved by the Council to determine if the
applicant is fit to practise pharmacy.

 (3) The costs of any medical examination mentioned in
subsection (2) must be borne by the applicant.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), where an applicant has complied with
subsection (1) and any requirement of the Council referred to in
subsection (2), the Council must register the applicant as a
pharmacist.

(5) The Council may refuse to register any applicant who —

(a) has had his or her registration as a pharmacist in any other
     country withdrawn, suspended or cancelled; or

(b) in the opinion of the Council —

          (i) is not a person eligible to be registered as a
              pharmacist;

          (ii) is not of good reputation and character; or

          (iii) is unfit to practise as a pharmacist by reason of his or
                her physical or mental condition.

 (6) Where the Council refuses to register an applicant, the Council
must by written notice inform the applicant of the refusal.

 (7) Any person who is aggrieved by any refusal of the Council
under subsection (5) may, within 30 days of the notice given under
subsection (6), appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

17  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

 (8) For the purpose of subsection (1), the Council may prescribe
different fees for different classes of applicants.

Certificate of registration

 22. The Council must issue a certificate of registration to a person
who has been registered as a pharmacist.

Practising certificate

 23.—(1) Any registered pharmacist who desires to obtain a
practising certificate must make an application to the Council in
the form and manner determined by the Council and the application
must be accompanied by such fee as the Council may prescribe.

 (2) A practising certificate is granted for a period not exceeding
2 years from the date of issue of the practising certificate.

 (3) Any application for renewal of a practising certificate must
be —

       (a) made no later than one month before the expiry of the
            practising certificate;

       (b) made in such form and manner as the Council may
            determine; and

       (c) accompanied by such fee as the Council may prescribe.

 (4) Any registered pharmacist who applies for a practising
certificate later than one month before the expiry of the practising
certificate is liable to pay to the Council such late application fee as
the Council may prescribe.

 (5) The Council may refuse to grant a practising certificate to a
registered pharmacist, or may refuse to renew a registered
pharmacist’s practising certificate, if the registered pharmacist fails
to comply with any condition that is prescribed by the Council with
the approval of the Minister for the purposes of this section.

 (6) Where a person has had his or her registration in respect of any
practice of pharmacy cancelled or suspended under Part 6, the person
must surrender his or her practising certificate to the Council —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  18

(a) within 14 days of being notified by the Council of the
     cancellation or suspension; or

(b) in a case where an appeal is pending under Part 6, within
     any other period that the Council may specify.

 (7) Any person who contravenes subsection (6) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$1,000.

 (8) For the purposes of subsection (4), the Council may prescribe
different late application fees for applications made before, and
applications made after, the expiry of practising certificates.

Amendment of appropriate register

 24. The Registrar must —

       (a) insert in the appropriate register any alteration which may
            come to the Registrar’s knowledge to any particulars or
            qualifications of any person registered under this Act;

       (b) correct any error in any entry in the appropriate register;
            and

       (c) remove from the appropriate register the name of any
            person —

               (i) whose name is ordered to be removed under any
                   provision of this Act;

              (ii) who is deceased;

             (iii) who has not renewed his or her practising certificate
                   for a continuous period of at least 5 years; or

             (iv) who has requested and shown sufficient reason for
                   his or her name to be removed from that appropriate
                   register, unless an inquiry has or proceedings have
                   commenced under Part 6 against that person.

Removal of name from appropriate register

 25.—(1) Despite the provisions of this Act, the Council may, upon
such evidence as it may require, order the removal from the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

19  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

appropriate register of the name of a registered pharmacist under any
of the following circumstances:

    (a) if the registered pharmacist is registered under
         section 16(1), 17 or 19 and has contravened any
         condition or restriction imposed by the Council
         regarding his or her registration;

    (b) if he or she, being a registered pharmacist whose name is in
         the Register of Specialists —

    (i) has had his or her name removed from the Register of
        Pharmacists; or

    (ii) has contravened any condition or restriction imposed
         by the Council under section 18;

    (c) if the registered pharmacist has obtained his or her
        registration by a fraudulent or an incorrect statement or
        through an error;

    (d) if the registered pharmacist’s registration as a pharmacist
         in any other country is withdrawn, suspended or cancelled
         by the authority which registered him or her; or

    (e) if the registered pharmacist’s degree or qualification which
        entitled him or her to be registered under this Act is
        withdrawn, suspended or cancelled by the authority
        through which it was acquired or by which it was awarded.

 (2) The Council must, before exercising its powers under
subsection (1), notify the registered pharmacist concerned of its
intention to take that action.

 (3) The Council must give the registered pharmacist an opportunity
to submit reasons, within a period determined by the Council, as to
why his or her name should not be removed.

 (4) Any person aggrieved by an order under subsection (1) may,
within 30 days of being notified of the order, appeal to the Minister
whose decision is final.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  20

Restoration of names removed under section 24 or 25

 26.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), where the name of a person has
been removed from an appropriate register under section 24(c)(iii) or
25(1)(a) or (b), the Council may, upon application by the person,
direct that —

(a) the person’s name be restored to the appropriate register; or

(b) the person be re-registered as a pharmacist in the Register
     of Temporarily Registered Pharmacists, and section 19(2),
     (3) and (4) applies accordingly.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must not be made to the
Council more than once in any period of 6 months by or on behalf of
the pharmacist.

 (3) An application under subsection (1) must not be made to the
Council by or on behalf of the pharmacist unless the pharmacist has
complied with all the terms of the order made against the pharmacist
under section 25(1), where applicable.

 (4) The Council may require an applicant under this section to sit
for and pass any examination prescribed by the Council, before —

(a) restoring the applicant’s name to the appropriate register;
     or

(b) re-registering the applicant as a pharmacist in the Register
     of Temporarily Registered Pharmacists under
     subsection (1)(b).

Certificate of Registrar as evidence

 27. A certificate purporting to be under the hand of the Registrar —

       (a) to the effect that at any time or during any period specified
            in the certificate any person was or was not a registered
            pharmacist, or had or did not have in force a practising
            certificate; or

       (b) as to any entry in the appropriate register, or the removal
            from that register of any entry,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

21  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

is, in the absence of proof to the contrary, and without further proof of
the signature appended to the certificate, sufficient evidence of the
matters specified in the certificate.

                                    PART 4

                      PRACTICE OF PHARMACY

Unauthorised person acting as pharmacist

 28.—(1) Subject to sections 70 and 71, an unauthorised person
shall be guilty of an offence if the person —

       (a) practises pharmacy;

       (b) wilfully and falsely pretends to be a duly qualified
            pharmacist;

       (c) practises pharmacy or any branch of pharmacy, under the
            style or title of a pharmacist or under any name, title,
            addition or description implying that the person holds any
            diploma or degree in pharmacy or in any branch of
            pharmacy;

       (d) takes or uses the name or title of pharmacist,
            pharmaceutical chemist, druggist, apothecary, or any
            other word in any language having the same meaning or
            with similar intent;

       (e) takes or uses any name, title, sign, uniform, badge, or any
            other addition or description implying, whether in itself or
            in the circumstances in which it is used, that the person is
            qualified to practise as a pharmacist; or

        (f) advertises or holds himself or herself out as a pharmacist.

 (2) It is a defence to a prosecution under subsection (1)(a) if the
defendant proves that he or she did not in any way represent himself
or herself as a duly qualified or registered pharmacist.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  22

Liability of employer, etc., for practice of pharmacy in
contravention of section 28

 29.—(1) Where an offence is committed under section 28 by any
unauthorised person acting as an employee, an agent or a partner of
another person, that other person shall also be guilty of an offence.

 (2) It is a defence to a prosecution under subsection (1) if the
defendant proves that the firstmentioned offence was committed
without the defendant’s knowledge and that the defendant has taken
all reasonable precautions and exercised due diligence to prevent the
commission of that offence by the unauthorised person.

Liability of registered pharmacist for allowing another to act in
contravention of section 28, etc.

 30.—(1) A registered pharmacist who allows an unauthorised
person to practise pharmacy in contravention of section 28 on any
premises used by or under the control of that registered pharmacist
shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) A registered pharmacist who, by his or her presence,
countenance, advice, assistance or cooperation, has knowingly
enabled an unauthorised person, whether described as an assistant
or otherwise, to practise pharmacy in contravention of section 28
shall be guilty of an offence.

 (3) It is a defence to a prosecution under subsection (1) or (2) if the
defendant proves that —

       (a) the commission of the offence was due to a mistake on the
            defendant’s part or to reliance on information supplied to
            the defendant or to the act of another person or some other
            cause beyond the defendant’s control; and

       (b) the defendant took all reasonable precautions and
            exercised due diligence to prevent the commission of the
            offence.

 (4) A registered pharmacist who practises pharmacy on any
premises on which any unauthorised person practises pharmacy in
contravention of section 28, knowing or having reason to believe that

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

23  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

that person was practising pharmacy on those premises in
contravention of section 28, shall be guilty of an offence.

Suspended persons not to practise pharmacy during period of
suspension

 31.—(1) Any person whose registration as a pharmacist under this
Act has been suspended under Part 6 must not practise pharmacy
during the period of his or her suspension.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

False assumption of title of specialist

 32.—(1) A person other than a specialist registered under
section 18 who has in force a practising certificate must not take or
use —

       (a) the name or title of specialist, or any other word in any
            language having the same meaning or with similar intent;
            or

       (b) any name, title, sign, uniform, badge, or any other thing
            implying that the person is qualified to practise any
            specialised area of pharmacy defined by the Specialists
            Accreditation Board under section 37.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

 (3) A registered pharmacist who is not registered under section 18
as a specialist in a branch of pharmacy must not —

       (a) practise pharmacy or that branch of pharmacy under the
            style or title of a specialist in that branch of pharmacy, or
            under any name, title, addition or description implying that
            he or she is such a specialist or has any degree,
            qualification or experience in that branch of pharmacy; or

       (b) advertise or hold himself or herself out as a specialist in
            that branch of pharmacy.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  24

 (4) A registered pharmacist who contravenes subsection (3) may be
subject to disciplinary proceedings under this Act.

Fraudulent registration, etc.

 33.—(1) A person must not —

       (a) procure or attempt to procure registration as a pharmacist
            under this Act, a certificate of registration or a practising
            certificate, by knowingly making or producing or causing
            to be made or produced any false or fraudulent declaration,
            certificate, application or representation, whether in
            writing or otherwise;

       (b) wilfully make or cause to be made any false entry in an
            appropriate register;

       (c) forge or alter a certificate of registration or a practising
            certificate;

       (d) fraudulently or dishonestly use as genuine a certificate of
            registration or a practising certificate which the person
            knows or has reason to believe is forged or altered; or

       (e) buy, sell or fraudulently obtain a certificate of registration
            or a practising certificate.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

Pharmacist to use only qualifications entered in register and
approved title, etc.

 34.—(1) A registered pharmacist must not —

       (a) use or exhibit or publish in any card, letter, stationery,
            nameplate, signboard, placard, circular, handbill or any
            notice displayed at the premises used by the registered
            pharmacist for the practice of pharmacy any qualification
            other than the qualifications which are entered in any
            register kept under this Act or which have been approved
            by the Council; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

25  Act 2007                  2020 Ed.

    (b) use any title, addition or designation other than the title,
         addition or designation which has been approved by the
         Council.

 (2) Any registered pharmacist who contravenes subsection (1) may
be subject to disciplinary proceedings under this Act.

General penalty

 35. Any person who is guilty of an offence under section 28(1),
29(1), 30(1), (2) or (4), 31(2), 32(2) or 33(2) shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $25,000 and, in the case of a
second or subsequent conviction for an offence under any of those
sections, to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                    PART 5

              SPECIALISTS ACCREDITATION BOARD

Establishment of Specialists Accreditation Board

 36.—(1) There is to be a board called the Specialists Accreditation
Board consisting of —

       (a) a chairperson who is appointed by the Minister from
            among the members of the Board; and

       (b) at least 6 registered pharmacists who are appointed by the
            Minister.

 (2) The chairperson and members of the Board must be appointed
for a term not exceeding 3 years but may be eligible for
re‑appointment and may at any time be removed from office by the
Minister.

 (3) If any member of the Board dies, resigns or is removed from
office, the Minister may fill the vacancy by the appointment of a
registered pharmacist and every person so appointed holds office for
the remainder of the term for which the person’s predecessor was
appointed.

 (4) The powers of the Board are not affected by any vacancy in its
membership.

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  26

(5) At any meeting of the Board, 3 Board members form a quorum.

 (6) At any meeting of the Board, the chairperson presides and in the
chairperson’s absence the Board members present must elect among
themselves one Board member to preside at the meeting.

 (7) If on any question to be determined by the Board there is an
equality of votes, the chairperson or the Board member presiding at
the meeting has a casting vote.

 (8) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board may determine
its own procedure.

 (9) The Board may appoint one or more committees consisting of
such members as it thinks fit to assist the Board in carrying out its
functions under this Act.

Functions of Specialists Accreditation Board

 37.—(1) The functions of the Board are —

       (a) to determine the qualifications, experience and other
            conditions for registration as specialists under this Act;

       (b) to define specialties in the practice of pharmacy for the
            purposes of maintaining and keeping the Register of
            Specialists;

       (c) to accredit the training programmes to be recognised for
            persons who intend to qualify for registration as specialists
            under this Act;

       (d) to certify persons who have the qualifications for
            registration as specialists under this Act;

       (e) to recommend to the Council programmes for the
            continuing pharmacy education of persons who are
            registered as specialists under this Act; and

        (f) to advise the Council on matters affecting or connected
            with the registration of specialists under this Act.

 (2) Any person who desires to have a certificate from the Board
certifying that the person has the qualifications for registration as a
specialist under this Act may apply to the Board.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

27  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

 (3) Any person who is aggrieved by the refusal of the Board to grant
a certificate mentioned in subsection (2) may, within 30 days of the
notice of the refusal, appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

                                    PART 6

             DISCIPLINARY AND HEALTH INQUIRIES

Appointment of Complaints Panel

 38.—(1) For the purpose of enabling the Complaints Committees
and Disciplinary Committees to be constituted in accordance with
this Part, the Council must appoint a panel, called the Complaints
Panel, consisting of —

       (a) at least 5 members of the Council;

       (b) not less than 10 and not more than 40 registered
            pharmacists of at least 10 years’ standing who are not
            members of the Council; and

       (c) not less than 6 and not more than 40 lay persons nominated
            by the Minister.

 (2) The term of office of a member of the Complaints Panel referred
to in subsection (1)(a) expires at the end of the member’s term of
office as member of the Council, and a member of the Complaints
Panel referred to in subsection (1)(b) or (c) must be appointed for a
term of 2 years.

 (3) Any member of the Complaints Panel is eligible for
re‑appointment.

 (4) The Council may at any time remove from office any member of
the Complaints Panel or fill any vacancy in its membership.

 (5) The Council must appoint a member of the Complaints Panel
who is a member of the Council to be the chairperson of the
Complaints Panel.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
               Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.       Act 2007                                             28

Complaints against registered pharmacists

39.—(1) Any —

(a) complaint made or information given to the Council on the
     conduct of a registered pharmacist in his or her
     professional capacity or of a registered pharmacist’s
     improper act or conduct which brings disrepute to his or
     her profession;

(b) information given to the Council on the conviction in
     Singapore or elsewhere of a registered pharmacist of any
     offence committed under this Act, the Health Products
     Act 2007, the Medicines Act 1975, the Medicines
     (Advertisement and Sale) Act 1955, the Misuse of Drugs
     Act 1973, the Poisons Act 1938 or any other written law
     that may be prescribed;

          (c) information given to the Council on the conviction in
              Singapore or elsewhere of a registered pharmacist of any
              offence involving fraud or dishonesty, or implying a defect
              in character which makes him or her unfit for his or her
              profession; or

(d) information given to the Council touching upon the
     physical or mental fitness of a registered pharmacist to
     practise as a pharmacist,

must be in writing and must be supported by such statutory
declaration as the Council may require, except that no statutory
declaration is required if the complaint or information is made or
given by a public officer or an officer of the Council.

 (2) The Council must refer the complaint or information mentioned
in subsection (1), other than a complaint or information touching on
the matters referred to in section 25, to the chairperson of the
Complaints Panel.

 (3) The Council may, on its own motion, refer any information on
the conviction of a registered pharmacist of any offence implying a
defect in character which makes the registered pharmacist unfit for
his or her profession to the chairperson of the Complaints Panel.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

29                     Act 2007                               2020 Ed.

 (4) Where a registered pharmacist has been convicted in Singapore
or elsewhere of an offence involving fraud or dishonesty or has
contravened section 32(3) or 34(1), the Council must, despite
subsection (1) or (2), immediately refer the matter to a Disciplinary
Committee under section 42.

 (5) The chairperson of the Complaints Panel may appoint from
among members of the Complaints Panel one or more committees
comprising —

    (a) a chairperson of the committee who is also a member of the
         Council;

    (b) 2 registered pharmacists, at least one of whom is not a
         member of the Council; and

    (c) a lay person,

each to be called a Complaints Committee to inquire into any
complaint or information mentioned in subsection (2) or (3).

 (6) A Complaints Committee must be appointed in connection with
one or more matters or for a fixed period of time as the chairperson of
the Complaints Panel may think fit.

 (7) Where any complaint or information mentioned in
subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c) or (3) is referred to the chairperson of
the Complaints Panel, that chairperson must lay the complaint or
information before a Complaints Committee.

 (8) Where any complaint or information mentioned in
subsection (1)(d) is referred to the chairperson of the Complaints
Panel, that chairperson must —

    (a) if he or she is satisfied, based on any information given in
         support of the complaint or information, that a formal
         inquiry is necessary to determine the physical or mental
         fitness of the registered pharmacist to practise, refer the
         complaint or information to the Health Committee; or

    (b) in any other case, lay the complaint or information before a
         Complaints Committee.

 (9) The chairperson of the Complaints Panel may at any time
revoke the appointment of any Complaints Committee or may

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  30

remove any member of a Complaints Committee or fill any vacancy
in a Complaints Committee.

 (10) No act done by or under the authority of a Complaints
Committee is invalid in consequence of any defect that is
subsequently discovered in the appointment or qualification of the
members or any of them.

 (11) All the members of a Complaints Committee must be present
to constitute a quorum for a meeting of the Complaints Committee
and any resolution or decision in writing signed by all the members of
a Complaints Committee is as valid and effectual as if it had been
made or reached at a meeting of the Complaints Committee where all
its members were present.

 (12) A Complaints Committee may meet for the purposes of its
inquiry, adjourn and otherwise regulate the conduct of its inquiry as
the members think fit.

 (13) The chairperson of a Complaints Committee may at any time
summon a meeting of the Complaints Committee.

 (14) All members of a Complaints Committee present at any
meeting thereof must vote on any question arising at the meeting and
the question must be determined by a majority of votes and, in the
case of an equality of votes, the chairperson has a casting vote.

 (15) A member of a Complaints Committee, despite having ceased
to be a member of the Complaints Panel on the expiry of his or her
term of office, is deemed to be a member of the Complaints Panel
until such time as the Complaints Committee has completed its work.

 (16) Any person who makes a complaint under this section which
the person knows to be false in any material particular shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000.

Inquiry by Complaints Committee

 40.—(1) A Complaints Committee must inquire into any complaint
or information, or any information or evidence mentioned in
subsection (9), and complete its preliminary inquiry not later than
3 months from —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                     Pharmacists Registration

31                   Act 2007                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) the date the complaint or information is laid before the
         Complaints Committee; or

    (b) the date the information or evidence mentioned in
         subsection (9) is received by the Complaints Committee,

as the case may be.

 (2) Where a Complaints Committee is of the opinion that it will not
be able to complete its preliminary inquiry within the period specified
in subsection (1) due to the complexity of the matter or serious
difficulties encountered by the Complaints Committee in conducting
its preliminary inquiry, the Complaints Committee may apply in
writing to the chairperson of the Complaints Panel for an extension of
time to complete its inquiry and the chairperson may grant such
extension of time to the Complaints Committee as the chairperson
thinks fit.

 (3) For the purposes of any inquiry, a Complaints Committee
may —

    (a) call upon or appoint any person it considers necessary to
         assist it in its investigations and deliberations;

    (b) require the production of any book, document, paper or
         other record which may be related to or be connected with
         the subject matter of the inquiry for inspection by the
         Complaints Committee or the person appointed under
         paragraph (a) and for making copies thereof; and

    (c) require the registered pharmacist concerned to give all
        information in relation to any such book, document, paper
        or other record which may be reasonably required by the
        Complaints Committee or by the person so appointed.

 (4) Any registered pharmacist or any other person who, without
lawful excuse —

    (a) refuses or fails to produce to a Complaints Committee or to
         any person to whom the Complaints Committee may
         appoint for the purpose of the inquiry any book, document,
         paper or other record mentioned in subsection (3); or

    (b) fails to give any such information relating thereto,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  32

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $50 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

 (5) All such information, including any book, document, paper or
other record used by the Complaints Committee in the course of its
deliberations, is confidential and must not be disclosed to any person,
including the registered pharmacist, unless the Complaints
Committee in its discretion thinks otherwise.

 (6) The Complaints Committee may, at any time before it makes its
findings, seek any legal advice that it thinks necessary.

 (7) Where a Complaints Committee is of the opinion that a
registered pharmacist should be called upon to answer any
allegation made against him or her, the Complaints Committee
must serve on the registered pharmacist —

(a) copies of any complaint and any statutory declaration or
     affidavit that has been made in support of the complaint; or

(b) any information and any statutory declaration or affidavit
     that has been made in support of the information,

and a notice inviting the registered pharmacist, within the period (not
being less than 21 days) specified in the notice, to give to the
Complaints Committee any written explanation the registered
pharmacist may wish to offer.

 (8) The registered pharmacist concerned does not have the right to
be heard by the Complaints Committee, whether in person or by
counsel, unless the Complaints Committee in its absolute discretion
otherwise allows.

 (9) Where, in the course of its inquiry, a Complaints Committee
receives information touching on or evidence of the conduct or
physical or mental fitness of the registered pharmacist concerned
which may give rise to proceedings under this Part, the Complaints
Committee may, after giving notice to the registered pharmacist,
decide on its own motion to inquire into that matter.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

33  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

 (10) Where the complainant withdraws his or her complaint
before —

    (a) the Council has referred the complaint to a Complaints
         Committee or the Health Committee under this Part; or

    (b) the inquiry by a Complaints Committee, Disciplinary
         Committee or the Health Committee has concluded,

the Council may, despite the withdrawal —

    (c) refer the complaint to a Complaints Committee or the
        Health Committee; or

    (d) direct a Complaints Committee, Disciplinary Committee
         or the Health Committee to continue the inquiry.

 (11) The Complaints Committee, Disciplinary Committee or
Health Committee (as the case may be) must comply with a
direction made under subsection (10)(d) and all future proceedings
thereon must be taken as if the complaint had been made by the
Council.

 (12) Any member of the Council who is employed in the Ministry
of Health is not disqualified from being a member of a Complaints
Committee, Disciplinary Committee or the Health Committee by
reason only that the member or the complainant is so employed.

Findings of Complaints Committee

 41.—(1) Upon due inquiry into the complaint or information, or
any information or evidence mentioned in section 40(9), a
Complaints Committee must —

       (a) if it is of the view that no formal inquiry is necessary —

               (i) order that the registered pharmacist be issued with a
                   letter of advice;

              (ii) order that the registered pharmacist be warned;

             (iii) order that the complaint or matter be dismissed; or

             (iv) make any other order that it thinks fit; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  34

(b) if it is of the view that a formal inquiry is necessary —

          (i) order that an inquiry be held by the Health
              Committee; or

          (ii) order that an inquiry be held by a Disciplinary
               Committee.

 (2) Where a Complaints Committee determines that a formal
inquiry is necessary, it must order that the inquiry be held by the
Health Committee if the complaint, information or evidence touches
upon the physical or mental fitness of the registered pharmacist to
practise.

 (3) Where a Complaints Committee has made an order for a formal
inquiry to be held by a Disciplinary Committee, the Council must
immediately appoint a Disciplinary Committee which must hear and
investigate the complaint or matter.

 (4) Where a Complaints Committee has ordered that a letter of
advice be issued, the chairperson of the Complaints Committee must
issue a letter of advice in such terms as it thinks fit.

 (5) A Complaints Committee must notify the registered pharmacist
concerned and the person who made the complaint or gave the
information under section 39(1) of its decision under subsection (1)
and, if it makes an order under subsection (1)(a), the reason for
making the order.

 (6) Any registered pharmacist who is aggrieved by any order of a
Complaints Committee under subsection (1)(a) may, within 30 days
of being notified of the determination of the Complaints Committee,
appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (7) Where the person who has made the complaint or given the
information to the Council is dissatisfied with any order of a
Complaints Committee under subsection (1)(a), the person may,
within 30 days of being notified of the determination of the
Complaints Committee, appeal to the Minister whose decision is
final.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

35  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

(8) The Minister may make —

    (a) an order affirming the determination of a Complaints
         Committee;

    (b) an order directing the Council to immediately appoint a
         Disciplinary Committee to hear and investigate the
         complaint or matter;

    (c) an order directing that an inquiry into the matter be held by
        the Health Committee; or

    (d) any other order that the Minister thinks fit.

 (9) Every Complaints Committee must immediately report to the
Council its findings and the order or orders made.

Disciplinary Committee

 42.—(1) The Council may appoint, from among members of the
Complaints Panel, one or more committees comprising —

       (a) at least 3 registered pharmacists of at least 10 years’
            standing of whom at least 2 must be members of the
            Council; and

       (b) one observer who is a lay person,

each to be called a Disciplinary Committee to inquire into —

       (c) any matter in respect of which the Minister or a Complaints
            Committee has under section 41 ordered that a formal
            inquiry be held; or

       (d) any matter referred to it under section 39(4).

 (2) A member of a Complaints Committee inquiring into any matter
concerning a registered pharmacist must not be a member of a
Disciplinary Committee inquiring into the same matter.

 (3) The member of a Disciplinary Committee who is an observer
must not vote on any question or matter to be decided by the
Disciplinary Committee and need not be present at every meeting of
the Disciplinary Committee.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  36

 (4) A Disciplinary Committee may be appointed in connection with
one or more matters or for a fixed period of time as the Council thinks
fit.

(5) The Council may at any time —

(a) revoke the appointment of any Disciplinary Committee;

(b) remove any member of a Disciplinary Committee; or

          (c) fill any vacancy in a Disciplinary Committee.

 (6) No act done by or under the authority of a Disciplinary
Committee is invalid in consequence of any defect that is
subsequently discovered in the appointment or qualification of the
members or any of them.

(7) Except as provided by subsection (3) —

(a) all members of a Disciplinary Committee must be
     personally present to constitute a quorum for the
     transaction of any business; and

(b) all members of a Disciplinary Committee present at any
     meeting thereof must vote on any question arising at the
     meeting and the question is to be determined by a majority
     of votes and, in the case of an equality of votes, the
     chairperson has a casting vote.

 (8) The Council must appoint a member of a Disciplinary
Committee who is a registered pharmacist to be the chairperson of
the Disciplinary Committee.

Proceedings of Disciplinary Committee

 43.—(1) A Disciplinary Committee must meet to inquire into any
matter referred to it by the Council and may regulate its own
procedure.

 (2) A member of a Disciplinary Committee, despite having ceased
to be a member of the Council or Complaints Panel on the expiry of
his or her term of office, continues to be a member of the Disciplinary
Committee until such time as the Disciplinary Committee has
completed its work.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

37  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

 (3) The registered pharmacist concerned may appear in person or
be represented by counsel.

 (4) A Disciplinary Committee is not bound to act in any formal
manner and is not bound by the provisions of the Evidence Act 1893
or by any other written law relating to evidence but may inform itself
on any matter in such manner as it thinks fit.

 (5) A Disciplinary Committee may, for the purpose of any
proceedings before it, administer oaths and any party to the
proceedings may take out a subpoena to testify or to produce
documents.

 (6) The subpoenas referred to in subsection (5) must be served and
may be enforced as if they were orders to attend court or orders to
produce documents issued in connection with a civil action in the
General Division of the High Court.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (7) Any person giving evidence before a Disciplinary Committee is
legally bound to tell the truth.

 (8) A witness has the same privileges and immunities in relation to
hearings before a Disciplinary Committee as if the hearings were
proceedings in a court of law.

 (9) A Disciplinary Committee must carry out its work expeditiously
and may apply to the Council for an extension of time and for
directions to be given to the Disciplinary Committee if the
Disciplinary Committee fails to make its finding and order within
6 months from the date of its appointment.

 (10) When an application for extension of time has been made
under subsection (9), the Council may grant an extension of time for
any period it thinks fit.

 (11) In sections 172, 173, 174, 175, 177, 179, 182 and 228 of the
Penal Code 1871, “public servant” is deemed to include a member of
a Disciplinary Committee taking part in any investigation under this
section, and in sections 193 and 228 of the Penal Code 1871, “judicial
proceeding” is deemed to include any such investigation.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  38

Reference and transfer of cases to Health Committee

 44.—(1) Where, in the course of inquiring into the case of a
registered pharmacist, it appears to a Disciplinary Committee that the
registered pharmacist’s fitness to practise may be impaired by reason
of his or her physical or mental condition, the Disciplinary
Committee may refer that question to the Health Committee for
determination.

 (2) If, on a reference under this section, the Health Committee
determines that the fitness of the registered pharmacist to practise is
not impaired by reason of his or her condition, the Health Committee
must certify its opinion to the Disciplinary Committee.

 (3) If, on a reference under this section, the Health Committee
determines that the fitness of the registered pharmacist to practise is
impaired by reason of his or her condition, the Health Committee
must —

(a) certify its opinion to the Disciplinary Committee; and

(b) proceed to dispose of the case,

and the Disciplinary Committee ceases to exercise its function in
relation to the case.

Findings of Disciplinary Committee

 45.—(1) A Disciplinary Committee may exercise one or more of
the powers mentioned in subsection (2) where a registered pharmacist
is found or judged by the Disciplinary Committee —

       (a) to have been convicted in Singapore or elsewhere of an
            offence under any of the written laws referred to in
            section 39(1)(b);

       (b) to have been convicted in Singapore or elsewhere of an
            offence involving fraud or dishonesty, or implying a defect
            in character which makes the registered pharmacist unfit
            for his or her profession;

       (c) to be guilty of such improper act or conduct which, in the
            opinion of the Council, brings disrepute to his or her
            profession;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

39  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

    (d) to be guilty of professional misconduct; or

    (e) to have contravened section 32(3) or 34(1).

 (2) The powers that the Disciplinary Committee may exercise for
the purposes of subsection (1) are as follows:

    (a) by order direct the Registrar to remove the name of the
         registered pharmacist from the appropriate register;

    (b) by order suspend the registration of the registered
         pharmacist in the appropriate register for a period of at
         least 3 months but not more than 3 years;

    (c) by order impose conditions necessary to restrict the
        practice of the registered pharmacist in the manner that
        the Disciplinary Committee considers appropriate for a
        period not exceeding 3 years;

    (d) by order impose on the registered pharmacist a penalty not
         exceeding $50,000;

    (e) by writing censure the registered pharmacist;

    (f) issue a letter of advice or warning to the registered
        pharmacist;

    (g) by order require the registered pharmacist to give an
         undertaking that the Disciplinary Committee considers
         appropriate to abstain from the conduct complained of in
         future;

    (h) make any other order that the Disciplinary Committee
         considers appropriate.

 (3) In any proceedings instituted under this Part against a registered
pharmacist consequent upon his or her conviction for a criminal
offence, a Disciplinary Committee and the General Division of the
High Court on appeal from any order of the Disciplinary Committee
must accept the conviction as final and conclusive.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (4) Where a registered pharmacist is not found or judged by the
Disciplinary Committee to have been convicted or guilty of any
matter referred to in subsection (1), the Disciplinary Committee must
dismiss the complaint or matter.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  40

 (5) The Registrar must serve on the registered pharmacist
concerned and the person who made the complaint or gave the
information (if any) a notice of the order made by the Disciplinary
Committee.

 (6) A Disciplinary Committee may under subsection (2) order the
registered pharmacist concerned to pay to the Council such sums as it
thinks fit in respect of the costs and expenses of and incidental to any
proceedings before the Disciplinary Committee and, where
applicable, an Interim Orders Committee.

 (7) The General Division of the High Court has jurisdiction to tax
the costs mentioned in subsection (6) and any such order for costs
made is enforceable as if it were ordered in connection with a civil
action in the General Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (8) The Disciplinary Committee, in ordering that costs be paid by
the registered pharmacist under this section, may certify that costs for
more than one solicitor be paid if it is satisfied that the issues involved
in the proceedings are of sufficient complexity, and the certification
by the Disciplinary Committee has the same effect as if it were a
certification by a Judge in a civil action in the General Division of the
High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (9) The costs and expenses mentioned in subsection (6) include —

(a) the costs and expenses of any assessor and advocate and
     solicitor appointed by the Council for proceedings before
     the Disciplinary Committee and the Interim Orders
     Committee;

(b) reasonable expenses that the Council may pay to
     witnesses; and

          (c) reasonable expenses that are necessary for the conduct of
              proceedings before the Disciplinary Committee and the
              Interim Orders Committee.

Orders of Disciplinary Committee

 46.—(1) Where a registered pharmacist in respect of whom an
order is made under section 45(2)(c), or an order for interim restricted

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

41  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

registration is made under section 54(1)(b) or 56(1)(d), is judged by a
Disciplinary Committee (whether, in the case of an order under
section 45(2)(c), it is the Disciplinary Committee that made the order
or another Disciplinary Committee appointed in its place) to have
failed to comply with any of the requirements imposed on the
registered pharmacist as conditions of his or her registration, the
Disciplinary Committee may order that —

    (a) the registered pharmacist’s name be removed from the
         appropriate register; or

    (b) the registered pharmacist’s registration in the appropriate
         register be suspended for a period not exceeding 12 months
         as may be specified in the order.

 (2) Where a Disciplinary Committee has made an order for
suspension under subsection (1)(b) or section 45(2)(b), the
Disciplinary Committee may order that, from the expiry of the
current period of suspension, the registration of the person whose
registration is suspended be restricted in such manner as it thinks fit
for a period not exceeding 3 years.

 (3) Where a Disciplinary Committee has made an order for
suspension under subsection (1)(b) or section 45(2)(b) against a
person and that person has failed to comply with that order, the
Disciplinary Committee or another Disciplinary Committee
appointed in its place may order that —

    (a) the person’s name be removed from the appropriate
         register; or

    (b) from the expiry of the current period of suspension, the
         person’s registration in the appropriate register be
         restricted in such manner as it thinks fit for a period not
         exceeding 3 years.

 (4) Where a Disciplinary Committee has made an order under
section 45(2)(c), the Disciplinary Committee or another Disciplinary
Committee appointed in its place may revoke the order or revoke or
vary any of the conditions imposed by the order.

 (5) Subsection (1) applies to a registered pharmacist whose
registration is subject to conditions imposed by an order made

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  42

under subsection (2) or (3) as it applies to a registered pharmacist
whose registration is subject to conditions imposed by an order for
restricted registration made under section 45(2)(c), and subsection (4)
applies accordingly.

 (6) Where a Disciplinary Committee has made an order or has
varied the conditions imposed by an order under this section, the
Registrar must immediately serve on the person to whom the order
applies a notice of the order or the variation.

 (7) Subject to subsection (8), an order made by a Disciplinary
Committee for the removal of any name or for suspension of
registration under subsection (1) or (3) or section 45(2) does not take
effect until the expiry of 30 days after the order is made.

 (8) On making an order for the removal of any name or for
suspension of registration under subsection (1) or (3) or section 45(2),
a Disciplinary Committee may, if satisfied that to do so is necessary
for the protection of members of the public or would be in the best
interests of the registered pharmacist concerned, order that the
registered pharmacist’s registration in the appropriate register be
suspended or that the registered pharmacist’s name be removed from
the appropriate register immediately.

 (9) Where an order under subsection (8) is made, the Registrar must
immediately serve a notice of the order on the person to whom it
applies and if that person was present or represented at the
proceedings of the Disciplinary Committee, the order takes effect
from the time the order is made.

 (10) Where the person concerned is neither present nor represented
at the proceedings of the Disciplinary Committee, the order made
under subsection (8) takes effect from the time of service of the notice
of the order on the person.

 (11) An order of a Disciplinary Committee, other than an order for
the removal of any name or for suspension of registration under
subsection (1) or (3) or section 45(2), takes effect from the time the
order is made.

 (12) While any order of suspension of registration remains in force,
the person concerned is not to be regarded as being registered under

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

43  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

this Act even though the person’s name still appears in the
appropriate register, but immediately on the expiry of the order the
person’s rights and privileges as a registered pharmacist are revived
as from the date of the expiry, provided that the pharmacist has
complied with all the terms of the order.

Appeal against order by Disciplinary Committee

 47.—(1) Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Disciplinary
Committee referred to in section 45(2) or (4) or 46 may, within
30 days after the service on him or her of the notice of the order,
appeal to the General Division of the High Court against the order.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) There is no appeal from the decision of the General Division of
the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) In any appeal to the General Division of the High Court against
a decision referred to in section 45(2) or (4) or 46, the General
Division of the High Court must accept as final and conclusive any
finding of the Disciplinary Committee relating to any issue of ethics
or standards of professional conduct, unless the finding is in the
opinion of the General Division of the High Court unsafe,
unreasonable or contrary to the evidence.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (4) Despite section 45 or 46, where a person has appealed to the
General Division of the High Court against an order mentioned in
section 45(2) or 46, the order does not take effect unless the order is
confirmed by the General Division of the High Court or the appeal is
for any reason dismissed by the General Division of the High Court or
withdrawn.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Restoration of names to appropriate register

 48.—(1) Where the name of a pharmacist has been removed from
an appropriate register pursuant to an order made by a Disciplinary
Committee under section 45 or 46, the Council may, upon application
by the pharmacist and subject to any conditions it thinks fit, direct that
the pharmacist’s name be restored to the appropriate register.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  44

 (2) An application for the restoration of a name to an appropriate
register under this section must not be made to the Council —

(a) before the expiry of 3 years from the date of the removal of
     the name; or

(b) more than once in any period of 12 months by or on behalf
     of the pharmacist,

and unless the pharmacist has complied with all the terms of the order
made against him or her.

Report of breach

 49. Where any breach of any written law is disclosed to the
Disciplinary Committee in the course of an inquiry, the Disciplinary
Committee may report the breach to the appropriate authorities.

Health Committee

 50.—(1) There is to be a committee called the Health Committee
comprising at least 3 members of the Council to be appointed by the
Council which must inquire into any case referred to it under this Act.

 (2) A member of the Health Committee must be appointed for a
period of 2 years and is eligible for re-appointment.

Unfitness to practise through illness, etc.

 51.—(1) Where the Health Committee is satisfied that the fitness of
a registered pharmacist to practise as a pharmacist is impaired by
reason of the registered pharmacist’s physical or mental condition,
the Health Committee may exercise one or more of the following
powers:

       (a) order that the registered pharmacist pays to the Council the
            costs and expenses of and incidental to the inquiry by the
            Health Committee and, where applicable, an Interim
            Orders Committee, including the costs and expenses of
            any medical examination incurred by the Council and of
            the medical assessor in respect of the inquiry;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

45  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) order that the registered pharmacist’s registration as a
         pharmacist be suspended for a period not exceeding
         12 months as specified in the order;

    (c) order that the registered pharmacist’s registration as a
        pharmacist be conditional upon his or her compliance,
        during a period not exceeding 3 years as specified in the
        order, with any requirements so specified that the Health
        Committee thinks fit to impose for the protection of
        members of the public or in the registered pharmacist’s
        interests (called in this Part a restricted registration);

    (d) recommend to the Council that the registered pharmacist’s
         name be removed from the appropriate register.

 (2) An order mentioned in subsection (1)(a) is enforceable as if it
were ordered in connection with a civil action in the General Division
of the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) Where a registered pharmacist in respect of whom an order for
restricted registration is made under subsection (1)(c), or an order for
interim restricted registration is made under section 54(1)(b) or
56(1)(d), is judged by the Health Committee to have failed to comply
with any of the requirements imposed on him or her as conditions of
his or her registration, the Health Committee may, order that the
registered pharmacist’s registration in the appropriate register be
suspended for a period not exceeding 12 months as specified in the
order.

 (4) Where the Council accepts the recommendation of the Health
Committee under subsection (1)(d), the Council must by order direct
that the name of the registered pharmacist be removed from the
appropriate register, and that order takes effect from the date the order
is made.

 (5) Where the Health Committee has made an order for suspension
under subsection (1) or (3), the Health Committee may order that,
from the expiry of the current period of suspension, the registration of
the person whose registration is suspended be a restricted registration.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  46

 (6) Where the Health Committee has made an order for suspension
under subsection (1) or (3) against a person and that person has failed
to comply with that order, the Health Committee may —

(a) make a recommendation referred to in subsection (1)(d) to
     the Council, and subsection (4) applies accordingly; or

(b) order that, from the expiry of the current period of
     suspension, the person’s registration in the appropriate
     register be restricted in any manner that it thinks fit for a
     period not exceeding 3 years.

 (7) Where the Health Committee has made an order for restricted
registration, the Health Committee may revoke the order or revoke or
vary any of the conditions imposed by the order.

 (8) Subsection (3) applies to a registered pharmacist whose
registration is subject to conditions imposed by an order for
restricted registration made under subsection (5) or (6) as it applies
to a registered pharmacist whose registration is subject to conditions
imposed by an order for restricted registration made under
subsection (1)(c), and subsection (7) applies accordingly.

(9) Where the Health Committee has —

(a) made an order under this section for suspension or for
     restricted registration, including an order for extending a
     period of suspension or a period of restricted registration;
     or

(b) varied the conditions imposed by a direction for restricted
     registration,

the Registrar must immediately serve on the person to whom the
order applies a notice of the order or of the variation.

 (10) While a person’s registration in the appropriate register is
suspended by virtue of this section, the person is to be treated as not
being registered in that register even though the person’s name still
appears in it.

 (11) Sections 42(5), (6) and (7) and 43 apply, with the necessary
modifications, to the Health Committee and references to a

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

47  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

Disciplinary Committee are to be read as references to the Health
Committee.

 (12) Any person who is aggrieved by any order or any variation of
the conditions imposed by an order for restricted registration made by
the Health Committee under this section may, within 30 days of the
service on the person of the notification of the order, appeal to the
Minister whose decision is final.

 (13) Any order or any variation of the conditions imposed by an
order for restricted registration made by the Health Committee takes
effect from the time the order or variation is made unless the Minister
decides otherwise.

Restoration of names removed on recommendation of Health
Committee

 52.—(1) Where the name of a person has been removed from an
appropriate register on the recommendation of the Health Committee
under section 51, the Council may, upon application by the person,
direct that the person’s name be restored to the appropriate register.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must not be made to the
Council more than once in any period of 12 months by or on behalf of
the person.

 (3) An application under subsection (1) must not be made to the
Council by or on behalf of the person unless the person has complied
with all the terms of the order made against him or her.

Interim Orders Committee

 53.—(1) The Council may appoint one or more committees
comprising 3 of its members, each to be known for the purposes of
this Act as an Interim Orders Committee, to inquire into any matter
referred by the Council under subsection (3).

 (2) An Interim Orders Committee may be appointed in connection
with one or more matters or for a fixed period of time.

 (3) The chairperson of the Complaints Panel, a Complaints
Committee, a Disciplinary Committee or the Health Committee
may refer any complaint or information to the Council for the purpose

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  48

of determining if an order should be made under section 54; and the
Council must refer the complaint or information to an Interim Orders
Committee for this purpose.

 (4) A member of a Complaints Committee or Disciplinary
Committee inquiring into any matter must not be a member of an
Interim Orders Committee inquiring into or reviewing that matter.

 (5) A member of an Interim Orders Committee inquiring into or
reviewing any matter must not be a member of a Complaints
Committee or Disciplinary Committee inquiring into that matter, or
take part in any deliberation of the Council under section 51(4) in
respect of that matter.

 (6) Neither the chairperson of the Complaints Panel nor any
member of the Health Committee may be a member of an Interim
Orders Committee.

 (7) All members of an Interim Orders Committee must vote on any
question arising at a meeting of the Interim Orders Committee and the
question must be determined by a majority of votes.

 (8) A member of an Interim Orders Committee which has
commenced any inquiry or review of any case must, despite having
ceased to be a member of the Council, continue to be a member of the
Interim Orders Committee until the completion of that inquiry or
review.

 (9) Sections 42(5), (6) and (7) and 43(1), (4) to (8) and (11) apply,
with the necessary modifications, to an Interim Orders Committee
and to proceedings before it as they apply to a Disciplinary
Committee and to proceedings before a Disciplinary Committee.

Interim orders

 54.—(1) Where, upon due inquiry into any complaint or
information referred to it, an Interim Orders Committee is satisfied
that it is necessary for the protection of members of the public or is
otherwise in the public interest, or is in the interests of a registered
pharmacist, for the registered pharmacist’s registration to be
suspended or to be made subject to conditions, the Interim Orders
Committee may make an order that —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

49  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) the registered pharmacist’s registration in the appropriate
         register be suspended for a period not exceeding 18 months
         as specified in the order (called in this Part an interim
         suspension order); or

    (b) the registered pharmacist’s registration be conditional on
         his or her compliance, during a period not exceeding
         18 months as specified in the order, with such requirements
         so specified as the Interim Orders Committee thinks fit to
         impose (called in this Part an order for interim restricted
         registration).

 (2) The Registrar must immediately serve a notification of the order
under subsection (1) on the registered pharmacist.

Review of interim orders

 55.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), where an Interim Orders
Committee has made an order under section 54, the Interim Orders
Committee or another Interim Orders Committee appointed in its
place —

       (a) must review it within 6 months beginning on the date on
            which the order was made, and must then, for so long as the
            order continues in force, further review it before the end of
            3 months beginning on the date of the decision of the
            immediately preceding review; and

       (b) may review it where new evidence relevant to the order has
            become available after the order was made.

 (2) Where the General Division of the High Court has extended the
order under section 58(2) or an Interim Orders Committee has made a
replacement order under section 56(1)(c) or (d), the first review after
the extension or making of the replacement order must take place —

       (a) if the order (or the order which has been replaced) had not
            been reviewed under subsection (1), within 6 months
            beginning on the date on which the General Division of the
            High Court ordered the extension or on which the
            replacement order was made, as the case may be; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  50

(b) if it had been reviewed under subsection (1), within
     3 months beginning on the date on which the General
     Division of the High Court ordered the extension or on
     which the replacement order was made.

                                                                                                 [40/2019]

Interim Orders Committee may revoke, vary or replace
interim order

 56.—(1) Where an interim suspension order or an order for interim
restricted registration has been made under this section or section 54
in relation to any registered pharmacist, the Interim Orders
Committee that made the order or another Interim Orders
Committee appointed in its place may, either upon its review
mentioned in section 55 or upon the recommendation of a
Complaints Committee, a Disciplinary Committee or the Health
Committee —

       (a) revoke the order or revoke any condition imposed by the
            order;

       (b) make an order varying any condition imposed by the order;

       (c) if satisfied that to do so is necessary for the protection of
            members of the public or is otherwise in the public interest,
            or is in the interests of the registered pharmacist concerned,
            or that the registered pharmacist has not complied with any
            requirement imposed as a condition of his or her
            registration in the order for interim restricted
            registration, replace that order with an interim
            suspension order having effect for the remainder of the
            period of the former; or

       (d) if satisfied that the public interest or the interests of the
            registered pharmacist concerned would be more
            adequately served by an order for interim restricted
            registration, replace the interim suspension order with an
            order for interim restricted registration having effect for
            the remainder of the period of the former.

 (2) The Registrar must immediately serve a notification of the
decision under subsection (1) on the registered pharmacist.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                  Pharmacists Registration

51                Act 2007                                    2020 Ed.

Right of hearing

 57.—(1) An order under section 54 or 56(1)(b), (c) or (d) must not
be made by an Interim Orders Committee in respect of any registered
pharmacist unless the registered pharmacist has been afforded an
opportunity of appearing before the Interim Orders Committee and
being heard on the question whether such an order should be made in
his or her case.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the registered pharmacist
may be represented before the Interim Orders Committee by counsel.

 (3) Regulations made for the purposes of an Interim Orders
Committee may include provision securing that the registered
pharmacist in respect of whom an interim suspension order or an
order for interim restricted registration has been made is, if the
registered pharmacist so requires, entitled to be heard by the Interim
Orders Committee on each occasion on which it reviews the order,
and be represented by counsel during the review.

Application to General Division of High Court

 58.—(1) The Council may apply to the General Division of the
High Court for an order made under section 54 or 56(1)(c) or (d) to be
extended, and may apply again for further extensions.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) On such an application, the General Division of the High Court
may extend (or further extend) for up to 12 months the period for
which the order has effect.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) The General Division of the High Court may, on application by
the registered pharmacist concerned —

       (a) in the case of an interim suspension order, revoke the
            order;

       (b) in the case of an order for interim restricted registration,
            revoke the order or vary any condition imposed by the
            order; and

       (c) in either case, substitute for the period specified in the
            order (or in the order extending it) some other period which

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  52

          could have been specified in the order when it was made
          (or in the order extending it).

                                                                                                   [40/2019]

Duration of interim orders

 59.—(1) An interim suspension order or an order for interim
restricted registration is in force until the earlier of the following:

       (a) the end of the period specified in the order or, if extended
            under section 58(2), in the order extending it;

       (b) the date on which proceedings are concluded.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(b), proceedings are
concluded if —

       (a) the Complaints Committee inquiring into the complaint or
            information has made an order under section 41(1)(a)
            and —

               (i) no appeal to the Minister under section 41(6) or (7)
                   has been made against that order within the period
                   specified in that section or such an appeal is
                   withdrawn; or

              (ii) the Minister makes an order under section 41(8)(a)
                   or (c);

       (b) the Disciplinary Committee inquiring into the complaint or
            information has made an order under section 45(2) which
            has taken effect, or has dismissed the complaint or matter
            under section 45(4); or

       (c) the Health Committee has made an order under
            section 51(1) which has taken effect, the Council has
            made an order under section 51(4) which has taken effect,
            or the Health Committee has dismissed the complaint or
            matter.

Person suspended under interim suspension order not
regarded as registered

 60.—(1) While a person’s registration in the appropriate register is
suspended by virtue of an interim suspension order, the person is not

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

53  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

to be regarded as being registered even though the person’s name still
appears in that register.

 (2) Immediately upon the expiry or revocation of the order, the
person’s rights and privileges as a registered pharmacist are revived
from the date of the expiry or revocation, provided that the person has
complied with all the terms of the order.

 (3) To avoid doubt, the provisions of this Part, where relevant,
continue to apply to a person whose registration in the appropriate
register is suspended by virtue of an interim suspension order.

Council may appoint legal counsel

 61. For the purposes of an inquiry under this Part by a Disciplinary
Committee, the Health Committee or an Interim Orders Committee,
the Council may appoint an advocate and solicitor and pay him or her,
as part of the expenses of the Council, any remuneration determined
by the Council.

Recovery of penalties and costs

 62. Any financial penalty and costs payable by any person under
this Part are recoverable by the Council as a debt due to the Council
from that person and the person’s liability to pay is not affected by the
person ceasing to be registered with the Council.

                                    PART 7

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Application of funds of Council

 63.—(1) All fees, penalties and other moneys payable under this
Act must be paid to the Council and any fee, penalty or other money
not paid is recoverable by the Council as a debt due to the Council.

 (2) Subject to subsection (2A) and section 69(4), all moneys
received by the Council or the Registrar must be paid into the funds of
the Council.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  54

 (2A) All penalties collected or recovered under this Act must be
paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

 (3) The costs and expenses of and incidental to the performance of
the functions of the Council and any committee appointed by the
Council under this Act must be paid by the Council out of its funds.

 (4) The Minister may pay into the funds of the Council such sum of
money out of moneys to be provided by Parliament as the Minister
may determine.

Fees payable to members of Council and members of
committees

 64. There must be paid to —
       (a) the members of the Council; and
       (b) the members of any committee appointed by the Council,

who are not public officers such fees as the Minister may approve.

Inspectors

 65.—(1) The Council may appoint one or more public officers or
officers of the Council as inspectors to investigate the commission of
an offence under this Act.

 (2) In any case relating to the commission of an offence under this
Act, an inspector has the power to do all or any of the following:

       (a) to require any person whom the inspector has reason to
            believe has any article, document or information relevant
            to the carrying out of the provisions of this Act to produce
            that article or document, or give that information, and to
            retain that article or document, or make copies of that
            document;

       (b) to examine orally any person supposed to be acquainted
            with the facts and circumstances relevant to the carrying
            out of the provisions of this Act and to reduce into writing
            the answer given or statement made by that person;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

55                    Act 2007                                2020 Ed.

    (c) to require by order in writing the attendance before the
        inspector of any person who, from information given or
        otherwise, appears to be acquainted with facts and
        circumstances relevant to the carrying out of the
        provisions of this Act.

 (3) A person examined under subsection (2)(b) is bound to state
truly the facts and circumstances with which the person is acquainted,
and the statement made by that person under that subsection must be
read over to that person and, after correction, be signed by that
person.

 (4) An inspector may apply to a Magistrate for a search warrant if
the inspector has reasonable cause to believe that evidence of the
commission of an offence under this Act can be found therein; and the
Magistrate may, if satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for
doing so, issue the warrant.

 (5) Any inspector authorised by a search warrant issued under
subsection (4) may enter and search the premises referred to in the
warrant and seize any thing found on the premises which the
inspector reasonably believes is evidence of the commission of an
offence under this Act.

(6) Any person who —

    (a) intentionally offers any resistance to or wilfully delays an
         inspector in the exercise of any power under subsection (2)
         or pursuant to a search warrant issued under subsection (4);
         or

    (b) fails to comply with any requirement or order of an
         inspector under subsection (2),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Assessors to Council

 66.—(1) For the purposes of advising the Council and any
committee appointed by the Council, the Council may appoint a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  56

legal assessor who must be an advocate and solicitor of at least
10 years’ standing.

 (2) The legal assessor must not participate or sit in any deliberation
of the Council or any committee appointed by the Council unless
invited to do so, and the legal assessor’s participation is limited only
to questions of law arising from the proceedings.

 (3) The Council may appoint a medical assessor to assist the
Council and any committee appointed by the Council in proceedings
before any of them under the provisions of this Act.

 (4) The Council may pay to the legal assessor and medical assessor,
as part of the expenses of the Council, such remuneration as the
Council may determine.

Protection against liability

 67. No action shall lie against the Council, any committee or
inspector appointed by the Council, or any member or employee of
the Council or committee, for any act or thing done under this Act in
respect of any matter or thing done in good faith for the purposes of
carrying out the provisions of this Act.

Jurisdiction of court

 68. Despite anything to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment in
respect of the offence.

Composition of offences

 69.—(1) The Council may compound any offence under this Act
that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
not exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $2,000.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

57  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) The Council may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to prescribe the offences that may be compounded.

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

Exemption in respect of pharmacy training

 70. Nothing in this Act prevents the doing of any act within the
practice of pharmacy by any person if the act is carried out —

       (a) in the course of the person’s training;

       (b) under the supervision of a pharmacist registered under
            section 16(1); and

       (c) in an establishment approved by the Council for the
            purpose of section 16(1)(b) or 17(3)(a).

General exemption

 71. The Minister may, after consultation with the Council, by order
in the Gazette and subject to any conditions that the Minister may
impose, exempt any person or class of persons from all or any of the
provisions of this Act.

Service of documents

 72.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by or under this
Act to be served on a person may be served as described in this
section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on an individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents
            generally, or specifically for the document, or (if no
            address is so specified) the individual’s residential address
            or business address;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  58

          (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
              adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
              business address with an adult apparently employed there;

(d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
     at the individual’s residential address or business address;
     or

          (e) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
              address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a partnership (other than a limited liability partnership)
may be served —

(a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer, or an
     authorised representative, of the partnership;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the partnership’s business address; or

          (c) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
              address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a body corporate (including a limited liability partnership)
or an unincorporated association may be served —

(a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
     body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
     limited liability partnership’s manager;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the registered office or principal office in Singapore of
     the body corporate or unincorporated association; or

          (c) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
              corporate or unincorporated association.

(5) Service of a document under this section takes effect —

(a) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
     after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
     undelivered); or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

59                     Act 2007                               2020 Ed.

    (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
         becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
         it is sent.

 (6) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email may be effected only with the person’s prior written consent to
service in that way.

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

(8) In this section —

    “authorised representative”, in relation to a partnership (other
       than a limited liability partnership), means any person
       authorised to accept service of documents on behalf of the
       partnership;

    “business address” means —

    (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
         last known place of business in Singapore; or

    (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
         liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
         last known place of business in Singapore;

    “document” includes a direction, an order or a notice permitted
       or required by or under this Act to be served;

    “last email address” means the last email address given by the
       addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
       document as the email address for the service of documents
       under this Act;

    “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
       place of residence in Singapore.

                                 [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

Amendment of Schedule

 73. The Minister may, after consultation with the Council, by order
in the Gazette, amend the Schedule.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
             Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.     Act 2007                                               60

Regulations

 74.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Council may,
with the approval of the Minister, make regulations which are
necessary or expedient to give effect to the provisions and purposes of
this Act and the due administration of this Act.

(2) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations may be made to —

(a) provide for the duties of the Registrar;

(b) regulate the registration of pharmacists and specialists;

          (c) regulate the certification of specialists;

(d) provide for the form of the appropriate register and the
     mode in which it must be kept;

          (e) regulate the grant and renewal of practising certificates;

          (f) regulate the procedure and the conduct of proceedings of a
              Complaints Committee, a Disciplinary Committee, the
              Health Committee, and Interim Orders Committee or any
              committee appointed by the Council under this Act;

(g) regulate the professional practice, etiquette, conduct and
     discipline of registered pharmacists and specialists;

(h) regulate the removal and restoration of names in an
     appropriate register;

          (i) prescribe the forms necessary for the administration of this
              Act;

          (j) prescribe the fees and other charges for the purposes of this
              Act;

          (k) provide for the duties, functions and payment of the legal
              assessor and medical assessor appointed under section 66;

          (l) provide that any person who contravenes the regulations
              shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
              conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
              imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
              both; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Pharmacists Registration

61  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

    (m) prescribe any other matters necessary or expedient for
         carrying out the provisions of this Act.

Saving and transitional provisions

 75.—(1) To avoid doubt, sections 26, 48 and 52 of this Act also
apply to any person whose name was removed from the register kept
under the repealed Act.

 (2) Any certificate of registration issued under section 8(7) of the
repealed Act, if still in force immediately before 1 September 2008, is
deemed as from that date to be a certificate of registration issued
under section 22 of this Act and is subject to the provisions of this
Act.

 (3) This Act does not affect the continued operation or force of any
finding or order following every disciplinary proceeding, inquiry or
investigation commenced or pending under the repealed Act before
1 September 2008.

 (4) Any written law or document referring to the repealed Act is, as
far as may be necessary for preserving its effect, to be construed as
referring or as including a reference to this Act.

 (5) Any reference in any written law or document to the Pharmacy
Board is to be read as a reference to the Singapore Pharmacy Council.

 (6) Any subsidiary legislation made under the repealed Act and in
force immediately before 1 September 2008, so far as it is not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, continues in force as if
made under this Act until it is revoked or repealed.

 (7) In this section —

      “Pharmacy Board” means the Pharmacy Board established
         under section 3 of the repealed Act;

      “repealed Act” means the Pharmacists Registration Act
         (Cap. 230, 1985 Revised Edition) repealed by this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Pharmacists Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  62

          THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                Sections 2 and 73

                    ACTS OR ACTIVITIES CONSTITUTING
                           “PRACTICE OF PHARMACY”

1. Applying the knowledge and science of pharmacy in —

       (a) interpreting, evaluating and implementing prescriptions of persons
            authorised by law to prescribe medication;

       (b) compounding, labelling, dispensing, distributing and administering
            medication;

       (c) initiating and modifying medication therapy in accordance with the
            collaborative practice agreements established and approved by
            healthcare facilities or voluntary agreements with persons authorised
            by law to prescribe medication;

       (d) patient assessment and counselling for the purpose of recommending
            and dispensing medication;

(e) managing medication therapy;

       (f) evaluating medication use;

       (g) manufacturing and distributing medicinal products, oral dental gums
            and therapeutic products; and

       (h) quality assurance of medicinal products, oral dental gums and
            therapeutic products.

2. In paragraph 1(g) and (h) —

    “medicinal product” has the meaning given by the Medicines Act 1975;

“oral dental gum” means a health product registered or deemed to be
   registered as an oral dental gum under the Health Products Act 2007;

“therapeutic product” means a health product categorised as a therapeutic
   product in the First Schedule to the Health Products Act 2007.

                                                                                                [S 554/2016]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                    LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

               PHARMACISTS REGISTRATION
                              ACT 2007

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 48 of 2007 — Pharmacists Registration Act 2007

Date of First Reading     : 27 August 2007
                                (Bill No. 36/2007 published on
                                28 August 2007)

Date of Second and Third  : 20 September 2007
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 September 2008

2. 2008 Revised Edition — Pharmacists Registration Act

Date of operation         : 31 December 2008

3. Act 1 of 2010 — Medical Registration (Amendment) Act 2010

Date of First Reading     : 19 October 2009
                                (Bill No. 22/2009 published on
                                19 October 2009)

Date of Second and Third  : 11 January 2010
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 December 2010

4. G.N. No. S 554/2016 — Pharmacists Registration Act (Amendment of
                                   Schedule) Order 2016

Date of commencement      : 1 November 2016

5. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
   (Amendments made by section 89 of the above Act)

Bill                      : 45/2017

First Reading             : 6 November 2017

Second and Third Readings : 8 January 2018

Commencement              : 1 April 2018

6. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019

Date of First Reading     : 7 October 2019
                                (Bill No. 32/2019)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                          ii

Date of Second and Third  : 5 November 2019
Readings

Date of commencement      : 2 January 2021

7. 2020 Revised Edition — Pharmacists Registration
                                    Act 2007

Operation                 : 31 December 2021

8. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
   (Amendments made by section 223(5) of the above Act)

Bill                      : 18/2021

First Reading             : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement              : 1 April 2022

9. Act 19 of 2025 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2025

Bill                      : 9/2025

First Reading             : 22 September 2025

Second and Third Readings : 15 October 2025

Commencement              : 5 December 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
.                                 iii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
      COMPARATIVE TABLE

PHARMACISTS REGISTRATION
               ACT 2007

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2008 Ed.
—                          11—(2) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
11—(2)
                              (3)
   (3)                        (4)
—                             (5) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
                              (6)
   (4)                     38—(2)
38—(2) and (3)                (3)
                              (4)
   (4)                     40—(10)
   (5)                        (11)
40—(10) and (11)           63—(5) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
   (12)                    65—(2)
—                             (3)
65—(2) and (3)                (4)
   (4)                        (5)
   (5)                     75—(1)
   (6)                        (2)
[Omitted as spent]            (3)
[Omitted as spent]            (4)
[Omitted as spent]            (5)
75—(1)                        (6)
   (2)                        (7)
[Omitted as spent]            (8)
   (3)
   (4)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                 2020 Ed.  ii         2008 Ed.
   (5)
   (6)                          (9)
[Omitted as spent]              (10)
   (7)                          (11)
                                (12)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
