         ADOPTION OF CHILDREN ACT 2022

         (No. 20 of 2022)

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
         General interpretation
     1.  Meaning of “adoption agency”
     2.  Eligibility to make adoption application
     3.  Further provisions on eligibility to adopt a child
     4.  Child eligible for adoption
     5.  Meaning of “suitable to adopt”
     6.  Guardian-in-Adoption
     7.  Authorised officers
     8.  Authorised adoption agencies
     9.
   10.

                                        PART 2

            PRE-ADOPTION APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS

               Division 1 — Summary of minimal requirements

11. Pre-adoption application requirements

                               Division 2 — Briefings

12. Pre-adoption briefing
13. Briefing on disclosure of adoptive status

                 Division 3 — Adoption suitability assessments

14. Requirement for favourable ASA
15. Variation or revocation of ASA
16. Application under section 15 by surviving applicant
17. Appeal to Guardian-in-Adoption
18. Appeal under section 17 by surviving applicant
19. Powers to direct and request assessments, etc., for purposes of

         ASA
20. Validity period of ASA

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
2  NO. 20 OF 2022

Section
   21. Regulations relating to ASA

                     Division 4 — Duty to notify material changes

   22. Duty to notify material changes in circumstances

                                            PART 3

                              ADOPTION PROCEEDINGS

               Division 1 — Power of court to make adoption orders

   23. Power to make adoption orders

                           Division 2 — Adoption applications

   24. Form and contents of adoption application
   25. Service of adoption application
   26. Consent of relevant persons

                    Division 3 — Role of Guardian-in-Adoption in
                                   adoption proceedings

   27. Duty of Guardian-in-Adoption to file affidavit
   28. Significance of Guardian-in-Adoption’s affidavit
   29. Powers of Guardian-in-Adoption, etc., to direct and request

            persons to undergo assessments, etc.
   30. Duty of applicants to notify Guardian-in-Adoption of material

            changes in circumstances

             Division 4 — Court’s powers during adoption proceedings

   31. Power to make interim orders
   32. Power to require provision, and to empower making of

            decisions, for child
   33. Power to draw adverse inferences, etc., for failure to notify, etc.
   34. Power to order assessments and submission of further

            information and documents
   35. Power to order mediation, counselling, etc.

             Division 5 — Dispensation of consent of relevant persons

   36. Interpretation of this Division
   37. Grounds for dispensation of consent of relevant persons
   38. Meaning of “ill‑treatment”
   39. When does relevant person knowingly permit another person to

            cause grievous hurt to or ill-treat child
   40. When is child in need of care or protection

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                                      3

Section
   41. Circumstances of emotional or psychological abuse

           Division 6 — Matters at conclusion of adoption proceedings

   42. Matters with respect to which court to be satisfied before making
            adoption order

   43. Power to order removal and placement of child upon
            unsuccessful adoption application

                                            PART 4

                              POST-ADOPTION MATTERS

   44. Matters relating to registration or re-registration of births of
            adopted children

   45. Power to order persons to undergo mediation, counselling, etc.,
            post adoption proceedings

   46. Effect of adoption order on status of adopted child vis‑à‑vis
            adoptive parents and on citizenship

   47. Effect of adoption order on property of adoptive parents and
            adopted child

                                            PART 5

              CONFIDENTIALITY OF CHILDREN INVOLVED IN
                              ADOPTION PROCEEDINGS

   48. Restriction on publication or broadcast of information or
            pictures of children involved in adoption proceedings

   49. Order to remove publication or broadcast in contravention of
            section 48

                                            PART 6

                    REGULATION OF ADOPTION PRACTICES
                                     AND PROCESSES

   50. Extra-territorial application of this Part
   51. Restriction on publication or broadcast of information or

            pictures of children for adoption, etc.
   52. Order to remove publication or broadcast in contravention of

            section 51
   53. Restricted payments to be sanctioned by court
   54. Publication of amounts to be paid to or through adoption

            agencies, etc.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
4        NO. 20 OF 2022

Section  Prohibition against payments and rewards for non-permitted
   55.   purposes
         Use of fraud, duress, undue influence or other improper means to
   56.   obtain consent to adoption, etc.
         Restriction on placement of child, etc.
   57.   Non-application of section 57 to transitional cases
   58.   Offence of providing false information, etc., in connection with
   59.   ASA or Guardian-in-Adoption’s affidavit
         Duty to report offences to Guardian-in-Adoption
   60.

                                           PART 7

                                     ENFORCEMENT

   61. Powers of entry, etc., for enforcement purpose
   62. Equipment
   63. Disposal of documents or thing
   64. Offence of obstruction
   65. Offence of providing false information, etc., in connection with

            this Part
   66. Notice to attend court

                                           PART 8

                                GENERAL PROVISIONS

   67. Offences by corporations, unincorporated associations or
            partnerships

   68. Composition of offences
   69. Contempt of court orders under this Act
   70. Service of documents
   71. Disclosure of information to and by Guardian-in-Adoption or

            authorised adoption agency, etc.
   72. Protection of persons giving information to authorities
   73. Protection from personal liability
   74. Family Justice Rules
   75. Power to make regulations
   76. Repeal of Adoption of Children Act 1939

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
         ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                           5

         PART 9

         RELATED AND CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS AND
                 SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

Section  Consequential amendment to Child Development Co‑Savings
   77.   Act 2001
         Related amendment to Children and Young Persons Act 1993
   78.   Consequential amendment to Civil Law Act 1909
   79.   Consequential amendment to Family Justice Act 2014
   80.   Related and consequential amendment to Mental Capacity
   81.   Act 2008
         Consequential amendments to Registration of Births and Deaths
   82.   Act 2021
         Related and consequential amendments to Women’s
   83.   Charter 1961
         Consequential amendment to Work Injury Compensation
   84.   Act 2019
         Saving and transitional provisions
   85.

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
6  NO. 20 OF 2022

An Act to repeal and re-enact the Adoption of Children Act 1939 with
  amendments to provide for the process of the adoption of children
  and the regulation of practices in the adoption sector and connected
  matters, and to make related and consequential amendments to
  certain other written laws.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       7

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the Adoption of Children Act 2022 and comes into
operation on a date that the Minister appoints by notification in the
Gazette.

General interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “adopted child” means an individual (whether below 21 years of
         age or otherwise) in respect of whom an adoption order has
         been made;

      “adoption application” means an application made under this
         Act for an adoption order;

      “adoption order” means an order under section 23(1);

      “adoption proceedings” means the proceedings in court arising
         from an adoption application, including any appeal against
         any decision made by the court on the adoption application;

      “adoption-related service” means any of the following:

              (a) any service provided by an adoption agency (whether
                   directly or indirectly through one or more
                   intermediaries) in the course of making
                   arrangements for or on behalf of any person for the
                   adoption in Singapore by that person of a child;

              (b) the conduct of a pre-adoption briefing described in
                   section 12;

              (c) the conduct of a disclosure of adoptive status briefing
                   described in section 13;

              (d) the conduct of any assessment by an authorised
                   adoption agency for the purposes of preparing an
                   ASA;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
8  NO. 20 OF 2022

           (e) any other service provided by an adoption agency in
                connection with the adoption or proposed adoption of
                a child that may be prescribed by the regulations;

   “Adoption Suitability Assessment” or “ASA” means an
      Adoption Suitability Assessment issued by an authorised
      adoption agency under section 14;

   “adoptive parent” means an individual who adopts a child under
      an adoption order and, in the case of an adoption order made
      in favour of 2 applicants jointly, means either of the
      applicants;

   “applicant” means an individual who makes an adoption
      application, whether solely or jointly, and for the purposes
      of Part 2, includes an individual who intends to make an
      adoption application; and “applicants” means both applicants
      in the case of a joint adoption application mentioned in
      section 4;

   “authorised adoption agency” means an adoption agency or a
      fostering agency that is authorised by the Minister under
      section 10;

   “authorised officer” means an individual who is appointed under
      section 9 to be an authorised officer for the purposes of this
      Act;

   “child”, if age rather than descendancy is relevant, means an
      individual below 21 years of age;

   “child before the court” means the child in respect of whom an
      adoption application is made;

   “child in state care” means a child who is the subject of any of
      the following orders that is in force:

           (a) an order under section 54(1)(b) or 56(2)(a) of the
                Children and Young Persons Act 1993;

           (b) an order under section 56(2)(a) of the Children and
                Young Persons Act 1993 as applied by section 57 of
                that Act;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       9

“court” means the Family Division of the High Court, a Family
   Court, or any court hearing an appeal against an order or a
   decision of the Family Division of the High Court or a Family
   Court, except in sections 48, 51, 66, 69, 70, 72 and 73 where
   “court” means a court of competent jurisdiction;

“Director-General” means the Director‑General of Social
   Welfare or any public officer or other person authorised
   under section 3(3) of the Children and Young Persons
   Act 1993 to perform any of the duties or exercise any powers
   of the Director‑General under that Act;

“father”, in relation to an illegitimate child, means the biological
   father;

“fostering agency” means a person who enters into an agreement
   with the Government to provide services in relation to the
   fostering of children, including overseeing one or more
   fostering arrangements;

“Guardian-in-Adoption” means the Guardian‑in‑Adoption
   appointed under section 8;

“Guardian-in-Adoption’s affidavit” means the affidavit required
   to be filed by the Guardian‑in‑Adoption under section 27;

“Home Study Report” or “HSR” means a report —

        (a) applied for by 2 individuals or an individual before
             the date of commencement of section 11;

        (b) issued before, on or after that date by an adoption
             agency accredited by the Ministry of Social and
             Family Development for the purposes of conducting
             assessments as to the suitability of persons to adopt a
             child; and

        (c) containing an assessment as to whether the
             2 individuals or individual (as the case may be)
             issued with the report are or is suitable to adopt a
             child;

“interim order” means an order under section 31;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
10  NO. 20 OF 2022

      “parent”, in relation to an illegitimate child, does not include the
         biological father;

      “protector” means any public officer appointed or other person
         authorised under section 3(3) of the Children and Young
         Persons Act 1993 to perform any of the duties or exercise any
         of the powers of a protector under that Act;

      “registered medical practitioner” means a medical practitioner
         registered under the Medical Registration Act 1997, and
         includes a dentist registered under the Dental Registration
         Act 1999;

      “regulations” means the regulations made under section 75;

      “relevant person”, in relation to a child, or a protected person
         mentioned in Part 5, means any person who —

              (a) is a parent or guardian of the child or protected
                   person;

              (b) has actual custody of the child or protected person; or

              (c) is liable to contribute to the support of the child or
                   protected person;

      “repealed Act” means the Adoption of Children Act 1939;

      “reward” means any benefit, whether monetary or otherwise.

 (2) In this Act, a reference to a valid and favourable HSR is a
reference to an HSR —

       (a) containing an assessment by the adoption agency that
            issued the HSR that the 2 individuals or individual (as the
            case may be) issued with the HSR are or is suitable to adopt
            a child, whether unequivocally or subject to the resolution
            of any one or more issues contained in the HSR; and

       (b) the validity period for which as stated in the HSR (subject
            to any extension of the period by a duly authorised officer
            of the Ministry of Social and Family Development) has not
            expired.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       11

 (3) In this Act —

       (a) a reference to a medical assessment is a reference to an
            assessment by a registered medical practitioner; and

       (b) a reference to a psychiatric assessment is a reference to an
            assessment by a medical practitioner who is registered as a
            psychiatrist in the Register of Specialists under the
            Medical Registration Act 1997.

 (4) For the purposes of this Act, an individual (A) is a relative of
another individual (B) if A is the spouse or a former spouse, or a
parent or step‑parent, father-in-law, mother‑in‑law, brother or
stepbrother, sister or stepsister, child (including an adopted child),
stepson, stepdaughter, grandparent or step‑grandparent, grandchild or
step‑grandchild, uncle or step‑uncle, aunt or step‑aunt, nephew or
step‑nephew, or niece or step‑niece, of B.

 (5) For the purposes of this Act —

       (a) adoption proceedings arising from an adoption application
            are concluded when —

               (i) the court has made an order that finally disposes of
                   the adoption application; and

              (ii) no application for an appeal against that order, or an
                   application for permission to make such an appeal
                   (if required under the law), has been made after the
                   expiry of the time allowed under the law for the
                   making of such an appeal;

       (b) adoption proceedings arising from an adoption application
            are pending if the adoption proceedings are not concluded;
            and

       (c) an interim order is not an order that finally disposes of an
            adoption application.

Meaning of “adoption agency”

 3.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, an adoption agency is any
person that carries on the business (whether for profit or not) of
making arrangements for or on behalf of any other person for the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
12  NO. 20 OF 2022

adoption in Singapore by that other person of a child, but does not
include a fostering agency or any other person that may be prescribed
by the regulations.

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a person (A) carries on the business
(whether for profit or not) of making arrangements for or on behalf of
another person (B) for the adoption by B of a child under the Act,
whether or not —

       (a) B makes an adoption application in respect of the child;

       (b) the arrangements are accompanied by any other service to
            B before or after the conclusion of adoption proceedings
            arising from an adoption application made by B in respect
            of the child; or

       (c) A also carries on the business (whether for profit or not) of
            providing any other service.

 (3) In this section, a reference to the making of arrangements for or
on behalf of a person (A) for the adoption of a child by A includes a
reference to any of the following:

       (a) informing A about the process of adoption in Singapore,
            including under the repealed Act;

       (b) informing A about the eligibility criteria for an adoption
            order, or the parenting of an adopted child, including under
            the repealed Act;

       (c) arranging for A to undergo the process for obtaining an
            ASA;

       (d) conducting an assessment of A’s suitability to adopt for the
            purpose of issuing an ASA to A;

       (e) finding a child for whom an adoptive parent is being
            sought, on behalf of A;

        (f) obtaining the agreement of any relevant person of a child to
            seek an adoptive parent for the child (whether directly or
            indirectly through one or more intermediaries), with a view
            to the child’s adoption by A;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       13

       (g) transferring (whether directly or indirectly through one or
            more intermediaries) the physical custody of a child, or the
            custody or care and control of a child, to A with a view to
            the child’s adoption by A;

       (h) obtaining, on behalf of A, the consent required under
            section 26 of any relevant person of a child for the adoption
            of the child by A, whether directly or indirectly through one
            or more intermediaries;

        (i) providing any service to A after an adoption order in
            respect of a child has been made in favour of A to support A
            in the parenting of the child.

Eligibility to make adoption application

 4.—(1) Subject to section 5, an adoption application may only be
made by —

       (a) 2 individuals married to each other —

               (i) in Singapore under the Administration of Muslim
                   Law Act 1966 or the Women’s Charter 1961; or

              (ii) outside Singapore under the law of another country
                   or territory, in circumstances where the marriage is
                   recognised as valid under that law, and the
                   individuals would be taken to be lawfully married
                   under written law in Singapore if the marriage had
                   taken place in Singapore,

       (a) where —

             (iii) both the individuals are habitually resident in
                   Singapore; and

             (iv) either or both the individuals are citizens of
                   Singapore, or both individuals are permanent
                   residents of Singapore; or

       (b) an individual who is —

               (i) habitually resident in Singapore; and

              (ii) either a citizen or permanent resident of Singapore.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
14  NO. 20 OF 2022

 (2) An adoption application may only be made —

       (a) jointly by the 2 individuals mentioned in subsection (1)(a);
            or

       (b) solely by an individual mentioned in subsection (1)(b) who
            is not an individual mentioned in subsection (1)(a).

 (3) The requirements in subsection (1)(a)(iii) and (iv) and (b) do not
apply to any adoption application made, and that is supported by a
valid and favourable HSR held, by 2 individuals jointly or by an
individual solely.

Further provisions on eligibility to adopt a child

 5.—(1) Unless subsection (2) applies, the applicants or applicant
are not or is not eligible to adopt a child in the following
circumstances:

       (a) in the case of an adoption application by 2 applicants
            jointly —

               (i) either applicant is below 25 years of age; or

              (ii) either applicant is less than 21 years older than the
                   child before the court;

       (b) in the case of an adoption application solely by an
            applicant —

               (i) the sole applicant is below 25 years of age; or

              (ii) the sole applicant is less than 21 years older than the
                   child before the court;

       (c) the sole applicant is a male and the child before the court is
            a female;

       (d) either applicant (in the case of a joint application) or the
            sole applicant (in the case of a sole application) has been
            convicted of an offence prescribed by the regulations —

               (i) whether the offence is committed before, on or after
                   the date that the offence is prescribed; and

              (ii) whether the offence is committed before, on or after
                   the date of commencement of this section.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       15

 (2) Despite the applicants or applicant being ineligible under
subsection (1) or section 4, the court may make an adoption order
on an adoption application in any of the following circumstances:

       (a) in a case where subsection (1)(a) or (b) applies — either of
            the joint applicants or the sole applicant (as the case may
            be) and the child are within the prohibited degrees of
            consanguinity;

       (b) in a case where one of the 2 individuals in a marriage
            described in section 4(1)(a)(i) or (ii) wishes to make an
            adoption application solely —

               (i) the individual’s spouse consents to the sole
                   application; or

              (ii) the consent of the individual’s spouse is to be
                   dispensed with by the court because —

                    (A) he or she cannot be found or is incapable of
                          giving such consent; or

                     (B) the individual and his or her spouse have
                          separated and are living apart and the
                          separation is likely to be permanent;

       (c) in a case where subsection (1) applies or the requirements
            in section 4(1)(a)(iii) or (iv) or (b) are not met — there are
            special circumstances which justify as an exceptional
            measure the making of an adoption order.

 (3) In deciding whether there are special circumstances which
justify as an exceptional measure the making of an adoption order
under subsection (2)(c), the court is to give due consideration as to
whether the Guardian‑in‑Adoption supports the making of the
adoption order.

Child eligible for adoption

 6.—(1) An adoption order may only be made in respect of a child
who is resident in Singapore.

 (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), a child is deemed not to be
resident in Singapore —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
16  NO. 20 OF 2022

       (a) if the child is authorised or permitted to remain in
            Singapore by virtue of a visit pass, a student’s pass or a
            special pass issued by the Controller of Immigration,
            irrespective of the number of occasions the pass is issued to
            the child or renewed; or

       (b) if the child’s presence in Singapore is unlawful under the
            provisions of the Immigration Act 1959 or the regulations
            made under that Act.

 (3) An adoption order may not be made in respect of any child who
is or has been married.

Meaning of “suitable to adopt”

 7. In considering whether joint or sole applicants are suitable to
adopt a child, an authorised adoption agency, the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption and the court determining the adoption
application must assess the applicants’ suitability to adopt by
reference (but not limited) to —

       (a) the factors prescribed by the regulations; and

       (b) any applicable ruling, decision or judicial pronouncement
            by any court in relation to a matter involving an adoption of
            a child.

Guardian-in-Adoption

 8.—(1) The Minister may appoint a public officer to be the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption.

 (2) The Guardian-in-Adoption has the general duty of safeguarding
the welfare of any child for whom an adoptive parent is being sought,
including a child before the court.

 (3) The Guardian-in-Adoption is to exercise any of his or her
powers or perform his or her duties under this Act subject to the
general or special directions of the Minister.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), the Guardian‑in‑Adoption may
delegate the exercise or performance of all or any of the powers
conferred or duties imposed on the Guardian‑in‑Adoption by or under
this Act to any public officer or (with the written approval of the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       17

Minister) to any other individual, except the power of delegation
under this subsection and the power of appointment under section 9.

 (5) Any delegation under subsection (4) may be general or in a
particular case and may be subject to any conditions or limitations
specified by the Guardian‑in‑Adoption.

 (6) Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference in this Act
to the Guardian‑in‑Adoption includes a reference to a delegate under
subsection (4).

 (7) A delegate under subsection (4) is taken to be a public servant
within the meaning of the Penal Code 1871 when exercising a power
under this Act or in the course of performing a duty as the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption.

Authorised officers

 9.—(1) The Guardian-in-Adoption may appoint any public officer
with suitable qualifications or experience, or any individual
belonging to such class of individuals (with suitable qualifications
or experience) as may be prescribed by the regulations, as an
authorised officer under this Act.

 (2) Any appointment under subsection (1) may be subject to any
conditions or limitations specified by the Guardian‑in‑Adoption.

 (3) The Guardian-in-Adoption must issue to each authorised officer
an identification card, whether in physical or digital form.

 (4) If asked to do so, an authorised officer must produce his or her
identification card for inspection before exercising a power under this
Act.

 (5) Every authorised officer whose appointment as such ceases
must return to the Guardian‑in‑Adoption any physical identification
card issued to him or her under subsection (3).

 (6) An authorised officer is taken to be a public servant within the
meaning of the Penal Code 1871 when exercising a power under this
Act or in the course of performing a duty as an authorised officer.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
18  NO. 20 OF 2022

Authorised adoption agencies

 10.—(1) The Minister may, with the agreement of an adoption
agency or a fostering agency and subject to any terms that the
Minister may specify, authorise the adoption agency or fostering
agency as an authorised adoption agency for the purposes of this Act.

 (2) The authorised adoption agency must comply with any
directives issued by the Guardian-in-Adoption.

 (3) Subject to subsections (4) and (5) and the regulations, an
authorisation under subsection (1) is for the period specified by the
Minister.

 (4) Subject to the regulations, the Minister may, with the agreement
of an authorised adoption agency, extend the authorisation of the
authorised adoption agency for one or more times, by the period
specified by the Minister each time.

 (5) The Minister may cancel the authorisation of an authorised
adoption agency before the expiry of the authorisation.

 (6) Despite the expiry of the authorisation of an adoption agency or
a fostering agency, the Minister may allow the adoption agency or
fostering agency to exercise a power, or direct the adoption agency or
fostering agency to carry out any function or duty, under this Act in
any particular case or generally, and on any terms that the Minister
may specify, in which case any reference in this Act to an authorised
adoption agency includes a reference to that adoption agency or
fostering agency.

 (7) The Guardian-in-Adoption must cause to be published on the
Internet website prescribed by the regulations the name, Unique
Entity Number (UEN), and address of the place of business or the
registered address, of every authorised adoption agency.

 (8) The regulations may provide for matters relating to the
authorisation of adoption agencies and fostering agencies and
authorised adoption agencies, including the following:

       (a) the criteria and procedure for an authorisation under
            subsection (1);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       19

(b) the criteria and procedure for the extension of an
     authorisation under subsection (4);

(c) the duration of an authorisation under subsection (1) and
     the maximum period of each extension under
     subsection (4);

(d) the grounds and procedure for the cancellation of an
     authorisation under subsection (5);

(e) the keeping and retention of records and documents
     produced or received by authorised adoption agencies in
     the course of the performance or discharge of their
     functions and duties under this Act, the destruction or
     disposal of those records and documents, and the transfer
     of those records and documents kept and retained by an
     adoption agency or a fostering agency upon the
     cancellation of the adoption agency’s or fostering
     agency’s authorisation.

                                    PART 2
        PRE-ADOPTION APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS

           Division 1 — Summary of minimal requirements
Pre-adoption application requirements

 11. An adoption application may be made by an individual (whether
jointly with his or her spouse or solely) only if he or she —

       (a) has attended a pre-adoption briefing described in
            section 12 within the last 3 years;

       (b) has attended a disclosure of adoptive status briefing
            described in section 13 within the last 3 years; and

       (c) holds a valid and favourable ASA described in section 14.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
20  NO. 20 OF 2022

                           Division 2 — Briefings

Pre-adoption briefing

 12. A pre-adoption briefing is a briefing conducted by an authorised
adoption agency which informs the attendees —

       (a) about the process of adoption in Singapore and the
            eligibility criteria for an adoption order;

       (b) that the rights, duties, obligations and liabilities of the
            parent or parents or guardian or guardians of a child vest in
            and become exercisable by and enforceable against the
            adoptive parent upon the making of an adoption order in
            respect of the child;

       (c) about the parenting of a child who has been adopted,
            including understanding the unique needs of such a child;
            and

       (d) about any other matters that the authorised adoption
            agency may include in the briefing relating to adoption
            in Singapore.

Briefing on disclosure of adoptive status

 13. A disclosure of adoptive status briefing is a briefing conducted
by an authorised adoption agency to —

       (a) convey to any individual who desires to adopt a child the
            benefits of disclosing to his or her adopted child the child’s
            adoptive status;

       (b) equip the individual with the knowledge and skills to make
            the disclosure in a manner that ensures the welfare of his or
            her adopted child; and

       (c) encourage the individual to —

               (i) make the disclosure as early as possible; and

              (ii) explain to his or her adopted child the meaning of
                   adoption in a manner that the child can understand.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       21

             Division 3 — Adoption suitability assessments

Requirement for favourable ASA

 14.—(1) A favourable ASA is —

       (a) in the case of a joint adoption application — an ASA issued
            by an authorised adoption agency to the applicants jointly
            and containing an assessment by the agency that the
            applicants are suitable to adopt a child, whether
            unequivocally or subject to the resolution of any one or
            more issues contained in the ASA; or

       (b) in the case of a sole adoption application — an ASA issued
            by an authorised adoption agency to the applicant
            containing an assessment by the agency that the
            applicant is suitable to adopt a child, whether
            unequivocally or subject to the resolution of any one or
            more issues contained in the ASA.

 (2) No application for an ASA may be made by any individual
(whether jointly with his or her spouse or solely) unless he or she
has —

       (a) resided in Singapore for a continuous period of at least one
            year immediately preceding the date of the making of the
            application for the ASA; and

       (b) attended a pre-adoption briefing described in section 12.

 (3) A valid ASA is an ASA —

       (a) that is issued in the form specified by the
            Guardian‑in‑Adoption for the purposes of this subsection;

       (b) that contains all the information specified by the
            Guardian‑in‑Adoption for the purposes of this
            subsection; and

       (c) the validity period (as determined according to section 20)
            for which has not been exceeded.

 (4) An authorised adoption agency that issues an ASA must submit
a copy of the ASA to the Guardian‑in‑Adoption on the day that the
ASA is issued.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
22  NO. 20 OF 2022

Variation or revocation of ASA

 15.—(1) An authorised adoption agency that issued an ASA may,
upon an application by the applicants or applicant (as the case may
be) issued with the ASA, or on its own motion, vary or revoke the
ASA if —

       (a) no adoption application has been made on the basis of the
            ASA; and

       (b) any of the conditions in subsection (3) is met.

 (2) If no adoption application has been made on the basis of an
ASA, the Guardian‑in‑Adoption may on his or her own motion —

       (a) vary or revoke the ASA if —

               (i) any of the conditions in subsection (3) is met; or

              (ii) the Guardian-in-Adoption disagrees with the
                   assessment of the authorised adoption agency that
                   issued the ASA; or

       (b) direct the authorised adoption agency that issued the ASA
            to vary or revoke the ASA if —

               (i) any of the conditions in subsection (3) is met; or

              (ii) the Guardian‑in‑Adoption disagrees with the
                   assessment of the authorised adoption agency.

 (3) The conditions mentioned in subsections (1) and (2) are as
follows:

       (a) either or both of the applicants or the applicant (as the case
            may be) to whom the ASA was issued had made a false or
            misleading representation or provided any false or
            misleading information to the authorised adoption
            agency before the ASA was issued;

       (b) any fact or information that would have made a material
            impact on the assessment by the authorised adoption
            agency, and that was not disclosed or made known to the
            agency before the ASA was issued, is now disclosed or
            made known to the authorised adoption agency or the
            Guardian‑in‑Adoption, as the case may be;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       23

       (c) the authorised adoption agency or the
            Guardian‑in‑Adoption (as the case may be) has reason to
            believe that there has been a material change in the
            circumstances of either or both of the applicants or the
            applicant (as the case may be) issued with the ASA.

 (4) In subsection (3)(c), a reference to a material change in
circumstances is a reference to any change in circumstances that
may be prescribed by the regulations, being a change that affects or is
likely to affect the suitability of the applicants or applicant (as the
case may be) to adopt a child.

 (5) When an ASA is varied under this section, the authorised
adoption agency or the Guardian‑in‑Adoption (as the case may be)
may extend the validity of the ASA for a period specified by the
authorised adoption agency or the Guardian‑in‑Adoption, as the case
may be.

 (6) The applicants or applicant concerned must be notified of a
variation or revocation of, or a refusal to vary or revoke, an ASA
under this section and the reasons for the variation, revocation or
refusal.

Application under section 15 by surviving applicant

 16. Where an ASA was issued to joint applicants of whom one
subsequently dies —

       (a) an application for a variation or revocation of the ASA
            under section 15(1) may be made by the surviving
            applicant; and

       (b) the power to vary an ASA under section 15(1) or (2)(a) or
            to direct the variation of an ASA under section 15(2)(b)
            includes the power to vary or to direct the variation of an
            ASA from one issued jointly to the applicants to one issued
            solely to the surviving applicant.

Appeal to Guardian-in-Adoption

 17.—(1) Where the applicants or applicant to whom an ASA is
issued are or is aggrieved by —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
24  NO. 20 OF 2022

       (a) the assessment of an authorised adoption agency in the
            ASA;

       (b) the variation or revocation of the ASA under section 15(1);
            or

       (c) the refusal of the authorised adoption agency that issued
            the ASA to vary or revoke the ASA upon an application for
            a variation or revocation of the ASA under section 15(1),

the applicants (each called in this section a joint appellant) or
applicant (called in this section the appellant) may appeal to the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption in accordance with this section against the
assessment, variation, revocation or refusal.

 (2) An appeal under this section may be made only on one or more
of the following grounds:

       (a) the assessment of the authorised adoption agency in the
            ASA or the decision of the authorised adoption agency to
            vary or revoke the ASA or to refuse to vary or revoke the
            ASA (as the case may be) was —

               (i) based on a material error of fact; or

              (ii) irrational;

       (b) the authorised adoption agency took into account irrelevant
            facts or information, or failed to take into account relevant
            facts or information, in making the assessment in the ASA
            or the decision to vary or revoke the ASA or to refuse to
            vary or revoke the ASA, as the case may be.

 (3) An appeal under this section must —

       (a) be in writing;

       (b) specify the name and address of each joint appellant or the
            appellant, as the case may be;

       (c) contain a concise statement of the circumstances under
            which the appeal arises, each ground of the appeal and the
            facts and issues in the appeal;

       (d) be supported by the relevant information or documents in
            relation to each ground of the appeal; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       25

       (e) be made within —

               (i) in the case of an appeal against the assessment in an
                   ASA — 14 days after the ASA was issued;

              (ii) in the case of an appeal against the variation or
                   revocation of an ASA or the refusal to vary or revoke
                   an ASA — 14 days after the joint appellants or the
                   appellant were or was notified of the variation,
                   revocation or refusal, as the case may be; or

             (iii) in any case — any longer period that the
                   Guardian‑in‑Adoption may allow in the particular
                   case.

 (4) The Guardian-in-Adoption may require the joint appellants or
the appellant (as the case may be) to provide the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption with the information or documents
necessary for determining the appeal; and the joint appellants or
the appellant (as the case may be) must provide the information or
documents in the manner and within the period specified by the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption.

 (5) The Guardian-in-Adoption may decline to consider an appeal
under this section if —

       (a) any requirement in subsection (3) or (4) is not satisfied or
            complied with; or

       (b) an appeal was previously made under this section in
            relation to the same ASA on the same ground or grounds
            and on the same facts.

 (6) Upon considering an appeal under this section, the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption may do any or more of the following:

       (a) confirm, vary or reverse the whole or any part of the
            assessment, variation, revocation or refusal by the
            authorised adoption agency concerned;

       (b) vary or revoke the ASA concerned;

       (c) extend the validity of the ASA concerned for any period
            specified by the Guardian‑in‑Adoption.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
26  NO. 20 OF 2022

 (7) The joint appellants or the appellant concerned must be notified
of the Guardian‑in‑Adoption’s decision under subsection (6)(a) or (b)
and the reasons for the decision.

 (8) An appeal under this section does not affect the validity of any
assessment, variation, revocation or refusal to vary or revoke by an
authorised adoption agency, or prevent the taking of any action to
implement the assessment, variation, revocation or refusal, unless
directed by the Guardian‑in‑Adoption in any particular case.

Appeal under section 17 by surviving applicant

 18. Where an ASA was issued to joint applicants of whom one
subsequently dies —

       (a) an appeal under section 17 may be made by the surviving
            applicant; and

       (b) the power under section 17(6)(b) to vary an ASA includes
            the power to vary an ASA from one issued jointly to the
            applicants to one issued solely to the surviving applicant.

Powers to direct and request assessments, etc., for purposes of
ASA

 19.—(1) The powers set out in subsection (2) may be exercised by
the following persons for the corresponding purposes:

       (a) an authorised adoption agency — for the purpose of
            preparing an ASA or deciding whether to vary or revoke an
            ASA;

       (b) the Guardian-in-Adoption — for the purpose of deciding
            whether to vary or revoke an ASA or to direct an
            authorised adoption agency to vary or revoke an ASA.

 (2) The powers mentioned in subsection (1) are as follows:

       (a) to direct any joint applicant or the sole applicant (as the
            case may be) for or issued with the ASA —

               (i) to undergo any medical, psychiatric or psychological
                   assessment, or any other assessment, that is in the
                   view of the authorised adoption agency or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       27

Guardian‑in‑Adoption (as the case may be), relevant
to a purpose mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b); or

(ii) to provide any document or information that the

authorised  adoption       agency                          or

Guardian‑in‑Adoption (as the case may be)

considers relevant to a purpose mentioned in

subsection (1)(a) or (b);

(b) to request any relative or member of the household of any
     joint applicant or the sole applicant (as the case may be) for
     or issued with the ASA —

(i) to undergo any medical, psychiatric or psychological
    assessment, or any other assessment that is, in the
    view of the authorised adoption agency or
    Guardian‑in‑Adoption (as the case may be),
    relevant to a purpose mentioned in
    subsection (1)(a) or (b); or

(ii) to provide any document or information that the

authorised  adoption       agency                          or

Guardian‑in‑Adoption (as the case may be)

considers relevant to a purpose mentioned in

subsection (1)(a) or (b);

(c) where the authorised adoption agency or
    Guardian‑in‑Adoption (as the case may be) has reason to
    believe that a particular person can provide any
    information or document that is relevant to a purpose
    mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b) (as the case may
    be) — to request that person to provide the information or
    document.

 (3) Where any joint applicant or the sole applicant for or issued with
an ASA fails to comply with any direction given by an authorised
adoption agency under subsection (2)(a) for a purpose mentioned in
subsection (1)(a), the authorised adoption agency may —

(a) draw any adverse inference against the joint applicants or
     sole applicant when preparing the ASA or deciding
     whether to vary or revoke the ASA, as the case may be; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
28  NO. 20 OF 2022

       (b) solely on the basis of the failure —

               (i) issue an unfavourable ASA;

              (ii) in a case where the ASA is favourable at the time of
                   issue — vary or revoke the ASA; or

             (iii) in a case where the ASA is unfavourable at the time
                   of issue — decline to vary the ASA.

 (4) Where any joint applicant or the sole applicant (as the case may
be) issued with an ASA fails to comply with any direction given by
the Guardian‑in‑Adoption under subsection (2)(a) for a purpose
mentioned in subsection (1)(b), the Guardian‑in‑Adoption may —

       (a) draw any adverse inference against the joint applicants or
            sole applicant (as the case may be) when deciding whether
            to vary or revoke the ASA or whether to direct the
            authorised adoption agency to vary or revoke the ASA; or

       (b) solely on the basis of the failure —

               (i) in a case where the ASA is favourable at the time of
                   issue — vary or revoke the ASA or direct the
                   authorised adoption agency to vary or revoke the
                   ASA; or

              (ii) in a case where the ASA is unfavourable at the time
                   of issue — decline to vary the ASA or to direct the
                   authorised adoption agency to vary the ASA.

 (5) An authorised adoption agency and the Guardian‑in‑Adoption
are not personally liable, and the Government is not liable, for —

       (a) the cost of any assessment directed or requested under
            subsection (2); or

       (b) the cost of obtaining or providing any report of any
            assessment directed or requested under subsection (2).

 (6) An individual cannot rely on —

       (a) the common law privilege against self‑incrimination or
            exposure to the imposition of a penalty; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       29

       (b) any rule of law relating to legal professional privilege or
            any other privilege, or the public interest,

to refuse to provide any information or document directed to be
provided under subsection (2)(a)(ii).

 (7) For the purposes of this section, an unfavourable ASA is an
ASA that is not a favourable ASA according to section 14(1).

Validity period of ASA

 20.—(1) Subject to this section, an ASA is valid for a period of
2 years starting on the date that it is issued.

 (2) Where the validity of an ASA is extended under section 15(5) or
17(6)(c), the ASA is valid till the end of the period by which it is so
extended.

 (3) Despite anything in this Division —

       (a) the Guardian-in-Adoption may by notice to any person
            issued with an ASA, extend the validity of the ASA for the
            period and from the date specified by the
            Guardian‑in‑Adoption in the notice; and

       (b) upon the extension, the ASA is valid till the end of the
            period by which it is so extended.

Regulations relating to ASA

 21. Regulations made under section 75 may provide for all or any of
the following matters relating to an ASA:

       (a) the form and manner of an application for an ASA;

       (b) the information and documents to accompany an
            application for an ASA;

       (c) the form of an ASA and the information that must be
            included in an ASA;

       (d) the procedure for a variation or revocation of an ASA;

       (e) the procedure for an appeal to the Guardian‑in‑Adoption
            under section 17.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
30  NO. 20 OF 2022

             Division 4 — Duty to notify material changes

Duty to notify material changes in circumstances

 22.—(1) During the relevant period, the joint applicants (or either
of them) or sole applicant for an ASA must, as soon as practicable
after becoming aware of a material change in circumstances that has
taken place during the relevant period, notify the material change to
the authorised adoption agency to which the application for the ASA
was made.

 (2) During the relevant period, the joint applicants (or either of
them) or sole applicant issued with an ASA must, as soon as
practicable after becoming aware of a material change in
circumstances that has taken place at any time after the making of
the application for the ASA, notify the material change to the
authorised adoption agency that issued the ASA and the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption.

 (3) A notification required under subsection (1) or (2) must be in
writing and in the form for the time being specified by the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption.

 (4) In this section —

       (a) “relevant period” —

               (i) in relation to subsection (1) — means the period
                   starting on the day of the making of an application
                   for an ASA and ending on the day immediately
                   preceding the day that it is issued; and

              (ii) in relation to subsection (2) — means the period
                   starting on the day that an ASA is issued and ending
                   on the day immediately preceding the day that an
                   adoption application is made on the basis of the
                   ASA; and

       (b) a reference to a material change in circumstances in
            subsection (1) or (2) is a reference to any change in
            circumstances that may be prescribed by the regulations,
            being a change that affects or is likely to affect the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       31

suitability of the joint applicants or sole applicant (as the
case may be) to adopt a child.

                                    PART 3

                      ADOPTION PROCEEDINGS

        Division 1 — Power of court to make adoption orders

Power to make adoption orders

 23.—(1) Upon an adoption application in respect of a child, the
court may, subject to the provisions of this Act, make an order for the
adoption of that child by the applicants jointly or the applicant solely,
as the case may be.

 (2) An adoption order may be made for the adoption of a child by
the father or mother of the child, either solely or jointly with his or her
spouse.

 (3) Except as provided in this section, no adoption order may be
made for the adoption of a child by more than one individual.

 (4) An adoption order may be made in respect of a child who has
already been the subject of an adoption order (including an adoption
order made under the repealed Act) and, upon any application for a
further adoption order, the adoptive parents or adoptive parent under
the adoption order last previously made are or is, if living, deemed to
be the parents or parent (as the case may be) of the child for the
purposes of this Act.

 (5) The court may impose any terms and conditions on an adoption
order that the court thinks fit and may, in particular, require the
adoptive parents or adoptive parent (as the case may be) by bond or
otherwise to make any provision for the child in respect of whom the
adoption order is made that in the opinion of the court is just and
expedient.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
32  NO. 20 OF 2022

                   Division 2 — Adoption applications

Form and contents of adoption application

 24. An adoption application —

       (a) must be in the form prescribed by the Family Justice Rules;

       (b) must be supported by an affidavit which verifies such
            statements, and to which is exhibited such documents, as
            may be prescribed by the Family Justice Rules; and

       (c) must seek any one or more reliefs as may be prescribed by
            the Family Justice Rules.

Service of adoption application

 25.—(1) The court must not make an adoption order on any
adoption application unless a copy each of the adoption application
and the affidavit filed in support of the application are served on
every relevant person of the child before the court no later than the
time prescribed by the Family Justice Rules.

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), the court must not make an
adoption order on any adoption application unless a copy each of the
adoption application and the affidavit filed in support of the
application are served on —

       (a) the Guardian-in-Adoption; and

       (b) if the child before the court is a child in state care — the
            Director‑General,

no later than the time prescribed by the Family Justice Rules.

 (3) Despite subsection (1), the court may dispense with the service
required on any relevant person of the child before the court.

 (4) The court may order a copy of the adoption application and its
supporting affidavit to be served on any person not mentioned in
subsections (1) and (2).

Consent of relevant persons

 26.—(1) The court must not make an adoption order in respect of
any child unless the consent of every relevant person for the adoption

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       33

of the child has either been validly obtained or dispensed with by the
court.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the consent of a relevant
person for the adoption of a child is not validly obtained unless the
consent is —

       (a) given only after such information and documents as are
            prescribed by the regulations have been provided to the
            relevant person;

       (b) in writing and in the form prescribed by the regulations;

       (c) witnessed by 2 witnesses present at the same time, each of
            whom must have attained 21 years of age;

       (d) obtained in accordance with any other procedural
            requirements prescribed by the regulations; and

       (e) attested by a solicitor, a commissioner for oaths, a notary
            public or any person for the time being authorised by law in
            the place where the document is executed to administer
            oaths.

            Division 3 — Role of Guardian-in-Adoption in
                            adoption proceedings

Duty of Guardian-in-Adoption to file affidavit

 27.—(1) Upon the making of an adoption application in respect of a
child and before the further hearing of the adoption application, the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption must make an affidavit setting out the result of
any investigation made as to —

       (a) the circumstances of the child, every relevant person of the
            child and the joint applicants or sole applicant, as the case
            may be; and

       (b) all other matters relevant to the proposed adoption.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Guardian‑in‑Adoption’s
affidavit must include the Guardian‑in‑Adoption’s assessment of the
following matters:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
34  NO. 20 OF 2022

       (a) whether the averments in the affidavit filed in support of
            the adoption application are true;

       (b) whether the joint applicants or sole applicant (as the case
            may be) are or is suitable to adopt the child;

       (c) whether there is any provision of this Act that may prohibit
            the court from making an adoption order on the
            application;

       (d) whether the consent required under section 26 of every
            relevant person of the child has been validly obtained and,
            if not, whether the consent of any relevant person ought to
            be dispensed with;

       (e) whether any payment or other reward in consideration of
            the adoption or for any adoption‑related service has been
            made by or given to, or agreed to be made by or given to,
            the joint applicants (or either of them) or sole applicant, as
            the case may be;

        (f) whether any payment or other reward mentioned in
            paragraph (e) ought to be sanctioned by the court;

       (g) if the child is of suitable age and maturity — the child’s
            wishes in relation to the proposed adoption;

       (h) whether an adoption order, if made, will be for the welfare
            of the child;

        (i) whether an adoption order ought to be made in the
            circumstances;

        (j) any other matter, as may be prescribed by the Family
            Justice Rules, which may assist the court in determining
            whether an adoption order ought to be made.

 (3) In the case of an adoption application in respect of a child in
state care, the Guardian‑in‑Adoption may request the
Director‑General or a protector who is familiar with the
circumstances of the child to provide to the Guardian‑in‑Adoption
a report setting out —

       (a) the circumstances that led to the child being in state care;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       35

       (b) an update on the progress of the child’s physical, mental,
            social and psychological development while in the care of
            the joint applicants or sole applicant, as the case may be;

       (c) what the Director-General or protector (as the case may be)
            understands to be the views of every relevant person of the
            child concerning the proposed adoption of the child; and

       (d) the views of the Director-General or protector (as the case
            may be) on whether the consent required under section 26
            of any relevant person of the child ought to be dispensed
            with.

 (4) Where the Director-General or a protector provides a report
requested by the Guardian‑in‑Adoption under subsection (3), the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption must take into account the contents of the
report when preparing the Guardian‑in‑Adoption’s affidavit.

Significance of Guardian-in-Adoption’s affidavit

 28. The court must give due consideration to the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption’s affidavit in relation to an adoption
application when deciding what order or orders is or are to be
made on or in connection with the adoption application.

Powers of Guardian-in-Adoption, etc., to direct and request
persons to undergo assessments, etc.

 29.—(1) The Guardian-in-Adoption may, for the purpose of
discharging his or her duty under section 27(1) in relation to an
adoption application, do any one or more of the following:

       (a) direct the joint applicants (or either of them) or sole
            applicant (as the case may be) or any relevant person of the
            child before the court —

               (i) to undergo any medical, psychiatric or psychological
                   assessment, or any other assessment, that the
                   Guardian‑in‑Adoption considers relevant to that
                   purpose; or

              (ii) to submit to the Guardian‑in‑Adoption any
                   information or document that the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
36  NO. 20 OF 2022

                   Guardian‑in‑Adoption considers relevant to that
                   purpose;

       (b) request any relative or member of the household of the
            joint applicants (or either of them) or sole applicant, as the
            case may be —

               (i) to undergo any medical, psychiatric or psychological
                   assessment, or any other assessment, that the
                   Guardian‑in‑Adoption considers relevant to that
                   purpose; or

              (ii) to submit to the Guardian‑in‑Adoption any
                   information or document that the
                   Guardian‑in‑Adoption considers relevant to that
                   purpose;

       (c) direct the joint applicants or sole applicant (as the case may
            be) or any relevant person of the child before the court, to
            send the child for any medical, psychiatric or
            psychological assessment, or any other assessment, that
            the Guardian‑in‑Adoption considers relevant to that
            purpose;

       (d) where the Guardian-in-Adoption has reason to believe that
            a particular person can provide any information or
            document that is relevant to that purpose — request that
            person to provide the information or document.

 (2) In addition to the powers under subsection (1), the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption may, for the purpose of discharging his or
her duty under section 27(1) in relation to an adoption application,
require an authorised adoption agency to —

       (a) carry out —

               (i) any supervision or consultation of the child before
                   the court, the joint applicants (or either of them) or
                   sole applicant, as the case may be; or

              (ii) any preliminary investigation as to the circumstances
                   of the child before the court, the joint applicants (or
                   either of them) or sole applicant (as the case may be)

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       37

                   or any relevant person of the child, including any
                   preliminary investigation as to the home
                   environment of the child while residing with the
                   joint applicants (or either of them) or sole applicant,
                   as the case may be; and

       (b) submit to the Guardian-in-Adoption a report of the
            supervision, consultation or preliminary investigation
            mentioned in paragraph (a) or any other information or
            document that the Guardian‑in‑Adoption considers
            relevant to that purpose.

 (3) Where an authorised adoption agency is required under
subsection (2) to carry out any supervision, consultation or
preliminary investigation —

       (a) all the powers of the Guardian‑in‑Adoption under
            subsection (1) are exercisable by the authorised adoption
            agency; and

       (b) a reference to the Guardian‑in‑Adoption in subsection (1)
            includes a reference to that authorised adoption agency.

 (4) Where the joint applicants (or either of them) or the sole
applicant (as the case may be) fail or fails to comply with any
direction under subsection (1) made by the Guardian‑in‑Adoption or
an authorised adoption agency, the Guardian‑in‑Adoption may —

       (a) draw any adverse inference against the joint applicants or
            sole applicant (as the case may be) when making an
            assessment in the Guardian‑in‑Adoption’s affidavit as to
            whether an adoption order ought to be made in the
            circumstances; or

       (b) solely on the basis of the failure, make an assessment in the
            Guardian‑in‑Adoption’s affidavit that an adoption order
            ought not to be made in the circumstances.

 (5) Where any relevant person fails to comply with any direction
given under subsection (1) by the Guardian‑in‑Adoption or an
authorised adoption agency, the Guardian‑in‑Adoption may —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
38  NO. 20 OF 2022

       (a) draw any adverse inference against the relevant person
            when making an assessment in the Guardian‑in‑Adoption’s
            affidavit as to whether the consent of the relevant person
            required under section 26 has been validly obtained or
            ought to be dispensed with; or

       (b) solely on the basis of the failure, make an assessment in the
            Guardian‑in‑Adoption’s affidavit that —

               (i) the consent of the relevant person required under
                   section 26 (if not obtained from the relevant person)
                   ought to be dispensed with; or

              (ii) the consent of the relevant person required under
                   section 26 (if obtained from the relevant person) has
                   been validly obtained.

 (6) The Guardian-in-Adoption and an authorised adoption agency
are not personally liable, and the Government is not liable, for —

       (a) the cost of any assessment directed or requested under
            subsection (1); or

       (b) the cost of obtaining or submitting any report of any
            assessment directed or requested under subsection (1).

 (7) An individual cannot rely on —

       (a) the common law privilege against self‑incrimination or
            exposure to the imposition of a penalty; or

       (b) any rule of law relating to legal professional privilege or
            any other privilege, or the public interest,

to refuse to provide any information or document directed to be
provided under subsection (1)(a)(ii).

Duty of applicants to notify Guardian-in-Adoption of material
changes in circumstances

 30.—(1) Where —

       (a) joint applicants or a sole applicant have or has filed an
            adoption application supported by an HSR or intend or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       39

            intends to file an adoption application supported by an
            HSR; and

       (b) before the date of commencement of this section, the joint
            applicants (or either of them) or sole applicant (as the case
            may be) become or becomes aware of a material change in
            circumstances that has taken place at any time after the
            making of the application for the HSR,

the joint applicants (or either of them) or sole applicant (as the case
may be) must notify the material change to the Guardian‑in‑Adoption
as soon as practicable after the date of commencement of this section
or, in any event, within 7 days after the date of filing of the adoption
application.

 (2) Where —

       (a) joint applicants or a sole applicant intend or intends to file
            an adoption application supported by an HSR; and

       (b) on or after the date of commencement of this section, the
            joint applicants (or either of them) or sole applicant (as the
            case may be) become or becomes aware of a material
            change in circumstances that has taken place at any time
            after the making of the application for the HSR,

the joint applicants (or either of them) or sole applicant (as the case
may be) must notify the material change to the Guardian‑in‑Adoption
as soon as practicable after becoming aware of the material change.

 (3) Where —

       (a) an adoption application is filed on the basis of an ASA or
            supported by an HSR;

       (b) the adoption proceedings arising from the adoption
            application are pending; and

       (c) on or after the date of commencement of this section, the
            joint applicants (or either of them) or sole applicant (as the
            case may be) become or becomes aware of a material
            change in circumstances that has taken place at any time
            after the making of the application for the ASA or HSR, as
            the case may be,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
40  NO. 20 OF 2022

the joint applicants (or either of them) or sole applicant (as the case
may be) must notify the Guardian‑in‑Adoption as soon as practicable
after becoming aware of such material change.

 (4) A notification required under subsection (1), (2) or (3) must be
in writing and in the form specified by the Guardian‑in‑Adoption.

 (5) In this section, a reference to a material change in circumstances
in subsection (1), (2) or (3) is a reference to any change in
circumstances that may be prescribed by the regulations, being a
change that affects or is likely to affect the suitability of the joint
applicants or sole applicant (as the case may be) to adopt a child.

     Division 4 — Court’s powers during adoption proceedings

Power to make interim orders

 31.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), in any adoption proceedings
before a court, the court may make an interim order giving the
custody and care and control of the child before the court to the joint
applicants or sole applicant (as the case may be) for a period not
exceeding 2 years.

 (2) An interim order under subsection (1) may be made upon any
terms as regards provision for the maintenance and education and the
supervision of the welfare of the child and otherwise that the court
thinks fit.

 (3) The court must not make an interim order under subsection (1)
unless the consent of every relevant person of the child before the
court has either been validly obtained in accordance with section 26
or dispensed with by the court.

 (4) An interim order under subsection (1) may be made in respect of
a child who has already been the subject of an adoption order
(including under the repealed Act) and, upon any application for a
further adoption order, the adoptive parents or adoptive parent (as the
case may be) under the adoption order last previously made are or is,
if living, deemed to be the parents or parent of the child for the
purposes of this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       41

Power to require provision, and to empower making of
decisions, for child

 32.—(1) The court may, for the purpose of ensuring the welfare of
the child before the court during the adoption proceedings —

       (a) require the joint applicants or sole applicant (as the case
            may be) of the adoption application to make provision by
            bond or otherwise for the child that in the opinion of the
            court is just and expedient; or

       (b) make any order or give any direction that the court thinks
            fit.

 (2) At any time during the adoption proceedings and upon the
application of the joint applicants or sole applicant (as the case may
be), the court may make an order, on any terms that the court may
specify, empowering the applicants or applicant (as the case may be)
to decide on a specific matter that does not relate to the day‑to‑day
care of a child but is ordinarily made in the course of providing care
for a child.

Power to draw adverse inferences, etc., for failure to notify, etc.

 33.—(1) The court may, on the application of the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption or on its own motion, draw any adverse
inference against the joint applicants or sole applicant (as the case
may be) of an adoption application or any relevant person of the child
before the court, or make any other order as the court thinks fit, if the
court is satisfied that —

       (a) the joint applicants (or either of them) or sole applicant (as
            the case may be) have or has failed to comply with
            section 22(1) or (2) or 30(1), (2) or (3);

       (b) before the issue of the ASA based on which the adoption
            application is made or the issue of any HSR filed in support
            of the adoption application, any fact or information that
            would have made a material impact on the assessment by
            the authorised adoption agency that was preparing the
            ASA or the adoption agency that was preparing the HSR
            (as the case may be), was not disclosed or made known to

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
42  NO. 20 OF 2022

            the agency by the joint applicants (or either of them) or sole
            applicant, as the case may be;

       (c) before the Guardian-in-Adoption’s affidavit was filed in
            court, any fact or information that would have made a
            material impact on the assessment of the
            Guardian‑in‑Adoption in the affidavit was not disclosed
            by the joint applicants (or either of them) or sole applicant
            (as the case may be) or any relevant person of the child
            before the court to the Guardian‑in‑Adoption either —

               (i) directly to the Guardian-in-Adoption; or

              (ii) through an authorised adoption agency required
                   under section 29(2) to carry out any supervision,
                   consultation or preliminary investigation in relation
                   to the adoption application; or

       (d) the joint applicants (or either of them) or sole applicant (as
            the case may be) or any relevant person of the child before
            the court have or has provided false or misleading
            information pertaining to the proposed adoption to —

               (i) the court;

              (ii) the Guardian-in-Adoption;

             (iii) the authorised adoption agency that issued the ASA
                   on which the adoption application is made or the
                   adoption agency that issued any HSR filed in support
                   of the adoption application; or

             (iv) the authorised adoption agency required under
                   section 29(2) to carry out any supervision,
                   consultation or preliminary investigation in relation
                   to the adoption application.

 (2) Where the joint applicants or sole applicant (as the case may be)
do not or does not comply with any requirement, order or direction
given under section 32(1), the court may draw any adverse inference
against the joint applicants or sole applicant (as the case may be) or
make any other order as the court thinks fit.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       43

 (3) The court may strike out an adoption application in respect of a
child if the application is not made within the period prescribed by the
regulations beginning on the first day that any joint applicant or the
sole applicant, as the case may be —

       (a) resides with the child; or

       (b) starts spending any amount of time with the child for the
            purpose of considering whether to adopt the child.

 (4) Subsection (3) does not apply if —

       (a) before the date of commencement of this section, any joint
            applicant or the sole applicant (as the case may be) is
            residing with the child, or starts spending any amount of
            time with the child for the purpose of considering whether
            to adopt the child; or

       (b) any of the circumstances set out in section 57(4) applies to
            any joint applicant or the sole applicant (as the case may
            be) and, for this purpose, a reference to a potential adopter
            in that provision is to be read as a reference to a joint
            applicant or the sole applicant, as the case may be.

Power to order assessments and submission of further
information and documents

 34.—(1) The court may, on the application of the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption or on its own motion, for any of the
purposes specified in subsection (2) —

       (a) order any person who, in the opinion of the court, is able to
            provide any information or documents that the court may
            specify, to provide the information or documents to the
            court or the Guardian‑in‑Adoption;

       (b) order the joint applicants (or either of them) or sole
            applicant (as the case may be) of an adoption application,
            or any relevant person of the child before the court, to —

               (i) undergo any medical, psychiatric or psychological
                   assessment, or other assessment, that the court thinks
                   necessary;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
44  NO. 20 OF 2022

              (ii) send the child before the court to undergo any
                   medical, psychiatric or psychological assessment, or
                   other assessment, that the court thinks necessary; or

             (iii) render any assistance to the court that the court
                   thinks necessary; or

       (c) make any order or give any other direction as the court
            thinks fit.

 (2) The purposes mentioned in subsection (1) are as follows:

       (a) to obtain any information as to the family background,
            general conduct, home environment, school record,
            medical history and state of development of the child,
            that may enable the court to deal with the adoption
            application with regard to the welfare of the child;

       (b) to determine whether the consent required under section 26
            of any relevant person of the child has been validly
            obtained or ought to be dispensed with;

       (c) to determine whether the joint applicants or sole applicant
            (as the case may be) are or is suitable to adopt the child.

 (3) Unless the court orders otherwise, the costs of and incidental to
any assessment required by the court under subsection (1) must be
borne by —

       (a) in the case of an assessment required of any joint applicant,
            the sole applicant or the child before the court — the joint
            applicants or sole applicant, as the case may be; or

       (b) in the case of an assessment required of any relevant
            person of the child before the court — the relevant person.

 (4) Any report of an assessment required to be submitted to the
court under subsection (1) may be received and considered by the
court without being read aloud.

 (5) Where the joint applicants (or either of them) or sole applicant
(as the case may be) fail or fails to comply with any order of the court
under subsection (1), the court may draw any adverse inference
against the joint applicants or sole applicant, as the case may be.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       45

 (6) Where any relevant person of the child before the court fails to
comply with any order of the court under subsection (1), the court
may draw any adverse inference against the relevant person when
deciding whether the consent of the relevant person required under
section 26 has been validly obtained or ought to be dispensed with.

 (7) Despite the provisions of the Administration of Justice
(Protection) Act 2016, failure to comply with any order given
under subsection (1) is not a contempt of court.

 (8) If any order under subsection (1) is not complied with, the court
may —

       (a) stay the adoption proceedings until the order has been
            complied with;

       (b) order any person responsible for the non‑compliance to
            pay the costs of the adoption proceedings; or

       (c) make any other order as the court thinks fit.

Power to order mediation, counselling, etc.

 35.—(1) At any time during any adoption proceedings, the court
may, on the application of the Guardian‑in‑Adoption or on its own
motion, make an order requiring the joint applicants (or either of
them) or sole applicant (as the case may be), any relevant person of
the child before the court, or the child, to undergo mediation,
counselling, psychotherapy or other assessment, programme or
treatment or to partake in any activity that the court thinks is
beneficial for achieving any of the following:

       (a) in the case of a contested adoption application — an
            amicable resolution of any issue arising from the
            application;

       (b) in any case —

               (i) enhancing, promoting or protecting the physical,
                   mental, social or psychological wellbeing or safety
                   of the child before the court; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
46  NO. 20 OF 2022

              (ii) resolving any relationship problem —

                    (A) between the joint applicants (or either of them)
                          or sole applicant (as the case may be) and the
                          child;

                     (B) between the joint applicants (or either of them)
                          or sole applicant (as the case may be) and any
                          relevant person of the child; or

                     (C) between the child and any relevant person of
                          the child.

 (2) In making an order under subsection (1), the court may require
the joint applicants or sole applicant (as the case may be) or the
relevant person to enter into a bond to comply with the order.

 (3) Despite the provisions of the Administration of Justice
(Protection) Act 2016, failure to comply with any order given
under subsection (1) is not a contempt of court.

 (4) If any order under subsection (1) is not complied with, the court
may —

       (a) stay the adoption proceedings until the order has been
            complied with;

       (b) order any person responsible for the non‑compliance to
            pay the costs of the adoption proceedings; or

       (c) make any other order as the court thinks fit.

      Division 5 — Dispensation of consent of relevant persons

Interpretation of this Division

 36. In this Division —

      “emotional harm”, in relation to a child, means any serious
         impairment to the growth, development, or behavioural,
         cognitive or affective functioning of the child, and
         includes —

              (a) delayed mental and physical development of the
                   child;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       47

              (b) a child assessed by the Director‑General or a
                   protector to be of danger to himself or herself or to
                   other persons;

              (c) a child assessed by the Director‑General or a
                   protector to be severely withdrawn, anxious or
                   depressed; and

              (d) a child diagnosed by a registered medical practitioner
                   as having a mental health condition such as
                   post‑traumatic stress disorder, anxiety, depression
                   or psychosomatic disorder;

      “grievous hurt” has the meaning given by section 320 of the
         Penal Code 1871;

      “relevant offence” means —

              (a) any offence under Part 2 of the Children and Young
                   Persons Act 1993;

              (b) any offence under Chapter 16 of the Penal
                   Code 1871; or

              (c) any offence involving the causing of bodily injury to
                   a child.

Grounds for dispensation of consent of relevant persons

 37.—(1) The court may, on any of the following grounds, dispense
with the consent required under section 26 of any relevant person of a
child before the court:

       (a) the child is the subject of an order under section 56(2)(a) of
            the Children and Young Persons Act 1993, or under
            section 56(2)(a) of that Act as applied by section 57 of that
            Act, being an order that is in force;

       (b) the relevant person has abandoned or neglected the child or
            cannot be found;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
48  NO. 20 OF 2022

    (c) the relevant person has —

           (i) intentionally caused grievous hurt to the child, or
                acted in a manner that the relevant person knew was
                likely to cause grievous hurt to the child; or

          (ii) caused, procured or knowingly permitted another
                person to cause grievous hurt to the child;

    (d) the relevant person —

           (i) has at any time before the specified period, ill‑treated
                the child or caused, procured or knowingly permitted
                another person to ill‑treat the child; and

          (ii) by the end of the specified period, has not taken, or is
                unable or unwilling to take, reasonable steps to
                resolve the circumstances that caused or contributed
                to the ill‑treatment or that can cause or contribute to
                the recurrence of ill‑treatment;

    (e) the relevant person —

           (i) failed to provide suitable care for the child at any
                time before the specified period, thereby causing the
                child to be in need of care or protection (whether
                before or during the specified period); and

          (ii) by the end of the specified period, has not taken, or is
                unable or unwilling to take, reasonable steps to
                resolve the circumstances that caused or contributed
                to the child being in need of care or protection or that
                can cause or contribute to the recurrence of the child
                being in need of care or protection;

    (f) the relevant person is a drug addict as defined in section 2
         of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973, has been convicted of
         offences under that Act (or any corresponding previous
         law) on at least 2 separate occasions and is, by virtue of his
         or her addiction and convictions, unable, unwilling or
         unlikely to care for the child;

    (g) the relevant person is in remand or serving a sentence of
         imprisonment, or is serving an order of detention under any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       49

            written law (whether or not for his or her own
            rehabilitation or safety), for a duration as to render him
            or her unable, unwilling or unlikely to care for the child;

       (h) the relevant person has any physical or mental incapacity
            of such nature or degree, and the incapacity is likely to
            continue for such duration, as to render him or her unable,
            unwilling or unlikely to care for the child;

        (i) the consent of the relevant person, in the opinion of the
            court and in all the circumstances of the case, ought to be
            dispensed with.

 (2) For the purpose of determining whether the ground in
subsection (1)(h) exists in relation to a relevant person, the court
must take into account a medical assessment or psychiatric
assessment (as the case may be) of the relevant person.

 (3) To avoid doubt, the court may dispense with the consent of any
relevant person under subsection (1) even if the relevant person has
made suitable initial arrangements for the child by placing the child
under the care of another person or in a home for children and young
persons, whether pursuant to a court order or voluntary care
agreement under the Children and Young Persons Act 1993 or
otherwise.

 (4) In this section, “specified period”, in relation to the ill‑treatment
of, or the failure to provide suitable care for, a child, means the
following period (whichever is applicable) immediately preceding
the making of an adoption application in respect of the child:

       (a) where the child is below 3 years of age — 12 months;

       (b) where the child is 3 years of age or older — 24 months.

Meaning of “ill‑treatment”

 38. For the purposes of this Division, ill‑treatment of a child occurs
when a person (whether the relevant person of the child or
otherwise) —

       (a) subjects the child to physical or sexual abuse;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
50  NO. 20 OF 2022

       (b) wilfully or unreasonably does, or causes the child to do,
            any act which endangers or is likely to endanger the safety
            of the child or which causes or is likely to cause the
            child —

               (i) any unnecessary physical pain, suffering or injury;

              (ii) any emotional harm; or

             (iii) any injury to the child’s health or development; or

       (c) wilfully or unreasonably exposes the child with full
            intention of abandoning the child or in circumstances
            that are likely to endanger the safety of the child or cause
            the child —

               (i) any unnecessary physical pain, suffering or injury;

              (ii) any emotional harm; or

             (iii) any injury to the child’s health or development,

whether or not any actual suffering or injury on the part of the child or
the likelihood of any suffering or injury on the part of the child was
prevented by another person.

When does relevant person knowingly permit another person
to cause grievous hurt to or ill-treat child

 39. For the purposes of section 37(1)(c) and (d) —

       (a) a relevant person knowingly permits another person (A) to
            cause grievous hurt to a child or to ill‑treat a child if the
            relevant person —

               (i) knows or has reason to believe that the child was at
                   risk of being caused grievous hurt or being ill‑treated
                   by A; and

              (ii) failed to take such steps as the relevant person could
                   reasonably have been expected in the relevant
                   person’s circumstances to take to protect the child
                   from that risk; and

       (b) the relevant person’s circumstances mentioned in
            paragraph (a)(ii) include but are not limited to his or her

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       51

            past or present experiences of being caused grievous hurt
            or being ill‑treated by A, if any.

When is child in need of care or protection

 40. For the purposes of section 37(1)(e), a child is in need of care or
protection if —

       (a) the relevant person —

               (i) is unable or has neglected to provide adequate food,
                   clothing, medical aid, lodging, care or other
                   necessities of life for the child; or

              (ii) is unfit or unable or has neglected to exercise proper
                   supervision and control over the child, and the child
                   is falling into bad association, or is exposed to moral
                   danger, or is beyond control;

       (b) the child is being or is at risk of being ill‑treated —

               (i) by the relevant person; or

              (ii) by any other person, and the relevant person,
                   although knowing of the ill‑treatment or risk, has
                   not protected or is unlikely or unwilling to protect the
                   child from the ill‑treatment;

       (c) the child needs to be examined, investigated or treated for
            the purpose of restoring or preserving the child’s health or
            development and the relevant person neglects or refuses to
            have the child so examined, investigated or treated;

       (d) the child behaves in a manner that is, or is likely to be,
            harmful to himself or herself or to any person and —

               (i) the relevant person is unable or unwilling to take
                   necessary measures to remedy the situation; or

              (ii) the remedial measures taken by the relevant person
                   fail;

       (e) the child suffers or is likely to suffer from emotional harm
            because the child has been or is subject to emotional or
            psychological abuse by the relevant person;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
52  NO. 20 OF 2022

        (f) the child (A) —

               (i) is a person in respect of whom a relevant offence has
                   been or is believed to have been committed; or

              (ii) is a member of the same household as another
                   child (B) in respect of whom a relevant offence has
                   been or is believed to have been committed, and
                   A appears to be in danger of a similar offence being
                   committed against him or her,

        (f) and either the person who committed or is believed to have
            committed the offence or who has been convicted of the
            offence is the relevant person of A, or the relevant person of
            A is unable, unlikely or unwilling to protect A from the
            offence; or

       (g) the child is found to be —

               (i) destitute or wandering without any settled place of
                   abode and without visible means of subsistence;

              (ii) begging or receiving alms (whether or not there is
                   any pretence of singing, playing, performing or
                   offering anything for sale) or loitering for the
                   purpose of so begging or receiving alms;

             (iii) engaged in carrying out illegal lotteries, illegal
                   hawking, gambling or other undesirable activities; or

             (iv) using or inhaling any intoxicating substance (as
                   defined in the Intoxicating Substances Act 1987) for
                   the purpose of inducing or causing in himself or
                   herself a state of intoxication.

Circumstances of emotional or psychological abuse

 41.—(1) Without limiting section 40(e), the circumstances in which
a child may be regarded as being subject to emotional or
psychological abuse by the relevant person under that provision
include any of the following:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
   ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       53

   (a) the relevant person subjects the child to persistent acts of
        rejection or degradation that are harmful to the child’s
        wellbeing or sense of self-worth;

   (b) the relevant person threatens to physically hurt, kill or
        abandon the child, or places the child or a related person of
        the child in any dangerous situation;

   (c) the relevant person isolates the child by consistently
        denying opportunities for the child to communicate with
        any person;

   (d) the relevant person confines the child in any small space
        for the purpose of disciplining the child;

   (e) the relevant person influences the child to develop
        self‑destructive, anti‑social, criminal, deviant or other
        maladaptive behaviour;

.  Illustrations

       (a) The relevant person engages in, permits or encourages
   anti‑social behaviour such as prostitution, performance in
   pornographic media, initiation of criminal activities, substance abuse
   or committing violence to any person.

       (b) The relevant person engages in, permits or encourages
   developmentally inappropriate behaviour by infantilising the child.

       (c) The relevant person engages in, permits or encourages any other
   behaviour that would result in the exploitation or corruption of the child.

        (f) the relevant person exposes the child to, or places the child
            at any risk of exposure to, any violence against a related
            person of the child.

 (2) In this section, “related person”, in relation to a child, means
another person about whose safety or wellbeing the child would
reasonably be expected to be seriously concerned.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
54  NO. 20 OF 2022

    Division 6 — Matters at conclusion of adoption proceedings

Matters with respect to which court to be satisfied before
making adoption order

 42.—(1) The court must not make an adoption order unless the
court is satisfied that —

       (a) every relevant person whose consent is required under
            section 26 and whose consent is not dispensed with has
            freely consented to and understands the nature and effect of
            the adoption order and, in particular, every relevant person
            who is a parent of the child understands that the effect of
            the adoption order will be permanently to deprive him or
            her of his or her parental rights over the child;

       (b) the adoption order, if made, will be for the welfare of the
            child; and

       (c) the joint applicants or sole applicant (as the case may be)
            have or has the appropriate character and fitness and are or
            is suitable to adopt the child.

 (2) For the purpose of satisfying itself whether the adoption order, if
made, will be for the welfare of the child under subsection (1)(b), the
court is to give due consideration to the wishes of the child, having
regard to the age and maturity of the child.

Power to order removal and placement of child upon
unsuccessful adoption application

 43.—(1) This section applies where an adoption application is
unsuccessful.

 (2) The court may, upon an application of the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption or on its own motion, order the person
having physical custody of the child who is the subject of an
unsuccessful adoption application to deliver the child to the physical
custody of a suitable person recommended by the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption within the time specified by the court.

 (3) For the purposes of enforcing an order under subsection (2), the
court may direct the bailiff to seize the child from the physical

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       55

custody of any person or from any place and deliver the child to the
physical custody of the suitable person mentioned in that subsection.

 (4) The court may, upon the application of the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption or on its own motion, make any order as it
thinks fit (whether or not an order under subsection (2) has also been
made) to facilitate any change in the physical custody of a child who
is the subject of an unsuccessful adoption application.

 (5) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with an order under subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) on the first conviction — to a fine not exceeding $10,000
            or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
            both; or

       (b) on a second or subsequent conviction — to a fine not
            exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 6 years or to both.

 (6) In this section, a reference to an adoption application that is
unsuccessful is a reference to an adoption application that is
withdrawn, struck out or dismissed by the court.

                                    PART 4

                      POST-ADOPTION MATTERS

Matters relating to registration or re-registration of births of
adopted children

 44.—(1) If an adoption order (including an adoption order under
the repealed Act) is made, the registrar of the court that makes the
adoption order must, as soon as practicable, provide to the
Registrar‑General of Births and Deaths (called in this Part the
Registrar‑General) a copy of the adoption order and the particulars
(as far as they are known to the court) that are required for the
purposes of registration or re‑registration of the adopted child’s birth
under the Registration of Births and Deaths Act 2021.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
56  NO. 20 OF 2022

 (2) Where —

       (a) the precise date of the adopted child’s birth is not proved to
            the satisfaction of the court, the court must determine the
            probable date of the adopted child’s birth and the date so
            determined must be specified in the order as the date of the
            adopted child’s birth; and

       (b) the country of birth of the adopted child is not proved to the
            satisfaction of the court, the particulars of that country may
            be omitted from the order and from the entry in the register
            maintained by the Registrar‑General.

 (3) No extract from the Adopted Children Register previously
maintained under section 11 of the repealed Act before 15 May 1972
may be issued except by an order of court.

 (4) The Registrar-General must keep any other registers and books
that record the connection between any entry in the Adopted Children
Register previously maintained under section 11 of the repealed Act
before 15 May 1972 and any entry in the registers of births made
pursuant to section 12 of the repealed Act.

 (5) The registers and books and any index of the registers and books
kept under subsection (4) are not open to public inspection or search,
and the Registrar‑General must not, except under an order of court,
provide any person with any information contained in or with any
copy or extract from the registers or books.

 (6) In subsection (1), “registrar” means the Registrar of the
Supreme Court or the registrar of the Family Justice Courts.

Power to order persons to undergo mediation, counselling, etc.,
post adoption proceedings

 45.—(1) This section applies after adoption proceedings arising
from an adoption application (including an adoption application
under the repealed Act) are concluded.

 (2) The court may, upon the application of the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption, make an order requiring the joint applicants
(or either of them) or sole applicant (as the case may be), any relevant
person of the child in respect of whom the adoption application was

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       57

made, or the child, to undergo mediation, counselling, psychotherapy
or other assessment, programme or treatment or to partake in any
activity that the court thinks is beneficial for achieving any of the
following:

       (a) enhancing, promoting or protecting the physical, mental,
            social, or psychological wellbeing or safety of the child;

       (b) resolving any relationship problem —

               (i) between the joint applicants (or either of them) or
                   sole applicant (as the case may be) and the child;

              (ii) between the joint applicants (or either of them) or
                   sole applicant (as the case may be) and any relevant
                   person of the child;

             (iii) between the child and any relevant person of the
                   child; or

             (iv) in a case where an adoption order has been made on
                   the adoption application — within the adoptive
                   family of the child.

 (3) In making an order under subsection (2), the court may require
the joint applicants or sole applicant (as the case may be) or the
relevant person to enter into a bond to comply with the order.

Effect of adoption order on status of adopted child vis‑à‑vis
adoptive parents and on citizenship

 46.—(1) Upon an adoption order being made —

       (a) all rights, duties, obligations and liabilities of the parent or
            parents or guardian or guardians of the adopted child, in
            relation to the future custody, care and control,
            maintenance and education of the adopted child,
            including all rights to appoint a guardian or to consent or
            refuse consent to marriage, are extinguished;

       (b) all the rights, duties, obligations and liabilities mentioned
            in paragraph (a) vest in and are exercisable by and
            enforceable against the adoptive parents or adoptive parent
            as though the adopted child were a child born to the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
58  NO. 20 OF 2022

            adoptive parents or adoptive parent in a lawful marriage;
            and

       (c) in respect of the same matters and in respect of the liability
            of a child to maintain his or her parents, the adopted child
            stands to the adoptive parents or adoptive parent
            exclusively in the position of a child born to the
            adoptive parents or adoptive parent in a lawful marriage.

 (2) In a case where 2 individuals married to each other are the
adoptive parents, the individuals stand to each other and to the
adopted child in the same relation as they would have stood if they
had been the lawful father and mother of the adopted child, and the
adopted child stands to them respectively in the same relation as a
child would have stood to a lawful father and mother respectively —

       (a) in respect of the matters in subsection (1)(a), (b) and (c);
            and

       (b) for the purpose of the jurisdiction of any court to make
            orders as to the custody, care and control and maintenance
            of and right of access to children.

 (3) For the purpose of the law relating to marriage, an adoptive
parent and all children and adopted children of the adoptive parent are
deemed to be within the prohibited degrees of consanguinity.

 (4) Subsection (3) continues to have effect even if a person other
than the adoptive parent of an adopted child adopts the same child
under a subsequent adoption order.

 (5) An adoption order in itself does not affect the citizenship of an
adopted child.

Effect of adoption order on property of adoptive parents and
adopted child

 47.—(1) Where, at any time after the making of an adoption order,
an adoptive parent or the adopted child or any other person dies
intestate in respect of any movable or immovable property, that
property devolves in all respects as if the adopted child were the child
of the adoptive parent born in a lawful marriage and not the child of
any other person.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       59

 (2) In any disposition of movable or immovable property made,
whether by instrument inter vivos or by will (including codicil) after
the date of the adoption order —

       (a) any reference (whether express or implied) in the
            disposition to the child or children of the adoptive parent
            is to be construed, unless the contrary intention appears, as
            or as including a reference to the adopted child;

       (b) any reference (whether express or implied) in the
            disposition to the child or children of the adopted child’s
            biological parents or either of them is to be construed,
            unless the contrary intention appears, as not being or as not
            including a reference to the adopted child; and

       (c) any reference (whether express or implied) in the
            disposition to a person related to the adopted child in
            any degree is to be construed, unless the contrary intention
            appears, as a reference to the person who would be related
            to the adopted child in that degree if the adopted child were
            the child of the adoptive parent born in a lawful marriage
            and not the child of any other person.

 (3) Where —

       (a) an adopted child or the spouse or issue of an adopted child
            takes any interest in movable or immovable property under
            a disposition by his or her adoptive parent or under any
            intestacy; or

       (b) an adoptive parent of an adopted child takes any interest in
            movable or immovable property under —

               (i) a disposition by the adopted child or the spouse or an
                   issue of the adopted child; or

              (ii) the intestacy of the adopted child or the spouse or an
                   issue of the adopted child,

any estate or other duty which becomes leviable in respect of the
movable or immovable property is payable at the same rate as if the
adopted child had been a child born to the adoptive parent in a lawful
marriage.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
60  NO. 20 OF 2022

 (4) For the purposes of this section, “disposition” means an
assurance of any interest in property by any instrument whether
inter vivos or by will (including codicil).

 (5) For the purposes of section 20 or 21 of the Civil Law
Act 1909 —

       (a) a person is deemed to be the parent or child of the deceased
            despite being only related to the deceased in consequence
            of adoption; and

       (b) accordingly, in deducing any relationship which under the
            provisions of that section is included within the meaning of
            the expressions “parent” and “child”, an adopted child is to
            be treated as being, or as having been, the legitimate
            offspring of his or her adoptive parent.

 (6) Subject to subsection (7) but despite anything else in this
section, trustees or personal representatives —

       (a) may convey or distribute any movable or immovable
            property to or among the persons entitled to the property
            without having ascertained that no adoption order has been
            made by virtue of which any person is or may be entitled to
            any interest in the property; and

       (b) are not liable to any such person of whose claim they have
            not had notice at the time of the conveyance or distribution.

 (7) Nothing in subsection (6) affects the right of any person
mentioned in subsection (6)(b) to follow the property, or any property
representing it, into the hands of any person, other than a purchaser,
who may have received it.

 (8) Where an adoption order is made in respect of a person who has
been previously adopted (whether under this Act or the repealed Act),
the previous adoption is to be disregarded for the purposes of this
section in relation to —

       (a) the devolution of any property on the death of a person
            dying intestate after the date of the subsequent adoption
            order; and

       (b) any disposition of property made after that date.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       61

                                    PART 5

       CONFIDENTIALITY OF CHILDREN INVOLVED IN
                      ADOPTION PROCEEDINGS

Restriction on publication or broadcast of information or
pictures of children involved in adoption proceedings

 48.—(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), a person must not
publish or broadcast any information or picture that identifies, or is
likely to lead to the identification of, any protected person as a child
who was or is the subject of an adoption application —

       (a) whether or not an adoption order was or has been made on
            the adoption application; and

       (b) even after the protected person attains 21 years of age.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply where —

       (a) in a case where the adoption application was successful
            and the protected person is below 21 years of age — the
            adoptive parent of the protected person consents to the
            publication or broadcast;

       (b) in a case where the protected person has attained 21 years
            of age — the protected person consents to the publication
            or broadcast;

       (c) in a case where the adoption application was unsuccessful
            and the protected person is below 21 years of age — a
            relevant person of the protected person consents to the
            publication or broadcast; or

       (d) in any case — the Guardian‑in‑Adoption gives his or her
            approval for the publication or broadcast.

 (3) Nothing in subsection (1) prevents —

       (a) any relevant person of a protected person who is below
            21 years of age and in respect of whom no adoption order
            has been made and no adoption proceedings are pending;

       (b) the adoptive parent of a protected person who is below
            21 years of age; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
62  NO. 20 OF 2022

       (c) a protected person in respect of whom no adoption
            proceedings are pending,

from publishing or broadcasting any information or picture
mentioned in that subsection in relation to the protected person.

 (4) If any information or picture is published or broadcast in
contravention of subsection (1) —

       (a) in the case of the publication of any information or picture
            as part of a newspaper or periodical publication — every
            proprietor, editor, publisher or distributor of the newspaper
            or periodical publication;

       (b) in the case of the publication of any information or picture
            otherwise than as part of a newspaper or periodical
            publication — every person who publishes or distributes
            it; or

       (c) in the case of the broadcast of any information or picture —

               (i) every person who broadcasts the information or
                   picture;

              (ii) every person who transmits or provides the
                   programme in which the information or picture is
                   broadcast; and

             (iii) every person having functions in relation to the
                   programme corresponding to those of the editor of a
                   newspaper or periodical publication,

shall each be guilty of an offence and shall each be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or, in the case of a second or
subsequent conviction, to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

 (5) The court may, in addition to any punishment mentioned in
subsection (4), order a person to do any one or more of the following:

       (a) remove the publication or stop the broadcast, of any
            information or picture that is in contravention of
            subsection (1);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       63

       (b) remove the programme in which the information or picture
            that is broadcast in contravention of subsection (1) is
            broadcast;

       (c) delete the information or picture that is published or
            broadcast in contravention of subsection (1);

       (d) take all reasonable steps to ensure that the information or
            picture that is published or broadcast in contravention of
            subsection (1) is no longer available on or through the
            Internet.

 (6) Subsection (1) is in addition to, and not in derogation from, the
provisions of any other written law with respect to the publication of
information relating to judicial proceedings.

 (7) In this section and sections 49, 51 and 52 —

      “adoption application” and “adoption order” include an
         application and an order, respectively, made under
         section 3 of the repealed Act;

      “broadcast” means sounds or visual images —

              (a) broadcast by wireless telegraphy, or by means of a
                   high frequency distribution system over wire or other
                   paths provided by a material substance, and intended
                   for general reception;

              (b) broadcast through the Internet or any website, web
                   service or Internet application, whether or not
                   intended for general reception; or

              (c) broadcast through any messaging system;

      “messaging system” means any system that enables the
         transmission of short text messages, or of any visual
         communication, voice communication or email —

              (a) from a digital mobile telephone to another digital
                   mobile telephone; or

              (b) from an email address to a digital mobile telephone,
                   or the other way around;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
64  NO. 20 OF 2022

      “protected person” means an individual in respect of whom an
         adoption application was or has been made;

      “publish”, in relation to any information or picture, means to
         bring the information or picture to the notice of the public or a
         section of the public by any means, including (to avoid doubt)
         through —

              (a) the Internet or any website, web service or Internet
                   application; or

              (b) any messaging system.

Order to remove publication or broadcast in contravention of
section 48

 49.—(1) A court may, on the application of any of the persons
mentioned in subsection (2), order a person to do any or more of the
following:

       (a) remove the publication, or stop the broadcast, of any
            information or picture that is in contravention of
            section 48(1);

       (b) remove the programme in which the information or picture
            that is broadcast in contravention of section 48(1) is
            broadcast;

       (c) delete the information or picture that is published or
            broadcast in contravention of section 48(1);

       (d) take all reasonable steps to ensure that the information or
            picture that is published or broadcast in contravention of
            section 48(1) is no longer available on or through the
            Internet.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the persons are as follows:

       (a) the Guardian-in-Adoption;

       (b) any relevant person of a protected person who is below
            21 years of age and in respect of whom no adoption order
            has been made and no adoption proceedings are pending;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       65

       (c) the adoptive parent of a protected person who is below
            21 years of age;

       (d) a protected person who has attained 21 years of age.

 (3) The court may make an order under subsection (1) even if —

       (a) the application is not served on the person against whom
            the order is to be made (called in this section the
            respondent) or is not served on the respondent within a
            reasonable time before the hearing of the application; or

       (b) when the application has been served on the respondent —
            the respondent does not appear at the hearing of the
            application,

if the court is satisfied, on a balance of probabilities, that the
protection of the privacy of the protected person that will be achieved
by making the order outweighs the potential detriment to the
respondent by not being heard.

 (4) To avoid doubt, the court may make an order under
subsection (1) regardless of whether the respondent or any other
person has been convicted of an offence under section 48(4) in
relation to the information or picture mentioned in subsection (1).

                                    PART 6

            REGULATION OF ADOPTION PRACTICES
                             AND PROCESSES

Extra-territorial application of this Part

 50.—(1) Unless otherwise provided, the provisions of this Part
have effect, in relation to any person, whatever the person’s
nationality or citizenship, outside as well as within Singapore.

 (2) Where an offence under this Part is committed by any person in
any place outside Singapore, the person may be dealt with as if the
offence had been committed within Singapore.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
66  NO. 20 OF 2022

Restriction on publication or broadcast of information or
pictures of children for adoption, etc.

 51.—(1) This section applies to the publication or broadcast of any
information or picture that identifies a child, or is likely to lead to the
identification of a child, where —

       (a) the child is in Singapore;

       (b) the intended audience or recipients of the information or
            picture is or are predominantly in Singapore; or

       (c) the publication or broadcast is by an adoption agency.

 (2) Except with the prior approval of the Guardian‑in‑Adoption, a
person must not, in the course of doing any of the following, publish
or broadcast any information or picture that identifies any child or is
likely to lead to the identification of any child:

       (a) communicating that a relevant person of a child desires to
            cause the child to be adopted;

       (b) advertising or promoting any service of making
            arrangements for or on behalf of another person for the
            adoption of a child by that other person;

       (c) making arrangements for or on behalf of another person for
            the adoption of a child by that other person.

 (3) Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to any information or
picture broadcast by a person (A) to any other person (B) who has
communicated to A that B desires to adopt a child if the information or
picture —

       (a) is broadcast upon B’s request; and

       (b) is broadcast through such means and with such safeguards
            as to cause the information or picture to be accessible only
            by B (and any other person in B’s position).

 (4) If subsection (3) applies and B publishes or broadcasts the
information or picture broadcast by A, B shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or, in
the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine not exceeding
$10,000.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       67

 (5) If any information or picture is published or broadcast in
contravention of subsection (2) —

       (a) in the case of the publication of any information or picture
            as part of a newspaper or periodical publication — every
            proprietor, editor, publisher or distributor of the newspaper
            or periodical publication;

       (b) in the case of the publication of any information or picture
            otherwise than as part of a newspaper or periodical
            publication — every person who publishes or distributes
            it; or

       (c) in the case of the broadcast of any information or picture —

               (i) every person who broadcasts the information or
                   picture;

              (ii) every person who transmits or provides the
                   programme in which the information or picture is
                   broadcast; and

             (iii) every person having functions in relation to the
                   programme corresponding to those of the editor of a
                   newspaper or periodical publication,

shall each be guilty of an offence and shall each be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or, in the case of a second or
subsequent conviction, to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

 (6) The court may, in addition to any punishment mentioned in
subsection (4) or (5), order a person to do any one or more of the
following:

       (a) remove the publication or stop the broadcast, of any
            information or picture that is in contravention of
            subsection (2) or (4);

       (b) remove the programme in which the information or picture
            that is broadcast in contravention of subsection (2) or (4) is
            broadcast;

       (c) delete the information or picture that is published or
            broadcast in contravention of subsection (2) or (4);

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
68  NO. 20 OF 2022

       (d) take all reasonable steps to ensure that the information or
            picture that is published or broadcast in contravention of
            subsection (2) or (4) is no longer available on or through
            the Internet.

Order to remove publication or broadcast in contravention of
section 51

 52.—(1) A court may, on the application of any person, order a
person to do any or more of the following:

       (a) remove the publication, or stop the broadcast, of any
            information or picture that is in contravention of
            section 51(2) or (4);

       (b) remove the programme in which the information or picture
            that is broadcast in contravention of section 51(2) or (4) is
            broadcast;

       (c) delete the information or picture that is published or
            broadcast in contravention of section 51(2) or (4);

       (d) take all reasonable steps to ensure that the information or
            picture that is published or broadcast in contravention of
            section 51(2) or (4) is no longer available on or through the
            Internet.

 (2) The court may make an order under subsection (1) even if —

       (a) the application is not served on the person against whom
            the order is to be made (called in this section the
            respondent) or is not served on the respondent within a
            reasonable time before the hearing of the application; or

       (b) when the application has been served on the respondent —
            the respondent does not appear at the hearing of the
            application,

if the court is satisfied, on a balance of probabilities, that the order is
necessary for the welfare of the child concerned.

 (3) To avoid doubt, the court may make an order under
subsection (1) —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       69

       (a) regardless of whether the respondent or any other person
            has been convicted of an offence under section 51(4) or (5)
            in relation to the information or picture mentioned in
            subsection (1); and

       (b) regardless of whether the information or picture mentioned
            in subsection (1) is published or broadcast before, on or
            after the date of commencement of this section.

Restricted payments to be sanctioned by court

 53.—(1) This section applies to any payment or other reward in
consideration of the adoption of a child or for any adoption‑related
service, that before, on or after the date of commencement of this
section was or is —

       (a) made or given directly or indirectly through one or more
            intermediaries, or agreed to be made or given directly or
            indirectly through one or more intermediaries, by the joint
            applicants (or either of them) or sole applicant of an
            adoption application to any person; or

       (b) received directly or indirectly through one or more
            intermediaries, or agreed to be received directly or
            indirectly through one or more intermediaries, by the
            joint applicants (or either of them) or sole applicant of an
            adoption application from any person,

regardless of whether the adoption application has been made by the
joint applicants or sole applicant (as the case may be) at the time that
the payment or reward was made, given or received or agreed to be
made, given or received.

 (2) Every payment or other reward to which subsection (1) applies,
and every agreement for such payment or other reward, is void and
unenforceable unless —

       (a) the payment, reward or agreement is sanctioned by the
            court; or

       (b) the adoption application in question is withdrawn or struck
            out.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
70  NO. 20 OF 2022

 (3) An application for the sanction of the court mentioned in
subsection (2)(a) must be made by the joint applicants or sole
applicant (as the case may be) at the time that the adoption application
is made.

Publication of amounts to be paid to or through adoption
agencies, etc.

 54.—(1) Every adoption agency must make publicly available a list
of the following information on payments or other rewards to be
made or given by any person to or through the adoption agency:

       (a) the amount of every payment in consideration of the
            adoption of a child or for an adoption‑related service;

       (b) the nature of every reward (other than a payment) to be
            given in consideration of the adoption of a child or for an
            adoption‑related service;

       (c) a reasonable estimate of the monetary value of every
            reward (if quantifiable) mentioned in paragraph (b).

 (2) An adoption agency must list the information required under
subsection (1) in the prescribed format and in the prescribed itemised
components.

 (3) An adoption agency must not require a person to make or give
any payment or other reward in consideration of an adoption or for
any adoption‑related service (whether to the adoption agency or
another person) that is not listed at the relevant time by the adoption
agency as required under subsection (1).

 (4) Any adoption agency which, without reasonable excuse,
contravenes subsection (1) or (3) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 12 months or to both; or

       (b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction — to a
            fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term
            not exceeding 12 months or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       71

 (5) An adoption agency commits an offence under subsection (4)
regardless of whether the court has sanctioned the payment or other
reward under section 53.

 (6) In this section, “relevant time”, in relation to a payment or other
reward, means the time at which the contract (whether express or
implied) under which the payment or reward is to be made or given is
entered into.

Prohibition against payments and rewards for non-permitted
purposes

 55.—(1) A person must not (directly or indirectly through one or
more intermediaries) make, give, receive or agree to make, give or
receive any payment or other reward in consideration of an adoption
in Singapore of a child or for any adoption‑related service in
connection with the adoption or proposed adoption of a child, unless
the payment or other reward is permitted under subsection (2) or
approved by the Guardian‑in‑Adoption in any particular case.

 (2) The following payments and rewards are permitted for the
purposes of this section:

       (a) any payment to an authorised adoption agency for any one
            or more of the following adoption‑related services:

               (i) the conduct of a pre‑adoption briefing described in
                   section 12;

              (ii) the conduct of a disclosure of adoptive status briefing
                   described in section 13;

             (iii) the conduct of any assessment by the authorised
                   adoption agency for the purposes of preparing an
                   ASA;

       (b) any payment to defray —

               (i) any cost related to the necessary care of a biological
                   mother and her child provided in connection with,
                   and before or after, the delivery of the child;

              (ii) any medical expenses incurred for the delivery of the
                   child;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
72  NO. 20 OF 2022

             (iii) the cost of satisfying the subsistence needs of the
                   child, including any medical expenses incurred for
                   medical services rendered to the child;

             (iv) the cost of any caregiver engaged to care for the
                   child;

              (v) the cost of any medical assessment of any of the
                   following persons:

                    (A) any person who desires to adopt a child;

                     (B) any biological parent of the child;

                     (C) the child;

             (vi) any traveling expenses or cost of accommodation
                   incurred for the transfer of the physical custody of
                   the child to a person who desires to adopt a child; or

            (vii) any administration, legal or application fees incurred
                   (whether in or outside Singapore) in the course of
                   obtaining immigration facilities, registering or
                   re‑registering the child’s birth or obtaining an
                   adoption order (whether in or outside Singapore) in
                   respect of the child;

       (c) any other payment or other reward that may be prescribed
            by the regulations.

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 3 years or to both; or

       (b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction — to a
            fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term
            not exceeding 6 years or to both.

Use of fraud, duress, undue influence or other improper means
to obtain consent to adoption, etc.

 56.—(1) A person must not, whether or not an adoption application
in respect of a child has been made, do any thing fraudulently to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       73

induce, or use any duress, undue influence or other improper means
with the knowledge that it will induce or is likely to induce, any of the
following:

       (a) the agreement of a relevant person of a child to offer or
            refrain from offering the child for adoption in Singapore;

       (b) the transfer of the physical custody of a child, or the
            custody or care and control of a child, with a view to the
            child’s adoption in Singapore;

       (c) the consent of a relevant person of a child required under
            section 26 or the revocation of the consent.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 3 years or to both; or

       (b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction — to a
            fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term
            not exceeding 6 years or to both.

 (3) Where any consent of a relevant person of a child is obtained in
contravention of subsection (1)(c) (whether or not any person has
been convicted of an offence under subsection (2) in relation to the
consent), the court may make a declaration that the consent is void.

 (4) Nothing in subsection (3) affects the validity of any adoption
order or interim order that has been made before the court makes a
declaration mentioned in that subsection.

Restriction on placement of child, etc.

 57.—(1) Unless the requirements in subsection (3) are met, a
potential adopter must not —

       (a) reside with a child for whom an adoptive parent is being
            sought; or

       (b) spend any amount of time with a child for whom an
            adoptive parent is being sought for the purpose of
            considering whether to adopt the child.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
74  NO. 20 OF 2022

 (2) An adoption agency, a relevant person of a child for whom an
adoptive parent is being sought, any employee or contractor of an
adoption agency, or any person assisting a relevant person to care for
the child, must not transfer the physical custody of the child to a
potential adopter who does not meet the requirements in
subsection (3), for the purpose of enabling the potential adopter to —

       (a) reside with the child; or

       (b) spend any amount of time with the child for the purpose of
            considering whether to adopt the child.

 (3) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (2), the requirements are
as follows:

       (a) in a case where the child is a citizen or permanent resident
            of Singapore — the potential adopter holds a valid and
            favourable ASA described in section 14;

       (b) in any other case —

               (i) the potential adopter holds a valid and favourable
                   ASA described in section 14; and

              (ii) either —

                    (A) the child is authorised or permitted to remain in
                          Singapore by virtue of a dependant’s pass
                          issued by the Controller of Immigration for the
                          purposes of adoption upon an application by
                          the potential adopter; or

                     (B) an in‑principle approval of an application by
                          the potential adopter for the pass mentioned in
                          sub‑paragraph (A) has been granted by the
                          Controller of Immigration in respect of the
                          child.

 (4) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply —

       (a) where the potential adopter or the spouse of the potential
            adopter and the child are within the prohibited degrees of
            consanguinity;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       75

       (b) where the child is a stepson or stepdaughter of the potential
            adopter;

       (c) where the potential adopter is a care‑giver to whom the
            child is committed under a voluntary care agreement under
            the Children and Young Persons Act 1993 or any order
            under section 54(1)(b) or 56(2)(a), or section 56(2)(a) as
            applied by section 57, of that Act;

       (d) in any other circumstances as may be prescribed by the
            regulations; or

       (e) in any particular case permitted by the
            Guardian‑in‑Adoption.

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 3 years or to both; or

       (b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction — to a
            fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term
            not exceeding 6 years or to both.

 (6) Where a potential adopter is residing with a child for whom an
adoptive parent is being sought, the requirements in subsection (3)
are not met and the exceptions in subsection (4) do not apply, the
court may, upon the application of the Guardian‑in‑Adoption, order
the potential adopter to deliver the child to the physical custody of a
suitable person recommended by the Guardian‑in‑Adoption within
the time specified by the court.

 (7) To avoid doubt, the court may make an order in relation to a
child under subsection (6) regardless of whether any person has been
convicted of any offence under subsection (5) in relation to the child.

 (8) For the purposes of enforcing an order under subsection (6), the
court may direct the bailiff to seize the child from the physical
custody of any person or from any place and deliver the child to the
physical custody of the suitable person mentioned in that subsection.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
76  NO. 20 OF 2022

 (9) Where an order under subsection (6) is made, the court may also
make any additional order as the court deems fit to facilitate the
change in the physical custody of the child.

 (10) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with an order under subsection (6) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 3 years or to both; or

       (b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction — to a
            fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term
            not exceeding 6 years or to both.

 (11) In this section and section 58 —

      “care-giver”, in relation to a child for whom an adoptive parent
         is being sought, has the meaning in relation to a child or
         young person given by section 2(1) of the Children and
         Young Persons Act 1993;

      “potential adopter” means any individual who desires to adopt a
         child and has —

              (a) attended a pre‑adoption briefing described in
                   section 12;

              (b) made an application to an authorised adoption agency
                   for an ASA;

              (c) communicated to an adoption agency that the
                   individual desires to adopt a child;

              (d) communicated to a relevant person of a child that the
                   individual desires to adopt the child;

              (e) made an application for a dependant’s pass to be
                   issued by the Controller of Immigration for the
                   purposes of adoption; or

              (f) made an adoption application.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       77

Non-application of section 57 to transitional cases

 58. Without affecting section 57(4), nothing in section 57 applies
where —

       (a) the potential adopter is residing with the child in question
            before the date of commencement of this section;

       (b) the potential adopter starts spending any amount of time
            with the child in question for the purpose of considering
            whether to adopt the child, before the date of
            commencement of this section;

       (c) the potential adopter has made an adoption application
            under the repealed Act in respect of the child in question;
            or

       (d) the potential adopter holds (whether jointly with his or her
            spouse or solely) a valid and favourable HSR; and

               (i) the child in question is a citizen or permanent
                   resident of Singapore;

              (ii) the child in question is authorised or permitted to
                   remain in Singapore by virtue of a dependant’s pass
                   issued by the Controller of Immigration for the
                   purposes of adoption upon an application by the
                   potential adopter; or

             (iii) an in‑principle approval of an application by the
                   potential adopter for the pass mentioned in
                   sub‑paragraph (ii) has been granted by the
                   Controller of Immigration in respect of the child in
                   question.

Offence of providing false information, etc., in connection with
ASA or Guardian-in-Adoption’s affidavit

 59.—(1) If —

       (a) a person provides a document or makes a statement
            (whether orally, in writing or any other way) or gives
            information to —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
78  NO. 20 OF 2022

               (i) the Guardian-in-Adoption —

                    (A) in connection with the discharge of the
                          functions or duties, or the exercise of the
                          powers, of the Guardian‑in‑Adoption under
                          section 15, 17, 19, 27 or 29;

                     (B) pursuant to a duty imposed on that person
                          under section 22(2) or 30 to notify the
                          Guardian‑in‑Adoption of a material change in
                          circumstances; or

                     (C) pursuant to an order of the court under
                          section 34(1); or

              (ii) an authorised adoption agency —

                    (A) in connection with the discharge of the
                          functions or duties, or the exercise of the
                          powers, of the authorised adoption agency
                          under section 14, 15, 19 or 29; or

                     (B) pursuant to a duty imposed on that person
                          under section 22(1) or (2) to notify the
                          authorised adoption agency of a material
                          change in circumstances; and

       (b) the document, statement or information is false or
            misleading, or the document, statement or information
            omits a matter or thing without which the document,
            statement or information (as the case may be) is false or
            misleading,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both or, in the case of a second or
subsequent conviction, to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the document, statement or
information is not false or misleading in a material particular, or if the
document, statement or information did not omit any matter or thing

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       79

without which the document, statement or information (as the case
may be) is false or misleading in a material particular.

 (3) In proceedings against a person for an offence under
subsection (1), it is a defence for the person to prove that the
person has taken all reasonable steps to ensure the authenticity or
accuracy of the document, statement or information.

Duty to report offences to Guardian-in-Adoption

 60.—(1) Any of the following persons who knows or has reason to
suspect that an offence under this Part (except this section) or
section 43, 48 or 65 has been committed in connection with the
adoption or proposed adoption of a child, must report to the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption or an authorised officer as soon as
practicable the facts and circumstances on which the person’s
knowledge or suspicion is based:

       (a) an adoption agency or any employee or contractor of an
            adoption agency;

       (b) a relevant person of the child;

       (c) an advocate or solicitor who is acting for any person in
            relation to an adoption application in respect of the child;

       (d) any employee of the advocate or solicitor mentioned in
            paragraph (c) or of a law corporation, law firm or limited
            liability law partnership who is assisting the advocate or
            solicitor in the matter mentioned in that paragraph.

 (2) A person who has engaged the services of an adoption agency
for the proposed adoption of any child and who knows or has reason
to suspect that an offence under this Part (except this section) or
section 43, 48 or 65 has been committed —

       (a) by the adoption agency or any employee or contractor of
            the adoption agency; or

       (b) in connection with the child that the person desires to
            adopt,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
80  NO. 20 OF 2022

must report to the Guardian-in-Adoption or an authorised officer as
soon as practicable the facts and circumstances on which the person’s
knowledge or suspicion is based.

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (1) or (2) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 12 months or to both; or

       (b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction — to a
            fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term
            not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (4) In proceedings against an individual for an offence under
subsection (3), it is not a defence for the individual to rely on —

       (a) the common law privilege against self‑incrimination or
            exposure to the imposition of a penalty; or

       (b) any rule of law relating to legal professional privilege or
            any other privilege, or the public interest.

 (5) However, any information in a report made by an individual
under subsection (1) or (2) is not admissible in evidence against the
individual in any criminal proceeding other than a proceeding for an
offence under section 59(1) or 65(1) or section 177 of the Penal
Code 1871, if the information might in fact tend to incriminate the
individual.

 (6) In this section, “advocate and solicitor”, “law corporation”,
“law firm” and “limited liability law partnership” have the meanings
given by section 2(1) of the Legal Profession Act 1966.

                                    PART 7

                              ENFORCEMENT

Powers of entry, etc., for enforcement purpose

 61.—(1) The Guardian-in-Adoption or an authorised officer may
exercise all or any of the powers in this section for the purpose of
investigating any offence under this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       81

(2) The Guardian-in-Adoption or an authorised officer may —

      (a) at any time of the day or night without notice, enter, inspect
           and search any premises if the Guardian‑in‑Adoption or
           authorised officer reasonably believes that evidence of the
           commission of an offence under this Act can be found in
           those premises;

      (b) photograph or film, or make a record or sketches of, any
           part of the premises mentioned in paragraph (a), or any
           person or thing at the premises;

      (c) inspect and make copies of, or take extracts from, any
           document or thing which is in the possession or under the
           control of any person for the purpose mentioned in
           subsection (1) even though the prior consent of the
           person has not been obtained;

      (d) seize any document or thing found in the premises
           mentioned in paragraph (a) which the
           Guardian‑in‑Adoption or authorised officer reasonably
           believes to be the subject matter of or to be connected with
           the commission of an offence under this Act;

      (e) serve a written notice on any person whom the
           Guardian‑in‑Adoption or authorised officer reasonably
           believes to be in possession of any document or thing
           relevant to the investigation of an offence under this Act,
           requiring that person —

             (i) to produce without charge that document or thing at
                  the time and place stated in the notice; or

            (ii) to give the Guardian-in-Adoption or authorised
                  officer, without charge, access to that document or
                  thing;

      (f) serve a written notice on any person within the limits of
           Singapore and who appears to be acquainted with any of
           the facts or circumstances of the matter under
           investigation, requiring that person to attend before the
           Guardian‑in‑Adoption or authorised officer at the time and
           place stated in the notice;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
82  NO. 20 OF 2022

       (g) require any person whom the Guardian‑in‑Adoption or
            authorised officer reasonably believes to be acquainted
            with any of the facts or circumstances of the matter under
            investigation, to answer any question to the best of the
            person’s knowledge, information and belief, immediately
            or at the place and time specified in a written notice served
            on that person; and

       (h) take any step which appears to be necessary to preserve or
            prevent interference with any document or thing which the
            Guardian‑in‑Adoption or authorised officer considers to be
            the subject matter of or to be connected with the
            commission of an offence under this Act.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2)(c), (d), (e) and (h), if any
document or information required by the Guardian‑in‑Adoption or
authorised officer is kept in electronic form —

       (a) the power of the Guardian-in-Adoption or authorised
            officer to inspect the document or obtain information
            includes the power to —

               (i) access any computer or other equipment (including a
                   mobile telephone) in which the document or material
                   is stored; and

              (ii) require any person having charge of, or otherwise
                   concerned with the operation of, the computer or
                   equipment to provide assistance in gaining access to
                   the computer or other equipment; and

       (b) the power of the Guardian‑in‑Adoption or authorised
            officer to seize the document includes the power to —

               (i) make copies of the document in legible or electronic
                   form; and

              (ii) transfer the information from the document or
                   material to a disc, tape or other storage device.

 (4) If the Guardian-in-Adoption or authorised officer under
subsection (3)(b) is unable to make copies of the document or
transfer the document, he or she may —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       83

       (a) seize the computer or other equipment (including a mobile
            telephone) in which the document or information is stored
            as evidence in proceedings for an offence under this Act;
            and

       (b) require any person having charge of, or otherwise
            concerned with the operation of, the computer or
            equipment to disclose any password or access code for
            gaining access, or to do any other thing to enable the
            Guardian‑in‑Adoption or authorised officer to gain access,
            to the document or information held in the computer or
            equipment.

 (5) If free entry or access to the premises cannot be obtained under
subsection (2)(a), the Guardian‑in‑Adoption or authorised officer
may, with any assistance that he or she considers necessary, break
open any window, lock or fastener, or use any other reasonable means
to gain entry or access into the premises.

 (6) If any person fails to comply with a written notice served on the
person under subsection (2)(e) or (f), the Guardian‑in‑Adoption or
authorised officer may report the failure to a Magistrate who may in
the Magistrate’s discretion then issue a warrant ordering the person to
comply with the written notice.

 (7) Any person examined under subsection (2)(g) is bound to state
truly what the person knows of the facts and circumstances
concerning matters under this Act, except that the person need not
say anything that might expose the person to a criminal charge,
penalty or forfeiture.

 (8) A statement made by a person examined under subsection (2)(g)
must —

       (a) be reduced to writing;

       (b) be read over to the person;

       (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
            a language that the person understands; and

       (d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the person.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
84  NO. 20 OF 2022

Equipment

 62. The Guardian-in-Adoption or an authorised officer may carry or
have in his or her possession or under his or her control any
truncheon, handcuffs or other similar means of restraint for the
purposes of executing his or her duties, or exercising his or her
powers, under this Part.

Disposal of documents or thing

 63.—(1) Any document or thing taken into possession or seized
under this Part must —

       (a) where the document or thing is produced in any criminal
            trial, be dealt with in accordance with section 364 of the
            Criminal Procedure Code 2010; or

       (b) in any other case, be returned to the owner or reported to a
            Magistrate.

 (2) Where the report of any document or thing is made to a
Magistrate under subsection (1)(b), the Magistrate may order the
document or thing —

       (a) to be forfeited; or

       (b) to be disposed of in any manner that the Magistrate thinks
            fit.

 (3) Nothing in this section is to be taken to affect any right to retain
or dispose of any property which may exist in law apart from this
section.

Offence of obstruction

 64. A person who refuses to give access to, or obstructs, hinders or
delays the Guardian-in-Adoption or an authorised officer in the
discharge of his or her duties, or the exercise of his or her powers,
under this Part shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 12 months or to both; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       85

       (b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction — to a
            fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term
            not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Offence of providing false information, etc., in connection with
this Part

 65.—(1) If —

       (a) a person provides a document or makes a statement
            (whether orally, in writing or any other way) or gives
            information to the Guardian-in-Adoption or an authorised
            officer in connection with the discharge of the duties, or the
            exercise of the powers, of the Guardian‑in‑Adoption or
            authorised officer under this Part; and

       (b) the document, statement or information is false or
            misleading, or the document, statement or information
            omits a matter or thing without which the document,
            statement or information is false or misleading,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both or, in the case of a second or
subsequent conviction, to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the document, statement or
information is not false or misleading in a material particular, or if the
document, statement or information did not omit any matter or thing
without which the document, statement or information is false or
misleading in a material particular.

 (3) In proceedings against a person for an offence under
subsection (1), it is a defence for the person to prove that the
person has taken all reasonable steps to ensure the authenticity or
accuracy of the document, statement or information.

Notice to attend court

 66.—(1) Where it appears to the Guardian‑in‑Adoption or any
authorised officer that any person has committed an offence under
this Act, the Guardian‑in‑Adoption or authorised officer may serve

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
86  NO. 20 OF 2022

on the person a written notice, in such form as may be prescribed by
the regulations, requiring the person to attend the court described, at
the time and on the date specified in the notice.

 (2) The Guardian-in-Adoption or authorised officer must, if so
required by a court, produce a copy of the notice mentioned in
subsection (1) to the court.

 (3) On an accused person appearing before a court pursuant to a
notice, the court is to take cognizance of the offence alleged and must
proceed as though the accused person were produced before the court
under section 153 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

 (4) If a person on whom a notice has been served fails to appear
before a court in accordance with the notice, the court must then issue
a warrant for arrest of that person.

 (5) Upon a person arrested pursuant to a warrant issued under
subsection (4) being produced before a court, the court is to proceed
as though the person were produced under section 153 of the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                               [Act 31 of 2022 wef 15/10/2024]

                                    PART 8

                         GENERAL PROVISIONS

Offences by corporations, unincorporated associations or
partnerships

 67.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation, an
unincorporated association or a partnership in relation to a
particular conduct, the following is evidence that the corporation,
unincorporated association or partnership (as the case may be) had
that state of mind:

       (a) in the case of a corporation, evidence that —

               (i) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation
                   engaged in that conduct within the scope of his or her
                   actual or apparent authority; and

              (ii) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       87

       (b) in the case of an unincorporated association or a
            partnership, evidence that —

               (i) an employee or agent of the unincorporated
                   association or partnership engaged in that conduct
                   within the scope of his or her actual or apparent
                   authority; and

              (ii) the employee or agent had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                   type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                   take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                   commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
88  NO. 20 OF 2022

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership in
                   relation to the commission of the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the unincorporated
                   association or partnership; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the unincorporated association or
                   partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                   be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                   reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                   that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (4) A person mentioned in subsection (2) or (3) may rely on a
defence that would be available to the corporation, unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be) if it were charged with
the offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the
person bears the same burden of proof that the corporation,
unincorporated association or partnership (as the case may be)
would bear.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) or (3) does not affect the liability
of a corporation, an unincorporated association or a partnership (as

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       89

the case may be) for an offence under this Act, and applies whether or
not the corporation, unincorporated association or partnership (as the
case may be) is convicted of the offence.

 (6) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (7) Regulations under section 75 may provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with any modifications that the Minister
considers appropriate, to any corporation, unincorporated association
or partnership formed or recognised under the law of a territory
outside Singapore.

 (8) In this section —

      “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership;

      “officer” —

              (a) in relation to a corporation — means any director,
                   partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other
                   similar officer of the corporation, and includes —

                     (i) any person purporting to act in any such
                          capacity; and

                     (ii) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by
                          its members, any of those members as if the
                          member were a director of the corporation; and

              (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
                   than a partnership) — means the president, the
                   secretary, or any member of the committee of the
                   unincorporated association, and includes —

                     (i) any person holding a position analogous to that
                          of president, secretary or member of a
                          committee of the unincorporated association;
                          and

                     (ii) any person purporting to act in any such
                          capacity;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
90  NO. 20 OF 2022

      “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

Composition of offences

 68.—(1) The Guardian-in-Adoption or an authorised officer may
compound any offence under this Act that is prescribed as a
compoundable offence by collecting from a person reasonably
suspected of having committed the offence a sum not exceeding
the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money under subsection (1), no
further proceedings are to be taken against that person in respect of
the offence.

Contempt of court orders under this Act

 69.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), sections 43(5) and 57(10) do not
affect the powers of the court in relation to the punishment for a
contempt of court.

 (2) Where a person is convicted of an offence under section 43(5) or
57(10) in respect of any non‑compliance with an order, that
non‑compliance is not punishable as a contempt of court.

 (3) A person cannot be convicted of an offence under section 43(5)
or 57(10) in respect of any non‑compliance with an order which has
been punished as a contempt of court.

 (4) The Guardian-in-Adoption or an authorised officer may apply
for a committal order for contempt of court (where applicable) in
respect of the non‑compliance with an order of a court under this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       91

Service of documents

 70.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by or under this
Act to be served on a person may be served as described in this
section.

 (2) A document may be served on an individual —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
            if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
            address or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult person apparently residing there, or at the
            individual’s business address with an adult person
            apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number given by the
            individual as the fax number for the service of documents
            under this Act; or

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s email address.

 (3) A document may be served on a partnership (other than a
limited liability partnership) —

       (a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer of the
            partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the partnership’s business address;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
            partnership’s business address; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s email address.

 (4) A document may be served on a body corporate (including a
limited liability partnership) or an unincorporated association —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
92  NO. 20 OF 2022

       (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
            body corporate or unincorporated association or the limited
            liability partnership’s manager;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the body corporate’s or unincorporated association’s
            registered office or principal office in Singapore;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the body
            corporate’s or unincorporated association’s registered
            office or principal office in Singapore; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the body corporate’s or
            unincorporated association’s email address.

 (5) Service of a document on a person under this section takes
effect —

       (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
            successful transmission is received, on the day of the
            transmission;

       (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
            becomes capable of being retrieved by the person; and

       (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
            after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
            undelivered).

 (6) A document may be served on a person under this Act by email
only with that person’s prior written consent.

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

 (8) In this section —

      “business address” means —

              (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
                   last known place of business in Singapore; and

              (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
                   liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
                   last known place of business in Singapore;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       93

      “email address” means the last email address given by the
         addressee concerned as the email address for the service of
         documents under this Act;

      “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
         place of residence in Singapore.

Disclosure of information to and by Guardian-in-Adoption or
authorised adoption agency, etc.

 71.—(1) Subsections (2) to (5) are subject to any express restriction
imposed by or under any other written law.

 (2) The Guardian-in-Adoption may disclose to an authorised
adoption agency any information received by the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption under or for the purposes of this Act, where
the disclosure is for the purpose of enabling or assisting the
authorised adoption agency to perform a function or discharge a
duty of the authorised adoption agency under this Act.

 (3) An authorised adoption agency may disclose to the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption any information received by the authorised
adoption agency under or for the purposes of this Act, where the
disclosure is for the purpose of enabling or assisting the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption to perform a function or discharge a duty of
the Guardian‑in‑Adoption under this Act.

 (4) A body or person specified in subsection (6) may disclose to the
Guardian‑in‑Adoption or an authorised adoption agency any
information, where the disclosure is for —

       (a) the purpose of enabling or assisting the
            Guardian‑in‑Adoption or authorised adoption agency (as
            the case may be) to perform a function or discharge a duty
            of the Guardian‑in‑Adoption or authorised adoption
            agency (as the case may be) under this Act; or

       (b) any purpose connected with the performance of a function
            or the discharge of a duty of the other body or person under
            any written law.

 (5) The Guardian-in-Adoption or an authorised adoption agency
may disclose to a body or person specified in subsection (6) any

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
94  NO. 20 OF 2022

information received by the Guardian-in-Adoption or authorised
adoption agency (as the case may be) under or for the purposes of this
Act, where the disclosure is for —

       (a) the purpose of enabling or assisting the body or person to
            perform a function or discharge a duty of that body or
            person (as the case may be) under or for the purposes of
            any written law; or

       (b) any purpose connected with the performance of any of the
            functions or the discharge of any of the duties of the
            Guardian‑in‑Adoption or authorised adoption agency (as
            the case may be) under this Act.

 (6) The bodies and persons for the purposes of subsections (4) and
(5) are as follows:

       (a) any Government department;

       (b) any statutory body;

       (c) any authorised officer;

       (d) any police officer;

       (e) any other body or person that may be prescribed by the
            regulations.

 (7) Nothing in this section is to be construed as affecting any power
of disclosure apart from this section.

Protection of persons giving information to authorities

 72.—(1) Any person who knows or has reason to suspect that an
offence under this Act has been committed may make a notification to
the Guardian‑in‑Adoption or an authorised officer of the facts and
circumstances on which the person’s knowledge or suspicion is
based.

 (2) Any person who makes a notification under subsection (1) or a
report under section 60(1) or (2) —

       (a) cannot, by virtue of doing so, be held in any proceedings
            before any court or tribunal or in any other respect to have
            breached any restriction on disclosure imposed by any rule

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       95

            of law, contract or rule of professional etiquette or ethics,
            or to have departed from any accepted form of professional
            conduct; and

       (b) insofar as the person had acted in good faith, incurs no civil
            or criminal liability for making the notification or report or
            providing any information contained in the notification or
            report.

 (3) Any person appearing as a witness in any proceedings in any
court or tribunal before a person authorised by law to hear evidence
cannot be compelled —

       (a) to disclose the identity of any person who has made a
            notification under subsection (1) or a report under
            section 60(1) or (2), or any information likely to lead to
            the disclosure of the identity of the person; or

       (b) to produce any report or document (or any part of a report
            or document) which identifies, or is likely to identify, any
            person who has made a notification under subsection (1) or
            a report under section 60(1) or (2).

Protection from personal liability

 73.—(1) Subsection (2) applies where an act is done or an omission
is made —

       (a) by the Guardian-in-Adoption, any authorised adoption
            agency, any authorised officer, or any person acting under
            the direction of the Guardian-in-Adoption or an authorised
            adoption agency —

               (i) in the exercise or purported exercise of any function
                   of the Guardian-in-Adoption or any authorised
                   adoption agency or authorised officer under this
                   Act; or

              (ii) in compliance or purported compliance with —

                    (A) any direction of the Guardian-in-Adoption or
                          any authorised adoption agency under this Act;
                          or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
96  NO. 20 OF 2022

                     (B) an order made by a court under this Act;

       (b) by the Director‑General or any protector in the course of
            preparing or providing a report requested under
            section 27(3);

       (c) by any person in the course of conducting mediation,
            counselling, psychotherapy or other assessment,
            programme or treatment or other activity under
            section 35 or 45; or

       (d) by any person (being a person appointed by a court or
            pursuant to an order of a court) in compliance or purported
            compliance with an order made by a court under section 43
            or 57.

 (2) No liability shall lie personally against the person who did the
act or made the omission if the act was done or the omission was
made in good faith and with reasonable care.

 (3) No liability shall lie personally against —

       (a) any relative or member of a household mentioned in
            section 19(2)(b), for providing any information or
            document to the Guardian-in-Adoption or an authorised
            adoption agency under that provision;

       (b) any person mentioned in section 19(2)(c), for providing
            any information or document to the Guardian‑in‑Adoption
            or an authorised adoption agency under that provision;

       (c) any relative or member of a household mentioned in
            section 29(1)(b), for providing any information to the
            Guardian‑in‑Adoption or an authorised adoption agency
            under that provision; or

       (d) any person mentioned in section 29(1)(d), for providing
            any information to the Guardian‑in‑Adoption or an
            authorised adoption agency under that provision,

in breach of any rule of law relating to the confidentiality of such
information.

 (4) In this section, a reference to the exercise of a function includes
a reference to the exercise of a power or the performance of a duty.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       97

Family Justice Rules

 74.—(1) The Family Justice Rules Committee constituted under
section 46(1) of the Family Justice Act 2014 may make Family
Justice Rules —

       (a) to regulate and prescribe the procedure and practice to be
            followed in respect of any application to a court under this
            Act; and

       (b) to provide for any matter relating to such procedure or
            practice.

 (2) The Family Justice Rules may, instead of providing for any
matter, refer to any provision made or to be made about that matter by
practice directions issued for the time being by the registrar of the
Family Justice Courts.

 (3) All Family Justice Rules made under this section must be
presented to Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the
Gazette.

Power to make regulations

 75.—(1) The Minister may make regulations —

       (a) to prescribe anything that is required or permitted to be
            prescribed by this Act; or

       (b) generally for the purposes of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations may —

       (a) prescribe the forms for the purposes of this Act;

       (b) prescribe the fees payable in respect of any application or
            matter under this Act;

       (c) provide for the manner in which prescribed fees are to be
            paid;

       (d) provide for the waiver, refund or remission (whether in
            whole or in part) of any prescribed fee;

       (e) provide for the manner of submission of documents to the
            Guardian‑in‑Adoption;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
98  NO. 20 OF 2022

        (f) provide for the manner of making any notification under
            the Act;

       (g) prescribe that any act or omission in contravention of any
            provision of regulations made under this Act shall be an
            offence punishable with a fine not exceeding $4,000 for the
            offence; and

       (h) prescribe offences that may be compounded.

 (3) The powers conferred by this section do not extend to any
matter for which Family Justice Rules may be made under section 74.

Repeal of Adoption of Children Act 1939

 76.—(1) The Adoption of Children Act 1939 is repealed.

 (2) To avoid doubt, the repeal of the Adoption of Children Act 1939
does not affect any order made or anything done under that Act.

                                    PART 9

   RELATED AND CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS AND
           SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

Consequential amendment to Child Development Co‑Savings
Act 2001

 77. Section 2(1) of the Child Development Co‑Savings Act 2001 is
amended by deleting the words “Adoption of Children Act 1939” in
the definition of “dependant’s pass” and substituting the words
“Adoption of Children Act 2022 or any corresponding previous
written law”.

Related amendment to Children and Young Persons Act 1993

 78. Section 112 of the Children and Young Persons Act 1993 is
amended by inserting, immediately after subsection (1), the following
subsection:

       “(1A) Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to any
      proceedings in court arising from an adoption application
      under the Adoption of Children Act 2022, including any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       99

      appeal against any decision made by the court on the adoption
      application.”.

Consequential amendment to Civil Law Act 1909

 79. Section 20(10) of the Civil Law Act 1909 is amended by
deleting the words “Adoption of Children Act 1939” and substituting
the words “Adoption of Children Act 2022 or any corresponding
previous written law”.

Consequential amendment to Family Justice Act 2014

 80. Section 2(1) of the Family Justice Act 2014 is amended by
deleting the words “Adoption of Children Act 1939” in paragraph (b)
of the definition of “family proceedings” and substituting the words
“Adoption of Children Act 2022”.

Related and consequential amendment to Mental Capacity
Act 2008

 81. Section 26 of the Mental Capacity Act 2008 is amended by
deleting paragraph (d) and substituting the following paragraph:

            “(d) consenting or revoking consent to the making of an
                  adoption order under the Adoption of Children
                  Act 2022 or any corresponding previous written
                  law;”.

Consequential amendments to Registration of Births and
Deaths Act 2021

 82. Section 14(1) of the Registration of Births and Deaths Act 2021
is amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “Adoption of Children Act 1939”
            and substituting the words “Adoption of Children Act 2022
            or any corresponding previous written law”; and

       (b) by deleting the words “section 12(1) of that Act” and
            substituting the words “section 44(1) of the Adoption of
            Children Act 2022”.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
100  NO. 20 OF 2022

Related and consequential amendments to Women’s
Charter 1961

 83. The Women’s Charter 1961 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “and has been or will be solemnised
            or made” in section 141(2) and substituting the words “, or
            has been or will be solemnised or made,”; and

       (b) by deleting the words “Adoption of Children Act 1939, or
            any enactment thereby repealed” in the definition of
            “parent” in section 145(4) and substituting the words
            “Adoption of Children Act 2022 or any corresponding
            previous written law”.

Consequential amendment to Work Injury Compensation
Act 2019

 84. Section 2 of the Work Injury Compensation Act 2019 is
amended by deleting the definition of “adopted child” and
substituting the following definition:

      “ “adopted child”, in relation to a claimant, means any child —

                    (a) who is adopted by the claimant under the
                         Adoption of Children Act 2022 or any
                         corresponding previous written law; or

                    (b) whose adoption by the claimant is recognised by
                         the law or consular authority of the place of
                         nationality of the claimant or the child,

           and “adoptive parent” has a corresponding meaning;”.

Saving and transitional provisions

 85.—(1) Despite section 76 —

       (a) the repealed Act (except section 12) continues to apply in
            relation to an adoption application, interim order or
            adoption order, made under the repealed Act before the
            date of commencement of section 76; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN                                       101

       (b) any right of appeal accruing before, on or after the date of
            commencement of section 76 against any order or decision
            of the court under the repealed Act continues,

as if that Act had not been repealed.

 (2) Despite section 80, the Family Justice Act 2014 applies to an
adoption application, interim order or adoption order to which the
repealed Act continues to apply under subsection (1), as if section 80
had not been enacted.

 (3) Despite sections 74 and 76, every provision of the Family
Justice Rules made under section 46 of the Family Justice Act 2014
for the purposes of section 10(1) of the repealed Act and in force
immediately before the date of commencement of sections 74 and 76
continues in force, so far as the provision is not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act and until that provision is revoked.

 (4) Every valid and favourable HSR issued before the date of
commencement of section 76 continues to be valid for the period
specified in the HSR or any further period granted by a duly
authorised officer of the Ministry of Social and Family Development.

 (5) Part 2 of this Act does not apply to an adoption application made
that is supported by a valid and favourable HSR.

 (6) Every reference to a “child” in this Act includes a reference to
an “infant” in the repealed Act so far as the repealed Act continues to
have effect under subsection (1) in any particular case.

 (7) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of any
provision of this Act, the Minister may, by regulations, prescribe such
provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on the
enactment of that provision as the Minister may consider necessary or
expedient.

 (8) Nothing in this section affects section 16 of the Interpretation
Act 1965.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/10/2024
