THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
           EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES ACT 1958

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                                    2020 Ed.

Employment Agencies Act 1958

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

     1.  Short title
     2.  Interpretation
     3.  Appointment of officers
     4.  Application
     5.  Other laws not affected
     6.  Requirement for licence
     7.  Application for licence
     8.  Security
     9.  Period of validity of licence
   10.   Suspension or revocation of licence
   11.   Effect of suspension or revocation of licence
   12.   Registration of employment agency personnel
   13.   Registration cards
   14.   Appeals
   15.   Fees for services rendered
   16.   Offer of fees, etc., prohibited
   17.   Powers of employment agency inspector
   18.   Power to arrest without warrant
   19.   Arrest how made
   20.   No unnecessary restraint
   21.   Search of persons arrested
   22.   Employment agency inspector to be armed
   23.   Power to seize offensive weapons
   24.   Power on escape to pursue and arrest
   25.   Disposal of documents or articles
   26.   Complaint by employment agency inspector
   27.   Power to enter and inspect premises
   28.   Liability of licensee for act of servant and partner
   29.   Providing false information
   30.   Offence for persons to engage unlicensed persons
   31.   Offence for licensed employment agencies to make certain
         applications
   32.   Disqualification of key appointment holders or employment
         agency personnel

         1

            31.12.2021
2        Employment Agencies Act 1958                          2020 Ed.

Section  Miscellaneous offences
         Certain offences deemed to be arrestable offences
   33.   Officers to be public servants
   34.   Employment agency deemed to be public place
   35.   Right of hearing
   36.   Power to deal with evidence taken by another officer
   37.   Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
   38.   Abetment
   39.   Composition of offences
   40.   Protection from personal liability
   41.   Jurisdiction of court
   42.   Registers
   43.   Power to make rules
   44.
   45.

An Act to provide for the regulation of employment agencies.

                                                              [1 January 1959]

Short title

 1. This Act is the Employment Agencies Act 1958.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “Commissioner” means the Commissioner for Employment
         Agencies appointed under section 3(1);

      “employment agency” means any agency or registry carried on
         or represented as being or intended to be carried on (whether
         for the purpose of gain or reward or not) for or in connection
         with the employment of persons in any capacity, but does not
         include any registry set up by an employer for the sole
         purpose of recruiting persons for employment on the
         employer’s own behalf;

      “employment agency personnel” means any person who
         performs any work for an employment agency (including
         work which is not specified employment agency work) for or
2020 Ed.  Employment Agencies Act 1958            3

          in connection with the employment of persons in any
          capacity, and includes —

          (a) any key appointment holder of the employment
               agency; and

          (b) any person who is engaged, whether on a permanent,
               temporary or contractual basis, by the employment
               agency to perform such work;

“key appointment holder”, in relation to an employment agency,
   means —

          (a) any director, chief executive officer, chief financial
               officer, chief operating officer, partner or sole
               proprietor of the employment agency; or

        (b) any person, by whatever name called, who has
             general control and management of the
             administration of any specified employment agency
             work of the employment agency;

“licence” means a licence granted under this Act;

“licensee” means the person to whom a licence is granted under
   this Act;

“partner” includes a partner of a limited liability partnership, a
   general partner of a limited partnership and a limited partner
   of a limited partnership;

“premises” includes —

          (a) any building or structure, whether permanent or
               temporary;

          (b) any land, whether or not built on;

          (c) any place, whether or not enclosed, and whether or
              not situated underground or underwater;

          (d) any vessel, aircraft, train or vehicle (whether
               mechanically propelled or otherwise) or any other
               means of transport; and

                                                  31.12.2021
4  Employment Agencies Act 1958  2020 Ed.

   (e) any part of any premises referred to in paragraphs (a)
       to (d);

   “public officer” means a person holding a paid office in the
      service of the Government;

   “specified employment agency work” means any of the
      following work:

   (a) communication with any applicant for employment
        for the purpose of processing any application by the
        applicant for employment;

   (b) collation of the biodata or resume of any applicant for
        employment for the purpose of helping the applicant
        establish an employer-employee relationship;

   (c) submission of any application on behalf of any
       employer or applicant for employment to the
       Controller of Work Passes appointed under
       section 3 of the Employment of Foreign Manpower
       Act 1990, which application is required under that
       Act;

   (d) facilitation of the placement of any applicant for
        employment with an employer.

Appointment of officers

 3.—(1) The Minister may appoint a Commissioner for
Employment Agencies who has the functions and powers conferred
on the Commissioner by this Act.

 (2) The Minister may appoint such number of Deputy
Commissioners for Employment Agencies and Assistant
Commissioners for Employment Agencies as the Minister may
think necessary to assist the Commissioner in the proper discharge of
the Commissioner’s functions.

 (3) The Deputy Commissioners for Employment Agencies and
Assistant Commissioners for Employment Agencies have and may
exercise and perform all the powers, duties and functions of the
Commissioner conferred by this Act, subject to any limitations that
the Commissioner may think fit to impose.
2020 Ed.  Employment Agencies Act 1958  5

 (4) The Minister may appoint such number of employment agency
inspectors and employment agency licensing officers as the Minister
may think fit for carrying out the purposes of this Act.

 (5) The Commissioner, Deputy Commissioners for Employment
Agencies and Assistant Commissioners for Employment Agencies
have and may exercise and perform all the powers, duties and
functions of an employment agency inspector or an employment
agency licensing officer conferred by this Act.

Application

 4.—(1) Nothing in this Act applies to any employment agency
wholly maintained or wholly managed by any department of the
Government.

 (2) The Minister may, by order, exempt any person or employment
agency, or any class thereof, when performing any type of work or
activity as may be stated in the order, from all or any of the provisions
of this Act, either absolutely or subject to any conditions that the
Minister may think fit to impose.

 (3) The Minister may, at any time, revoke any exemption order
made under subsection (2), or cancel, alter or add to any condition in
the exemption order.

 (4) Without limiting the conditions that may be imposed under
subsection (2), the Minister may, when exempting any person or
employment agency, or any class thereof, from the requirement for a
licence, impose a condition requiring the person or employment
agency, or any class thereof, to obtain the approval of the
Commissioner to be registered, in such form and manner as the
Commissioner may determine, as an exempt person or exempt
employment agency, as the case may be.

Other laws not affected

 5. Nothing in this Act operates to relieve any employment agency
of any duty or liability imposed upon it by any other written law for
the time being in force or to limit any powers given to any public
officer by any other written law.

                                        31.12.2021
6  Employment Agencies Act 1958                        2020 Ed.

Requirement for licence

 6.—(1) A person must not carry on an employment agency unless
the person is the holder of a licence from the Commissioner
authorising the person to carry on an employment agency.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a person must not perform any work
or activity in Singapore —

   (a) for or in connection with the employment of one or more
        persons in any capacity, whether or not those persons are to
        be employed within or outside Singapore; and

   (b) on the firstmentioned person’s own behalf or on behalf of
        an employment agency which is carried on outside
        Singapore,

unless the firstmentioned person is the holder of a licence from the
Commissioner authorising that person to perform such work or
activity.

   (3) Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to —

   (a) any person who is the holder of a licence mentioned in
        subsection (1);

   (b) any person who performs such work or activity mentioned
        in subsection (2) in that person’s capacity as an
        employment agency personnel and who is registered
        under section 12; or

   (c) any person who performs such work or activity mentioned
       in subsection (2) for the sole purpose of recruiting persons
       for employment on that person’s own behalf.

 (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

   (a) to a fine not exceeding $80,000 or to imprisonment for a
        term not exceeding 2 years or to both; and

   (b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
        not exceeding $160,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
        exceeding 4 years or to both.
2020 Ed.  Employment Agencies Act 1958  7

Application for licence

 7.—(1) Any person who desires to obtain or to renew a licence must
make an application to the Commissioner in such form as the
Commissioner may require, which must be accompanied by the
prescribed application fee.

 (2) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1), the
Commissioner must consider the application and may grant or
renew a licence with or without conditions or refuse to grant or renew
a licence, as the case may be.

 (3) If the Commissioner decides to grant or renew a licence under
subsection (2), he or she may do so upon the payment of the
prescribed fee.

 (4) The Commissioner may at any time vary or revoke any of the
existing conditions of a licence or impose new conditions.

 (5) The Commissioner may debar any person from applying for or
being granted a licence for such period of time as may be determined
by the Commissioner.

Security

 8.—(1) The Commissioner may, before granting a licence, require
the applicant to give such security as may be prescribed.

 (2) Any sum deposited under this section may be forfeited in whole
or in part at the discretion of the Commissioner on the revocation of
the licence under section 10, or if the Commissioner is satisfied that
the licensee has failed to comply with any condition as may be
specified by the Commissioner in respect of any security given under
subsection (1).

Period of validity of licence

 9.—(1) A licence continues to be in force for the period specified in
the licence unless it is earlier suspended or revoked by the
Commissioner, as the case may be.

 (2) The holder of a licence who carries on an employment agency,
or performs any work or activity mentioned in section 6(2), for which

                                        31.12.2021
8  Employment Agencies Act 1958  2020 Ed.

the licence is granted, after the validity period specified in the licence
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

   (a) to a fine not exceeding $80,000 or to imprisonment for a
        term not exceeding 2 years or to both; and

   (b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
        not exceeding $160,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
        exceeding 4 years or to both.

 (3) Despite subsection (2), where the Commissioner has received
an application for the renewal of a licence within the prescribed
period after the expiry of the licence, he or she may renew the licence
upon the payment of the prescribed late renewal fee.

 (4) Where the Commissioner has renewed a licence under
subsection (3), the renewal takes effect from the date immediately
after the date on which the licence would have expired had it not been
renewed.

                                                                               [10

Suspension or revocation of licence

 10.—(1) The Commissioner may suspend or revoke a licence if he
or she is satisfied that the licensee —

       (a) is contravening or has contravened any of the provisions of
            this Act;

       (b) has failed to comply with any of the conditions of the
            licence;

       (c) has carried on or is carrying on an employment agency, or
            has performed or is performing any work or activity
            mentioned in section 6(2), in a manner likely to be
            detrimental to the interests of the clients of the licensee;

       (d) has ceased to carry on an employment agency or ceased to
            perform any work or activity mentioned in section 6(2) for
            which the licensee has been licensed or, if the licensee is a
            company, goes into liquidation or is wound up or otherwise
            dissolved;
2020 Ed.  Employment Agencies Act 1958                               9

          (e) has not carried on an employment agency or performed any
              work or activity mentioned in section 6(2), for which the
              licence is granted, for a continuous period of 6 months;

          (f) has acted in a manner detrimental to public interest;

(g) has committed a criminal offence; or

(h) is no longer a fit and proper person to continue to hold the
     licence.

 (2) The Commissioner may revoke a licence upon the application
for revocation of the licence by the licensee.

 (3) When the Commissioner has suspended or revoked a licence
under subsection (1), he or she must forthwith inform the licensee
concerned by written notice of the suspension or revocation.

 (4) An order of suspension or revocation does not take effect until
the expiration of 14 days after the order has been served on the
licensee.

 (5) If within the period stated in subsection (4) the licensee gives
due notice of appeal to the Minister, the order of suspension or
revocation does not take effect unless the order is confirmed by the
Minister or the appeal is withdrawn.

 (6) The Commissioner may at any time reinstate a licence which
has been suspended.

                                                                               [11

Effect of suspension or revocation of licence

 11.—(1) Where an order of suspension becomes effective under
section 10, the licensee concerned may continue to carry on the
employment agency or perform any work or activity mentioned in
section 6(2) (as the case may be), except that the licensee must not
enter into new recruitment or placement agreements.

 (2) Where an order of revocation becomes effective under
section 10, the licensee concerned must immediately cease to carry
on the employment agency or perform all work or activity mentioned
in section 6(2), as the case may be.

                                          31.12.2021
10  Employment Agencies Act 1958  2020 Ed.

 (3) Subject to any directions which the Commissioner may give
under subsection (4), subsections (1) and (2) do not prejudice the
enforcement by any person of any right or claim against the licensee
concerned or by the licensee concerned of any right or claim against
any person arising out of or concerning any matter or thing done prior
to the suspension or revocation of the licence.

 (4) Where an order of suspension or revocation is served on a
licensee or where such order becomes effective under section 10,
despite any rule of law or agreement to the contrary or any other
provision in this section, the licensee concerned must comply with
any directions that the Commissioner thinks fit to give which
directions may include, but are not limited to, all or any of the
following:

    (a) to inform, in writing, every applicant for employment and
         every applicant for workers who uses any service of the
         licensee of the fact that the licensee has been given the
         order;

    (b) not to collect any deposit or fee from any applicant
         mentioned in paragraph (a) or any class thereof;

    (c) to refund any applicant mentioned in paragraph (a) or any
        class thereof, within the time specified in the direction, the
        whole or such part of any deposit or fee received from the
        applicant as the Commissioner deems equitable;

    (d) to make arrangements so that any applicant mentioned in
         paragraph (a) or any class thereof will continue to receive
         the services to be provided by the licensee from another
         licensee and to notify the applicant or class of applicants
         (as the case may be) accordingly;

    (e) not to make any application to the Controller of Work
        Passes appointed under section 3 of the Employment of
        Foreign Manpower Act 1990;

    (f) to return the passports or other documents of identity in the
        possession of the licensee to the persons to whom they
        belong.
2020 Ed.  Employment Agencies Act 1958  11

 (5) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1) or (2), or any direction given by the Commissioner
under subsection (4), shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction —

(a) to a fine not exceeding $80,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 2 years or to both; and

(b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
     not exceeding $160,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
     exceeding 4 years or to both.
                                                                       [12

Registration of employment agency personnel

 12.—(1) Any licensee must, before permitting or authorising any
employment agency personnel to perform any specified employment
agency work, apply to the Commissioner for the employment agency
personnel to be registered as such.

 (2) Any application under subsection (1) must be in such form as
the Commissioner may require, and be accompanied by the
prescribed registration fee.

 (3) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1), the
Commissioner must consider the application and may grant the
application or refuse to grant the application.

 (4) The Commissioner may, before or after granting the application,
require the employment agency personnel to be certified as having
attended or successfully completed, to the satisfaction of the
Commissioner, such courses as the Commissioner may determine.

 (5) The Commissioner may, in any particular case if he or she
thinks fit, grant the application even though the employment agency
personnel has not satisfied the requirements of the Commissioner
under subsection (4).

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

                                        31.12.2021
12  Employment Agencies Act 1958                          2020 Ed.

 (7) Any person who performs any specified employment agency
work when that person knows or ought reasonably to have known that
he or she is not registered in accordance with subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

 (8) Where any employment agency personnel of a licensee —

    (a) has ceased to be engaged by the licensee; or

    (b) has ceased to perform all specified employment agency
         work upon the request of the employment agency
         personnel or the instruction of the licensee, even though
         the employment agency personnel concerned is still
         engaged by the licensee,

the licensee concerned must, within such time as may be prescribed,
apply to the Commissioner, using such form as the Commissioner
may require, to deregister the employment agency personnel.

(9) Upon receiving an application under subsection (8) —

    (a) in a case where the application is accompanied by the
         written consent of the employment agency personnel
         referred to in that subsection stating that the employment
         agency personnel wishes to be deregistered, the
         Commissioner must grant the application for
         deregistration; or

    (b) in any other case, the Commissioner may grant or refuse to
         grant the application for deregistration.

 (10) The Commissioner may, in any particular case if he or she
thinks fit, deregister any employment agency personnel.

 (11) Any licensee who contravenes subsection (8) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

 (12) A licensee remains liable for any act, omission, neglect or
default of a person in relation to any specified employment agency
work performed by that person who —
2020 Ed.  Employment Agencies Act 1958  13

(a) has ceased to be engaged by the licensee to perform such
     work; and

(b) continues to be registered as an employment agency
     personnel of the licensee,

unless the licensee has applied to deregister the person in accordance
with subsection (8).

                                                                             [12A

Registration cards

 13.—(1) Upon the registration of an employment agency personnel
under section 12, the licensee concerned must issue a registration card
to the employment agency personnel in such form as may be
prescribed.

 (2) Any person who —

       (a) forges or unlawfully alters a registration card;

       (b) uses or has in that person’s possession any forged or
            unlawfully altered registration card;

       (c) uses a registration card which is not issued to that person;
            or

       (d) without reasonable excuse, gives or sells any registration
            card,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $15,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (3) Any licensee who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $1,000; and

       (b) in respect of a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not
            exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 6 months or to both.
                                                                             [12B

                                        31.12.2021
14       Employment Agencies Act 1958                     2020 Ed.

Appeals

 14.—(1) Any person who is aggrieved by a decision of the
Commissioner to —

    (a) refuse to grant or renew a licence under section 7(2);

    (b) debar that person from applying or being granted a licence
         under section 7(5);

    (c) suspend or revoke a licence under section 10(1);

    (d) refuse to register an employment agency personnel under
         section 12(3); or

    (e) deregister an employment agency personnel under
        section 12(10),

may, within 14 days of the date of receipt of the notice of the decision,
appeal in writing to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (2) The Minister may, by writing under the hand of the Minister,
delegate all or any of his or her powers under this section (except this
power of delegation) to any public officer.

 (3) A delegation under subsection (2) is revocable at will and no
delegation prevents the exercise of any power under this section by
the Minister.

 (4) A power so delegated, when exercised by the delegate, is, for
the purposes of this section, deemed to have been exercised by the
Minister.

                                                                               [13

Fees for services rendered

 15.—(1) It is lawful for a licensee to charge and receive such fees as
may be prescribed.

 (2) A licensee must not charge or receive any form of fees,
remuneration, profit or compensation otherwise than as provided in
this Act.

                                                                               [14
2020 Ed.  Employment Agencies Act 1958  15

Offer of fees, etc., prohibited

 16.—(1) A licensee or employment agency personnel must not give
or offer to give (whether directly or indirectly) to an employer or a
prospective employer, any sum or other benefit —

(a) as consideration or as inducement for employing a person
     as the employee of the employer or prospective employer;

(b) as consideration or as inducement for continuing to employ
     a person as the employee of the employer or prospective
     employer; or

          (c) as a financial guarantee related, whether directly or
              indirectly, to the employment of a person as the
              employee of the employer or prospective employer.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

                                                                               [15

Powers of employment agency inspector

 17.—(1) An employment agency inspector has, for the purposes of
this Act, power to do all or any of the following:

       (a) to enter and search, by day or by night, any premises or part
            thereof when he or she has reasonable cause to believe that
            evidence of the commission of an offence under this Act
            can be found therein;

       (b) to require any person, whom the employment agency
            inspector has reason to believe has any document or
            information relevant to any investigation carried out by
            him or her under this Act, to produce that document or give
            that information;

       (c) to retain any document relevant to any investigation
            carried out by him or her under this Act;

                                        31.12.2021
16  Employment Agencies Act 1958  2020 Ed.

    (d) to examine orally any person supposed to be acquainted
         with the facts and circumstances relevant to any
         investigation carried out by him or her under this Act,
         and to reduce into writing the answer given or statement
         made by that person who is bound to state truly the facts
         and circumstances with which that person is acquainted;
         and the statement made by that person must be read over to
         him or her and must, after correction, be signed by him or
         her;

    (e) to require by written order the attendance before him or her
        of any person who, from information given or otherwise,
        appears to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances
        relevant to any investigation carried out by him or her
        under this Act, and that person must so attend as required
        and if that person fails to attend as so required, to report
        such failure to a Magistrate who may thereupon issue a
        warrant to secure the attendance of that person as required
        by the order;

    (f) to take any photographs, or audio or video recording, that
        he or she thinks necessary of the premises and persons
        reasonably believed to be acquainted with the facts and
        circumstances relevant to any investigation carried out by
        him or her under this Act;

    (g) to require any person to produce any article which is
         relevant to any investigation carried out by him or her
         under this Act and, if necessary, to take into custody that
         article.

 (2) An employment agency inspector may require the occupier of
any premises and the occupier’s agents and any person found in the
premises to provide such means required by the employment agency
inspector as necessary for any entry, search, examination or
investigation, the taking of photographs or audio or video
recordings, the taking of articles into custody or otherwise in the
exercise of his or her powers under this Act.
2020 Ed.  Employment Agencies Act 1958  17

(3) If any person —

(a) intentionally offers any resistance to or wilfully delays an
     employment agency inspector in the exercise of any power
     under this section;

(b) fails to comply with the requisition of an employment
     agency inspector under this section;

          (c) fails to produce any document which that person is
              required by or under this section to produce; or

(d) conceals or prevents or attempts to conceal or prevent a
     person from appearing before or being examined by an
     employment agency inspector,

that person is deemed, for the purposes of section 33(4), to obstruct an
employment agency inspector in the exercise of his or her powers.

 (4) Every employment agency inspector has authority to appear in
court and may, with the authorisation of the Public Prosecutor,
conduct any prosecution in respect of any offence under this Act.

                                                                               [18

Power to arrest without warrant

 18.—(1) Any police officer or employment agency inspector may
arrest without warrant any person whom he or she reasonably
believes to be carrying on an employment agency or performing any
work or activity mentioned in section 6(2) without a licence.

 (2) An employment agency inspector making an arrest without
warrant must, without unnecessary delay and subject to
subsection (3), take or send the person arrested before a
Magistrate’s Court.

 (3) An employment agency inspector must not detain in custody a
person arrested without warrant for longer than is reasonable in the
circumstances, and such period must not exceed 48 hours exclusive
of the time necessary for the journey from the place of arrest to the
Magistrate’s Court.

                                        31.12.2021
18  Employment Agencies Act 1958  2020 Ed.

 (4) Any person who has been arrested by an employment agency
inspector may be released on bail, or on that person’s own bond.

                                                                               [19

Arrest how made

 19.—(1) In making an arrest, an employment agency inspector
making the arrest must touch or confine the body of the person to be
arrested unless the person submits to arrest by word or action.

 (2) If the person forcibly resists or tries to evade arrest, the
employment agency inspector may use all means necessary to effect
the arrest.

                                                                             [19A

No unnecessary restraint

 20.—(1) The person arrested must not be subjected to more
restraint than is necessary to prevent his or her escape.

 (2) An employment agency inspector may use handcuffs or any
similar means of restraint on a person arrested to prevent him or her
from —

       (a) inflicting any bodily injury to himself, herself or others;

       (b) damaging any property;

       (c) creating any disturbance; or

       (d) escaping from custody.

 (3) The handcuffs or means of restraint must not be used for the
purpose of punishment.

                                                                             [19B

Search of persons arrested

 21.—(1) When a person is arrested, the employment agency
inspector making the arrest may search the person and take
possession of all articles (other than necessary wearing apparel)
found upon the person that the employment agency inspector has
reason to believe were connected with the offence for which the
person was being arrested.
2020 Ed.  Employment Agencies Act 1958  19

 (2) Whenever it is necessary to cause a person to be searched, the
search must be made by an employment agency inspector of the same
sex as the person, with strict regard to decency.

                                                                             [19C

Employment agency inspector to be armed

 22. Every employment agency inspector must be provided with
such batons and accoutrements as may be necessary for the effective
discharge of his or her duties.

                                                                             [19D

Power to seize offensive weapons

 23. An employment agency inspector making any arrest may take
from the person arrested any offensive weapons which the person has
about his or her person.

                                                                             [19E

Power on escape to pursue and arrest

 24. If a person in lawful custody escapes or is rescued, the
employment agency inspector from whose custody the person
escaped or was rescued may immediately pursue and arrest him or
her in any place within Singapore and deal with that person as the
employment agency inspector might have done on the original arrest.

                                                                             [19F

Disposal of documents or articles

 25.—(1) Any document or article produced, retained or
requisitioned under section 17(1)(b), (c) or (g), 21 or 23 must —

       (a) where the document or article is produced in any criminal
            trial, be dealt with in accordance with section 364 of the
            Criminal Procedure Code 2010; or

       (b) in any other case —

               (i) be returned to the owner; or

              (ii) if the owner is not known, be reported to a
                   Magistrate’s Court.

                                        31.12.2021
20  Employment Agencies Act 1958  2020 Ed.

 (2) Where the report of any document or article produced, retained

or requisitioned under section 17(1)(b), (c) or (g), 21 or 23 is made to
a Magistrate’s Court under subsection (1)(b)(ii), the Magistrate’s
Court may order the document or article —

    (a) to be forfeited; or

    (b) to be disposed of in any manner that the Magistrate’s Court
         thinks fit.

 (3) Nothing in this section affects any right to retain or dispose of
property which may exist in law apart from this section.

                                                                             [19G

Complaint by employment agency inspector

 26. For the purpose of section 151 of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, on receiving the complaint in writing and signed by any
employment agency inspector, the Magistrate must proceed to issue a
summons or warrant in accordance with section 153 of that Code.

                                                                             [19H

Power to enter and inspect premises

 27. The Commissioner or any employment agency inspector may,
subject to any rules made under this Act, at any reasonable time, and
without previous notice, enter and inspect any employment agency or
any premises reasonably suspected of being used for the purposes of
an employment agency, and examine all books, or other documents
found in the premises, which may appear to him or her to be the
property of or to have been used for the purposes of an employment
agency and remove them for further examination.

                                                                               [20

Liability of licensee for act of servant and partner

 28. Whenever any licensee would be liable under the provisions of
this Act to any pecuniary penalty or forfeiture for any act, omission,
neglect or default, the licensee shall be liable to the same pecuniary
penalty or forfeiture for every similar act, omission, neglect or
default, of —
2020 Ed.  Employment Agencies Act 1958  21

(a) any agent or servant employed by the licensee in the course
     of the operation of an employment agency in respect of
     which the licensee holds a licence; or

(b) any of the partners, where the employment agency is a
     partnership, limited liability partnership or limited
     partnership.
                                                                       [21

Providing false information

 29. Any person who makes any statement or provides any
information to the Commissioner or any officer authorised under
this Act which the person knows or ought reasonably to know is false
in any material particular or is misleading by reason of the omission
of any material particular shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $15,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                               [22

Offence for persons to engage unlicensed persons

 30.—(1) Any person who, directly or indirectly, engages or uses the
services of a person who has not obtained a licence as required under
section 6 in connection with the employment of any person shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000 for each employee engaged through that person
who has not so obtained a licence.

 (2) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is not
a defence for a defendant to prove that the defendant did not know
that the person has not obtained a licence as required under section 6
unless the defendant further proves that the defendant had exercised
due diligence to ascertain the status of that person.

 (3) For the purpose of subsection (2), a defendant is not to be
deemed to have exercised due diligence unless the defendant had
verified, in such manner as may be prescribed, that the person
mentioned in that subsection has obtained a licence as required under
section 6.

                                                                             [22A

                                        31.12.2021
22  Employment Agencies Act 1958  2020 Ed.

Offence for licensed employment agencies to make certain
applications

 31.—(1) If any employment agency personnel of a licensee makes
any application to the Controller of Work Passes appointed under
section 3 of the Employment of Foreign Manpower Act 1990, which
application is required under that Act, on behalf of —

    (a) any person who has not obtained a licence as required
         under section 6; or

    (b) any person whom the employment agency personnel
         knows or ought reasonably to know has been directed by
         the Commissioner under section 11(4) not to make any
         such application,

the licensee and the employment agency personnel shall each be
guilty of an offence.

 (2) Any person guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall be
liable on conviction —

    (a) to a fine not exceeding $80,000 or to imprisonment for a
         term not exceeding 2 years or to both; and

    (b) in respect of a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not
         exceeding $160,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 4 years or to both.

 (3) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is not
a defence for a defendant to prove that the defendant did not know
that the person has not obtained a licence as required under section 6
unless the defendant further proves that the defendant had exercised
due diligence to ascertain the status of that person.

 (4) For the purpose of subsection (3), a defendant is not to be
deemed to have exercised due diligence unless the defendant had
verified, in such manner as may be prescribed, that the person
mentioned in that subsection has obtained a licence as required under
section 6.

                                                                             [22B
2020 Ed.  Employment Agencies Act 1958  23

Disqualification of key appointment holders or employment
agency personnel

 32.—(1) Despite the provisions of any other written law, any
person who —

(a) is an undischarged bankrupt;

(b) has been convicted, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, of
     an offence involving dishonesty or the conviction for
     which involved a finding that the person had acted
     dishonestly;

          (c) has been convicted, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, of
              an offence involving human trafficking; or

(d) has been a director of, or directly concerned in the
     management of, an employment agency for which a
     licence is obtained under this Act and which licence has
     been revoked,

must not, without the consent in writing of the Commissioner, act or
continue to act as a key appointment holder of any employment
agency in Singapore.

 (2) Despite the provisions of any other written law, any
employment agency personnel (not being a key appointment
holder) who —

(a) has been convicted, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, of
     an offence involving human trafficking; or

(b) has been a director of, or directly concerned in the
     management of, an employment agency for which a
     licence is obtained under this Act and which licence has
     been revoked,

must not, without the consent in writing of the Commissioner, act or
continue to act as an employment agency personnel of any
employment agency in Singapore.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not

                                        31.12.2021
24  Employment Agencies Act 1958  2020 Ed.

exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                                                             [22C

Miscellaneous offences

 33.—(1) Where any employment agency personnel of a licensee,
directly or indirectly, charges or receives for his or her services any
sum greater than the prescribed fee, the licensee and the employment
agency personnel shall each be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 and, in respect of a
second or subsequent offence, to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (2) Where any employment agency personnel of a licensee gives
any information to any person which is relevant to the employment of
any applicant for employment, which the employment agency
personnel knows or ought reasonably to know is false in any
material particular or is misleading by reason of the omission of any
material particular, the licensee and the employment agency
personnel shall each be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $15,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (3) Where any employment agency personnel of a licensee
instigates or induces any person not to employ or engage the
services of another person who did not apply for employment or work
through the licensee, the licensee and the employment agency
personnel shall each be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 and, in respect of a second
or subsequent offence, to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (4) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, obstructs an
employment agency inspector in the exercise of any of his or her
powers under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.
2020 Ed.  Employment Agencies Act 1958  25

 (5) Any licensee who contravenes any of the conditions of the
licence shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                                                               [23

Certain offences deemed to be arrestable offences

 34. Every offence under section 6(4) is deemed to be an arrestable
offence within the meaning of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                               [24

Officers to be public servants

 35. For the purposes of this Act and of the Penal Code 1871, the
Commissioner and other officers appointed or acting under this Act
are deemed to be public servants within the meaning of the Penal
Code 1871.

                                                                               [25

Employment agency deemed to be public place

 36. For the purposes of section 14(1) of the Liquor Control (Supply
and Consumption) Act 2015, the premises of every employment
agency are deemed to be a public place.

                                                                               [26

                                                                                                             [5/2015]

Right of hearing

 37. The Commissioner and any officer authorised by him or her in
writing in that behalf have the right to appear and be heard before a
Magistrate’s Court or District Court in any proceeding under this Act.

                                                                               [27

                                        31.12.2021
26  Employment Agencies Act 1958                      2020 Ed.

Power to deal with evidence taken by another officer

 38. Where the Commissioner, or any officer performing the duties
or exercising the powers conferred on the Commissioner, has, for the
purpose of inquiring into any matter under this Act, taken any
evidence or made any memorandum and is prevented by death,
transfer or other cause from concluding the inquiry, any successor to
the Commissioner or other officer may deal with that evidence or
memorandum as if he or she had taken it down or made it and proceed
with the inquiry from the stage at which his or her predecessor left it.

                                                                               [28

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 39.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on an officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            a partner; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on a partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —
2020 Ed.     Employment Agencies Act 1958                    27

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
     its governing body; or

(b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an
     officer or a member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(5) In this section —

“body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership;

“officer” —

          (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
               partner, member of the committee of management,
               chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
               officer of the body corporate and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity; or

          (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
               than a partnership), means the president, the
               secretary, or any member of the committee of the
               unincorporated association, or any person holding a
               position analogous to that of president, secretary or
               member of such a committee and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (6) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with such modifications as the Minister
considers appropriate, to any body corporate, limited liability
partnership or unincorporated association formed or recognised
under the law of a territory outside Singapore.

                                                                             [28A

                                           31.12.2021
28        Employment Agencies Act 1958  2020 Ed.

Abetment

 40. Any person who abets the commission of an offence under this
Act shall be guilty of the offence and shall be liable on conviction to
be punished with the punishment provided for that offence.

                                                                             [28B

Composition of offences

 41.—(1) The Commissioner or any officer authorised in writing by
the Commissioner may compound any offence under this Act by
collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having committed
the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the following amounts:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

                                                                             [28C

Protection from personal liability

 42. No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against the
Commissioner or any public officer acting under the direction of
the Commissioner for anything which is done with reasonable care
and in good faith in the execution or purported execution of this Act.

                                                                             [28D

Jurisdiction of court

 43. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment in
respect of the offence.

                                                                             [28E

Registers

 44.—(1) The Commissioner may establish, maintain and cause to
be published in any manner that the Commissioner may determine,
one or more registers in respect of —
2020 Ed.  Employment Agencies Act 1958  29

(a) any person or employment agency, or any class thereof,
     exempted under section 4(2);

(b) the holder of any licence granted under section 6, or any
     class thereof;

          (c) the employment agency personnel registered under
              section 12(3), or any class thereof; or

(d) such other information relating to employment agencies
     generally, or to any class of employment agencies, as the
     Commissioner may determine.

 (2) Rules may be made under section 45 to prescribe the manner in
which the registers are established or maintained under
subsection (1), including the details or particulars required to be
entered in the registers.

 (3) Any person may, upon payment of a prescribed fee, inspect and
take an extract from any register established under subsection (1).

 (4) Any extract taken under subsection (3), if certified by the
Commissioner to be a true copy, is admissible as evidence in any legal
proceedings.

                                                                             [28F

Power to make rules

 45.—(1) The Minister may make rules for carrying out the purposes
of this Act and in particular and without limiting the foregoing
powers the Minister may make rules to prescribe —

       (a) the types of employment in respect of which licences may
            be granted;

       (b) the manner, circumstances and conditions under which
            licences may be granted to persons for the purpose of
            operating employment agencies or for performing any
            work or activity mentioned in section 6(2);

       (c) the fees payable to licensees by applicants for employment
            and applicants for employees;

       (d) the fees payable for the application, grant and renewal of
            licences;

                                        31.12.2021
30  Employment Agencies Act 1958  2020 Ed.

    (e) the fee payable for the registration of employment agency
        personnel;

    (f) the forms of licence, applications for the grant or renewal
        of licences, registers and monthly returns;

    (g) the circumstances and conditions under which
         employment agencies or persons may be granted
         permission to place or recruit employees outside
         Singapore;

    (h) the circumstances and conditions under which fees may be
         collected from applicants for employment and applicants
         for employees (as the case may be) and the circumstances
         and conditions under which such fees must, whether in
         whole or in part, be refunded;

    (i) penalties for any contravention of any of the provisions of
        any rules made under this section except that no such
        penalty may exceed $10,000 or 12 months’ imprisonment
        or both;

    (j) the kind and amount of security required to be given under
        this Act, and the circumstances and conditions under which
        the amount of security may be varied;

    (k) the form of the registration card to be issued by a licensee;

    (l) the imposition of any requirement, restriction or
        prohibition on licensees or employment agency
        personnel in relation to the carrying on of any
        employment agency, or the performance of any work or
        activity mentioned in section 6(2);

    (m) any matter relating to the release of any arrested person on
         any bail or bond under this Act; and

    (n) anything that is required or permitted to be prescribed
         under this Act.
2020 Ed.  Employment Agencies Act 1958  31

 (2) All rules made under this section must be published in the
Gazette and must be presented to Parliament as soon as possible after
publication; and if a resolution is passed pursuant to a motion notice
of which has been given for a sitting day not later than the first
available sitting day of Parliament next after the expiry of one month
from the date when the rules are so presented annulling the rules or
any part of the rules as from a specified date, the rules or such part of
the rules (as the case may be) thereupon become void as from that
date but without affecting the validity of anything previously done
under the rules or the making of new rules.

                                                                               [29

                                        31.12.2021
                   LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
           EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES ACT 1958

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Ordinance 47 of 1958 — Employment Agency Ordinance, 1958

Bill           : 180/1958

First Reading  : 5 November 1958

Second and Third Readings : 4 December 1958

Commencement   : 1 January 1959

2. 1970 Revised Edition — Employment Agencies Act (Chapter 244)

Operation      : 31 July 1971

3. Act 11 of 1984 — Employment Agencies (Amendment) Act 1984

Bill           : 4/1984

First Reading  : 17 January 1984

Second and Third Readings : 2 March 1984

Commencement   : 4 May 1984

4. 1985 Revised Edition — Employment Agencies Act (Chapter 92)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

5. Act 30 of 2007 — Employment of Foreign Workers (Amendment)
                           Act 2007

   (Amendments made by section 28 read with item (2) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill           : 17/2007

First Reading  : 9 April 2007

Second and Third Readings : 22 May 2007

Commencement   : 1 July 2007 (section 28 read with
                     item (2) of the Schedule)

6. Act 5 of 2011 — Employment Agencies (Amendment) Act 2011

Bill           : 37/2010

First Reading  : 22 November 2010

Second and Third Readings : 11 January 2011

                                             31.12.2021
                                     ii

       Commencement                  : 1 April 2011 (except section 12)
                                           1 July 2011 (section 12)

7. 2012 Revised Edition — Employment Agencies Act (Chapter 92)

       Operation                     : 30 September 2012

8. Act 5 of 2015 — Liquor Control (Supply and Consumption) Act 2015
   (Amendments made by section 38(4) of the above Act)

       Bill                          : 1/2015

       First Reading                 : 19 January 2015

       Second and Third Readings : 30 January 2015

       Commencement                  : 1 April 2015 (section 38(4))

                                  Abbreviations

C.P.                  Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.              Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S            Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.                  Legislative Assembly

L.N.                  Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

                      Legislation)

M. Act                Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.                 Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.          Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
                 COMPARATIVE TABLE
        EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES ACT 1958

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

        2020 Ed.                    2012 Ed.
                  7—(2A)
7—(3)
   (4)               (3)
   (5)               (4)
                  9 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2011]
—                 10
9                 11
10                12
11                12A
12                12B
13                13
14                14
15                15
16                16 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2011]
—                 17 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2011]
—                 18
17                19
18                19A
19                19B
20                19C
21                19D
22                19E
23                19F
24                19G
25                19H
26

                                      31.12.2021
                 2020 Ed.  ii    2012 Ed.
27
28                          20
29                          21
30                          22
31                          22A
32                          22B
33                          22C
34                          23
35                          24
36                          25
37                          26
38                          27
39                          28
40                          28A
41                          28B
42                          28C
43                          28D
44                          28E
45                          28F
                            29
