                     LEASE AGREEMENTS FOR
                    RETAIL PREMISES ACT 2023

                               (No. 28 of 2023)

                           ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                                            PART 1
                                      PRELIMINARY
Section
     1. Short title and commencement
     2. General interpretation

                                            PART 2
                    FAIR TENANCY INDUSTRY COMMITTEE
     3. Appointment of Fair Tenancy Industry Committee
     4. Functions of Committee

                                            PART 3
                                  CODE OF CONDUCT
     5. Code of Conduct
     6. Compliance with leasing principles in Code of Conduct
     7. Register of declarations of permitted deviations
     8. Restrictions on disclosure of information concerning or
            contained in declarations of permitted deviations

                                            PART 4
                                 DISPUTE RESOLUTION
                     Division 1 — Complaints of non-compliance
     9. Complaints of non-compliance
          Division 2 — Authorised dispute resolution bodies, mediators,
             adjudicators, and mediation and adjudication proceedings
   10. Authorised dispute resolution body, etc.
   11. Reference of complaint of non-compliance to mediator
   12. Reference of complaint of non-compliance to adjudicator

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
2        NO. 28 OF 2023

Section  Stay of court proceedings
         Fees of adjudication proceedings
   13.   Protection from liability for mediators, adjudicators and
   14.   authorised dispute resolution bodies
   15.

         Division 3 — Confidentiality

         Subdivision (1) — General

   16. Interpretation of this Division and application

         Subdivision (2) — Mediation communications

   17. Restrictions on disclosure of mediation communication
   18. Permitted disclosures of mediation communication
   19. Admissibility in evidence of mediation communication
   20. Permission of court or arbitral tribunal for disclosure or

            admission in evidence of mediation communication

         Subdivision (3) — Adjudication communications

   21. Restrictions on disclosure of adjudication communication
   22. Permitted disclosures of adjudication communication

         Division 4 — Mediated and adjudicated outcomes,
                              and enforcement

   23. Settlement agreements in mediation
   24. Settlement agreements in adjudication
   25. Determinations in adjudication
   26. Enforcement of settlement agreements
   27. Enforcement of determinations by adjudicators

         Division 5 — Miscellaneous

   28. Effect on other proceedings

                                           PART 5

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   29. Act to bind Government
   30. Publication of non-compliance with Act or Code of Conduct
   31. Amendment of Schedules
   32. General exemption
   33. Rules of Court
   34. Regulations
   35. Saving and transitional provisions

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
LEASE AGREEMENTS FOR

RETAIL PREMISES                                                     3

Section
            First Schedule — Period of lease, extension or renewal
            Second Schedule — Retail premises

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
4  NO. 28 OF 2023

An Act to establish the Fair Tenancy Industry Committee, the terms
  on which retail premises may be leased, the resolution of disputes
  concerning those terms, and for other matters connected therewith.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
LEASE AGREEMENTS FOR

RETAIL PREMISES                                          5

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the Lease Agreements for Retail Premises Act 2023
and comes into operation on a date that the Minister appoints by
notification in the Gazette.

General interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act —

      “adjudicator” means an adjudicator on the panel of adjudicators;

      “applicant”, in relation to a complaint of non‑compliance, means
         the party that files the complaint with an authorised dispute
         resolution body;

      “authorised dispute resolution body” means an authorised
         dispute resolution body authorised by the Minister under
         section 10(1);

      “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Committee
         appointed under section 3(1);

      “Code of Conduct” means the Code of Conduct for Leasing of
         Retail Premises in Singapore described in section 5(1);

      “Committee” means the Fair Tenancy Industry Committee
         established under section 3;

      “complaint of non-compliance” means a complaint of
         non‑compliance with a leasing principle described in
         section 9(1);

      “declaration of permitted deviation”, in relation to a lease
         agreement, means a joint declaration by the landlord and
         tenant of the qualifying lease to which the lease agreement
         relates, that the landlord and tenant have agreed on a
         permitted deviation in relation to that lease agreement;

      “disclosure”, in relation to any document or information,
         includes permitting access to the document or information;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
6  NO. 28 OF 2023

   “landlord” means the person who grants or proposes to grant the
      right to occupy any retail premises under a lease;

   “law enforcement agency” means any authority or person
      charged with the duty of investigating offences or charging
      offenders under any written law;

   “lease” includes a licence, a sub‑lease and a sub‑licence;

   “lease agreement” means the agreement between a landlord and
      a tenant for a qualifying lease;

   “leasing principles” means the leasing principles referred to as
      such in the Code of Conduct, providing for requirements and
      best practices for landlords and tenants in relation to
      qualifying leases;

   “mediator” means a mediator on the panel of mediators;

   “member” means a member of the Committee;

   “panel of adjudicators” means the panel of adjudicators
      maintained by an authorised dispute resolution body under
      section 10(2)(b);

   “panel of mediators” means the panel of mediators maintained
      by an authorised dispute resolution body under
      section 10(2)(a);

   “parties”, in relation to a complaint of non‑compliance, means
      the applicant and the respondent, and “party” means any
      one of those persons;

   “public authority” means —

           (a) any ministry, department or Organ of State of the
                Government, or a public officer of any ministry,
                department or Organ of State of the Government; or

           (b) a public authority established under any public Act
                for a public purpose or an officer or an employee of
                the public authority;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
LEASE AGREEMENTS FOR

RETAIL PREMISES                                          7

      “qualifying lease” means a lease for retail premises, or an
         extension or a renewal of such lease, where —

              (a) the agreement for the lease, extension or renewal
                   (as the case may be) is signed on or after the date of
                   commencement of Part 3; and

              (b) the period of the lease or the period of the extension
                   or renewal (as the case may be) is or exceeds the
                   period specified in the First Schedule,

         whether or not the lease, extension or renewal is expressed to
         be governed by the law of Singapore;

      “Regulations” means any regulations made under section 34;

      “respondent”, in relation to a complaint of non‑compliance,
         means the party against whom the complaint is filed with an
         authorised dispute resolution body;

      “retail premises” means any premises in Singapore specified in
         the Second Schedule;

      “secretariat” means the secretariat to the Committee appointed
         by the Minister under section 4(2);

      “tenant” means the person who has the right to occupy any retail
         premises under a lease.

 (2) In this Act, where a leasing principle —

       (a) makes it mandatory for any matter to be included in a lease
            agreement; but

       (b) permits the matter to be not so included if the landlord and
            tenant to the lease agreement agree to the same,

the matter that is not so included in the lease agreement with the
agreement of the landlord and tenant, is referred to as a permitted
deviation.

 (3) In this Act, where a leasing principle —

       (a) makes it mandatory for any matter not to be included in a
            lease agreement; but

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
8  NO. 28 OF 2023

       (b) permits the matter to be so included if the landlord and
            tenant to the lease agreement agree to the same,

the matter that is so included in the lease agreement with the
agreement of the landlord and tenant, is referred to as a permitted
deviation.

 (4) In this Act, there is non-compliance with a leasing principle if
the leasing principle is one to which section 6(1) applies and any of
the following occurs:

       (a) where the leasing principle makes it mandatory for any
            matter to be included in a lease agreement — the matter is
            not included in the lease agreement, unless the matter not
            so included is a permitted deviation;

       (b) where the leasing principle makes it mandatory for any
            matter not to be included in a lease agreement — the matter
            is included in the lease agreement, unless the matter so
            included is a permitted deviation;

       (c) where the leasing principle makes it mandatory for any
            matter to be included in the lease agreement and the matter
            is included in the lease agreement — the matter is not
            complied with;

       (d) where any matter included in the lease agreement is a
            permitted deviation or is treated as a term of the lease
            agreement under section 6(4)(b), 23(5)(b) or 24(5)(b) —
            the matter is not complied with.

 (5) Where any lease is extended or renewed (whether or not by
virtue of the exercise of an option to renew in the original lease), each
extension or renewal is treated for the purposes of this Act as if it
were in and of itself a separate lease, and a reference in this Act to the
signing of a lease agreement is to the signing of the agreement or
option for the extension or renewal of the lease by the person or
persons required to sign the same.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
LEASE AGREEMENTS FOR

RETAIL PREMISES                                          9

                                    PART 2

             FAIR TENANCY INDUSTRY COMMITTEE

Appointment of Fair Tenancy Industry Committee

 3.—(1) The Minister may appoint a Fair Tenancy Industry
Committee comprising —

       (a) a Chairperson; and

       (b) any other members that the Minister may determine.

 (2) The members must comprise —

       (a) individuals who in the Minister’s view represent the
            interests of landlords of retail premises;

       (b) individuals who in the Minister’s view represent the
            interests of tenants of retail premises; and

       (c) individuals who in the Minister’s view have expertise
            relevant to the functions of the Committee.

 (3) Each member may be appointed for a term not exceeding
2 years, and may be re‑appointed.

 (4) The Minister may revoke the appointment of any member
before the expiry of the member’s term.

 (5) A member may resign from the Committee by written notice to
the Minister.

 (6) Decisions of the Committee are made by the Chairperson after
consulting with all other members of the Committee.

Functions of Committee

 4.—(1) The Committee has the following functions:

       (a) to review and, with the Minister’s approval, modify the
            Code of Conduct from time to time;

       (b) to monitor and promote compliance by landlords and
            tenants with this Act and the Code of Conduct;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
10  NO. 28 OF 2023

       (c) to establish the process for the submission to the
            Committee of, and maintaining a register for,
            declarations of permitted deviations;

       (d) to gather feedback on matters relating to the leasing of
            retail premises;

       (e) to conduct outreach and education relating to this Act and
            the Code of Conduct and matters relating to the leasing of
            retail premises.

 (2) The Minister may appoint a secretariat to the Committee, to
provide the Committee with any assistance that the Committee
requires in carrying out its functions, including the keeping of proper
accounts for, and records of, the funds for the Committee.

                                    PART 3

                           CODE OF CONDUCT

Code of Conduct

 5.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, the Code of Conduct is the
Code of Conduct for Leasing of Retail Premises in Singapore
(first issued by the Fair Tenancy Pro Tem Committee on 26 March
2021 and subsequently modified by that Committee), as may be
modified from time to time under subsection (3), setting out leasing
and negotiating principles to ensure fair and balanced bargaining
positions between landlords and tenants in the negotiation of
qualifying leases.

 (2) The Committee must publish the Code of Conduct in any
manner that will secure adequate publicity of the Code of Conduct to
landlords and tenants of retail premises.

 (3) Where the Committee proposes to modify the Code of Conduct,
the Committee must —

       (a) obtain the Minister’s approval for the modification; and

       (b) on obtaining the Minister’s approval, publish the Code of
            Conduct (as so modified) in accordance with

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
LEASE AGREEMENTS FOR

RETAIL PREMISES                                          11

            subsection (2) at least 30 days before the Code of Conduct
            (as so modified) is to take effect, specifying —

               (i) the modifications so approved; and

              (ii) the date from and including which the Code of
                   Conduct (as so modified) is to take effect.

 (4) The Committee must also publish the following information in
any manner that will secure its adequate publicity:

       (a) that the latest version of the Code of Conduct, and all other
            versions of the Code of Conduct having effect at any time
            in at least the preceding 5 years before the date of first
            publication of the latest version of the Code of Conduct,
            are available for inspection without charge at the premises
            of the secretariat, during the normal office hours of the
            secretariat;

       (b) if the Code of Conduct is available in any other way, the
            details of where or how it can be so accessed or obtained.

 (5) To avoid doubt, nothing in this section requires the Code of
Conduct or any modification thereto to be published in the Gazette.

 (6) The Committee must maintain such versions of the Code of
Conduct as are necessary for the purpose of an inspection mentioned
in subsection (4)(a), and for the purpose of being accessed or
obtained under subsection (4)(b).

Compliance with leasing principles in Code of Conduct

 6.—(1) The landlord and the tenant of a qualifying lease must
ensure that the lease agreement for that qualifying lease complies
with the leasing principles in force at the time the lease agreement is
signed by the landlord and the tenant.

 (2) Where there is a permitted deviation in the lease agreement, the
landlord must, if required by the leasing principle in question, submit
to the Committee a declaration of permitted deviation for the
permitted deviation.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
12  NO. 28 OF 2023

 (3) The declaration of permitted deviation must be —

       (a) submitted within the period prescribed by the Regulations;
            and

       (b) accompanied by any fee or charge prescribed by the
            Regulations or (if none is prescribed) specified by the
            Committee for the submission, payable to the secretariat.

 (4) Where the landlord fails to comply with subsection (2) or (3) —

       (a) the permitted deviation is void (but not if the permitted
            deviation relates to a rental formula); and

       (b) if the leasing principle provides for any consequence in the
            event of the landlord’s failure, then that consequence may
            be enforced as if it were a term of the lease agreement.

 (5) To avoid doubt, a leasing principle must not provide for any
matter, including compensation, that is inconsistent with the
requirements of any written law or rule of law, and subsection (1)
does not apply in relation to a leasing principle that contravenes this
subsection.

 (6) Part 4 applies in relation to a qualifying lease, despite anything
in the lease agreement.

Register of declarations of permitted deviations

 7. The Committee must maintain —

       (a) a register of declarations of permitted deviations submitted
            to it under this Act; and

       (b) the record of a declaration of permitted deviation in the
            register for at least 5 years after the submission of the
            declaration of permitted deviation to the Committee.

Restrictions on disclosure of information concerning or
contained in declarations of permitted deviations

 8. The Committee and the secretariat must not disclose any
information concerning or contained in a declaration of permitted
deviation for any qualifying lease to any other person, except —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
LEASE AGREEMENTS FOR

RETAIL PREMISES                                          13

(a) with the consent of the persons to whom the information
     relates;

(b) to the extent the information has already been made
     available to the public at the time of its disclosure, other
     than information that is only in the public domain due to an
     unlawful disclosure;

(c) to the extent the information is not disclosed in a form that
     could reasonably be expected to identify any particular
     person;

(d) for the purpose of seeking legal advice;

(e) to the extent that the disclosure is necessary for the
     purposes of, or in connection with —

       (i) any proceeding before a mediator or an adjudicator;

      (ii) the enforcement or disputing of any settlement
            agreement mentioned in section 23 or 24 or any
            determination of an adjudicator mentioned in
            section 14 or 25; or

      (iii) any proceeding before a court or an arbitral tribunal
            or any other dispute resolution proceeding;

(f) to the extent the disclosure is required by an order of court,
     or required or authorised by or under any written law;

(g) to the extent the disclosure is made in compliance with a
     request or requirement imposed by a public authority and is
     necessary to enable the public authority to perform its
     duties or discharge its functions;

(h) to the extent the disclosure is made to assist a law
     enforcement agency in the investigation of any offence
     under any written law;

(i) to the extent the information relates to the commission of
     any offence under any written law or was given in
     furtherance of any illegal purpose; or

(j) to the extent that the disclosure is required or permitted for
     any purpose under this Act.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
14  NO. 28 OF 2023

                                    PART 4

                         DISPUTE RESOLUTION

              Division 1 — Complaints of non-compliance

Complaints of non-compliance

 9.—(1) A landlord or a tenant under a qualifying lease may file with
an authorised dispute resolution body a complaint that there has been
a non‑compliance with a leasing principle in relation to their lease
agreement.

 (2) The complaint of non-compliance must —

       (a) be filed with an authorised dispute resolution body within
            the period, and in the form and manner, specified by the
            authorised dispute resolution body in its rules and
            procedures under section 10(2)(c);

       (b) be accompanied by any application fee that may be
            determined by the authorised dispute resolution body in
            its rules and procedures under section 10(2)(c); and

       (c) contain or be accompanied by —

               (i) any information or documents that may be specified
                   by the authorised dispute resolution body in its rules
                   and procedures under section 10(2)(c); and

              (ii) any other information or documents that the
                   applicant may consider to be relevant to the
                   complaint of non‑compliance.

 (3) A party that has filed a complaint of non‑compliance must
notify the respondent of the complaint of non‑compliance within the
period, and in the form and manner, specified by the authorised
dispute resolution body in its rules and procedures under
section 10(2)(c).

 (4) The requirements in subsections (2) and (3) are subject to any
provision to the contrary in the Regulations.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
LEASE AGREEMENTS FOR

RETAIL PREMISES                                          15

   Division 2 — Authorised dispute resolution bodies, mediators,
     adjudicators, and mediation and adjudication proceedings

Authorised dispute resolution body, etc.

 10.—(1) The Minister may —

       (a) authorise any person to be an authorised dispute resolution
            body for the purposes of this Part, subject to any terms and
            conditions that the Minister thinks fit; and

       (b) withdraw any such authorisation.

 (2) An authorised dispute resolution body must —

       (a) maintain a panel of mediators for the purposes of this Part;

       (b) maintain a panel of adjudicators for the purposes of this
            Part;

       (c) maintain rules and procedures (not inconsistent with this
            Act or any other written law) for mediations and
            adjudications under this Act, including in relation to a
            notification under section 9(3) and the response, reply and
            other documents to be filed subsequent to a complaint of
            non‑compliance;

       (d) provide administrative support to facilitate the conduct of
            such mediations and adjudications;

       (e) establish a schedule of fees payable to the authorised
            dispute resolution body for mediation and adjudication
            services provided under or by virtue of this Act, including
            mediators’ and adjudicators’ fees, and the persons by
            whom the fees are to be borne or shared in any proportion;

        (f) abide by any Regulations; and

       (g) undertake any other functions or duties that may be
            imposed under this Act or as may be directed by the
            Minister.

 (3) Despite the schedule of fees established under subsection (2)(e),
the fees payable to the authorised dispute resolution body for
mediation and adjudication services provided under or by virtue of
this Act are subject to any amounts prescribed by the Regulations.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
16  NO. 28 OF 2023

 (4) An individual may be on both the panel of mediators and the
panel of adjudicators, but the individual must, in relation to any
complaint of non‑compliance, only be appointed to act either as a
mediator or as an adjudicator, and not as both.

Reference of complaint of non-compliance to mediator

 11.—(1) On receipt of a complaint of non‑compliance, the
authorised dispute resolution body must appoint a mediator from
its panel of mediators —

       (a) to mediate between the parties; and

       (b) to assist the parties to settle the dispute or disputes that is or
            are the subject of the complaint, including any variation to
            the lease agreement agreed by the parties.

 (2) A mediator must, in mediating any dispute that is the subject of
a complaint of non‑compliance —

       (a) act independently, impartially and in a timely manner; and

       (b) avoid incurring unnecessary expense.

Reference of complaint of non-compliance to adjudicator

 12.—(1) If the mediation under section 11 does not result in a
settlement agreement between the parties on a dispute, the party that
filed the complaint of non‑compliance may apply to the authorised
dispute resolution body for an adjudicator from its panel of
adjudicators to be appointed to hear and determine the dispute, and
the authorised dispute resolution body must so appoint an adjudicator.

 (2) The application under subsection (1) must be made within the
period prescribed by the Regulations or (if none is prescribed)
specified by the authorised dispute resolution body in its rules and
procedures under section 10(2)(c).

 (3) An adjudicator must, in hearing and determining any dispute
that is the subject of a complaint of non‑compliance —

       (a) act independently, impartially and in a timely manner;

       (b) avoid incurring unnecessary expense; and

       (c) comply with the principles of natural justice.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
LEASE AGREEMENTS FOR

RETAIL PREMISES                                          17

Stay of court proceedings

 13.—(1) Where there are any proceedings before a court in respect
of any matter which is the subject of a complaint of non‑compliance,
any party may apply to that court to stay the proceedings so far as the
proceedings relate to that matter.

 (2) The court hearing the application may make an order, on any
terms or conditions that the court thinks fit, staying the proceedings
so far as the proceedings relate to that matter.

 (3) The court may, in making an order under subsection (2), make
any interim or supplementary orders that the court thinks fit for the
purpose of preserving the rights of the parties.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, a reference to a party includes a
reference to any person claiming through or under a party.

 (5) To avoid doubt, this section applies whether the proceedings
before the court were commenced before the filing of the complaint
of non‑compliance or during the course of any mediation or
adjudication conducted following the filing of the complaint of
non‑compliance.

Fees of adjudication proceedings

 14. Where any provision in the schedule of fees mentioned in
section 10(2)(e) requires a party (A) to pay any fees to the authorised
dispute resolution body, an adjudicator may determine that another
party (B) must pay to A an amount representing some or all of the
fees, if the adjudicator is satisfied that —

       (a) the fees relating to the adjudication are occasioned by any
            frivolous or vexatious conduct of, or unfounded
            submissions by, B; or

       (b) it is fair in all the circumstances of the case to so decide.

Protection from liability for mediators, adjudicators and
authorised dispute resolution bodies

 15.—(1) No liability shall lie against a mediator or an adjudicator
with respect to anything done or omitted to be done in good faith in

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
18  NO. 28 OF 2023

the discharge or purported discharge of the mediator’s or
adjudicator’s functions or duties under this Act.

 (2) No liability shall lie against an authorised dispute resolution
body or any person acting under the direction of an authorised dispute
resolution body —

       (a) with respect to anything done or omitted to be done in good
            faith in the discharge or purported discharge of the
            authorised dispute resolution body’s function of
            appointing mediators and adjudicators under this Act; and

       (b) with respect to anything done or omitted to be done in good
            faith and with reasonable care in the discharge or purported
            discharge of any other functions or duties of the authorised
            dispute resolution body under this Act.

 (3) No liability shall lie against an authorised dispute resolution
body for anything done or omitted to be done by an individual
appointed by the authorised dispute resolution body under this Act as
a mediator or an adjudicator, in the discharge or purported discharge
of the individual’s functions or duties as such, by reason only of the
authorised dispute resolution body having appointed the individual as
such.

                       Division 3 — Confidentiality
                         Subdivision (1) — General
Interpretation of this Division and application
 16.—(1) In this Division —
      “adjudication communication”, in relation to an adjudication,
         means —
              (a) anything said or done;
              (b) any document prepared; or
              (c) any information provided,
         for the purposes of or in the course of an adjudication,
         including a settlement agreement entered into in the course of
         the adjudication;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
LEASE AGREEMENTS FOR

RETAIL PREMISES                                          19

      “mediation communication”, in relation to a mediation,
         means —

              (a) anything said or done;

              (b) any document prepared; or

              (c) any information provided,

         for the purposes of or in the course of a mediation, including a
         settlement agreement resulting from the mediation;

      “third party” —

              (a) in relation to a mediation, means any person who —

                     (i) is not a party to the mediation;

                     (ii) is not a mediator for the mediation; and

                    (iii) is not the authorised dispute resolution body
                          that appointed any mediator for the mediation;
                          and

              (b) in relation to an adjudication, means any person
                   who —

                     (i) is not a party to the adjudication;

                     (ii) is not an adjudicator for the adjudication; and

                    (iii) is not the authorised dispute resolution body
                          that appointed any adjudicator for the
                          adjudication.

 (2) Nothing in this Division prevents an authorised dispute
resolution body from providing the Committee or a public
authority with the following information:

       (a) the number of complaints of non-compliance received by
            the authorised dispute resolution body in any given period;

       (b) the number or percentage of those complaints lodged by
            landlords, and by tenants;

       (c) the number or percentage of those complaints resolved
            through mediation;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
20  NO. 28 OF 2023

    (d) the number or percentage of those complaints that
         proceeded to adjudication;

    (e) the number or percentage of those complaints for which a
         determination was issued by an adjudicator;

    (f) without affecting paragraph (g), the nature of the disputes
         raised in those complaints, provided in a way that will not
         identify any party;

    (g) where, in relation to a complaint of non‑compliance, an
         adjudication determination has been made under
         section 25(4) that any leasing principle has not been
         complied with, the fact that the determination has been
         made, the names of the parties and the nature of the
         non‑compliance.

             Subdivision (2) — Mediation communications

Restrictions on disclosure of mediation communication

 17.—(1) Subject to section 18, a person must not disclose any
mediation communication to a third party to the mediation.

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), where a complaint of
non‑compliance that has been referred to a mediator under
section 11 is then referred to an adjudicator under section 12, the
mediator must not disclose to the adjudicator any mediation
communication or any other thing concerning the mediation or any
dispute that is the subject of the complaint of non‑compliance.

 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply to any part of a settlement
agreement resulting from a mediation that takes effect as a variation
of a lease agreement under section 23(2).

 (4) Where a mediation communication also becomes an
adjudication communication (pursuant to section 18(1) or (2)), this
Subdivision ceases to apply to the communication.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
LEASE AGREEMENTS FOR

RETAIL PREMISES                                          21

Permitted disclosures of mediation communication

 18.—(1) Despite section 17(1) but subject to section 17(2), a person
may disclose a mediation communication to a third party to the
mediation if —

       (a) the disclosure is made with the consent of —

               (i) all the parties to the mediation; and

              (ii) for a mediation communication that is made by a
                   person other than a party to the mediation, the maker
                   of the mediation communication;

       (b) the content of the mediation communication is information
            that has already been made available to the public at the
            time of its disclosure, other than information that is only in
            the public domain due to an unlawful disclosure;

       (c) the disclosure is made for research, evaluation or
            educational purposes without revealing, or being likely
            to reveal, whether directly or indirectly, the identity of the
            maker of the mediation communication or any person to
            whom the mediation communication relates;

       (d) the disclosure is made for the purpose of seeking legal
            advice;

       (e) the disclosure is required by an order of court, or required
            or authorised by or under any written law;

        (f) the disclosure is in compliance with a request or
            requirement imposed by a public authority and is
            necessary to enable the public authority to perform its
            duties or discharge its functions;

       (g) the disclosure is made to assist a law enforcement agency
            in the investigation of any offence under any written law;
            or

       (h) the mediation communication relates to the commission of
            any offence under any written law or was made in
            furtherance of any illegal purpose.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
22  NO. 28 OF 2023

 (2) Despite subsection (1), a person may, with the permission of a
court or an arbitral tribunal under section 20, disclose a mediation
communication to a third party to the mediation —

       (a) for the purpose of enforcing or disputing a settlement
            agreement resulting from the mediation;

       (b) for the purpose of establishing or disputing an allegation or
            a complaint of professional misconduct against a mediator
            or any other person who participated in the mediation in a
            professional capacity;

       (c) for the purpose of discovery or other similar procedures in
            any court proceedings or arbitral proceedings (as the case
            may be) which have been instituted for the production of
            documents, where the person who is a party to those
            proceedings is required to produce documents in the
            person’s possession or control; or

       (d) for any other purpose that the court or arbitral tribunal
            (as the case may be) considers justifiable in the
            circumstances of the case.

Admissibility in evidence of mediation communication

 19. A mediation communication is not to be admitted in evidence in
any court, arbitral or disciplinary proceedings except with the
permission of a court or an arbitral tribunal under section 20.

Permission of court or arbitral tribunal for disclosure or
admission in evidence of mediation communication

 20.—(1) A court or an arbitral tribunal may, on application by any
person, grant permission for a mediation communication to be
disclosed under section 18(2) or admitted in evidence under
section 19.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the court or arbitral tribunal
(as the case may be) must take into account all of the following
matters in deciding whether to grant permission:

       (a) whether the mediation communication may be or has been
            disclosed under section 18(1);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
LEASE AGREEMENTS FOR

RETAIL PREMISES                                          23

       (b) whether it is in the public interest or the interests of the
            administration of justice for the mediation communication
            to be disclosed or admitted in evidence;

       (c) any other circumstances or matters that the court or arbitral
            tribunal (as the case may be) considers relevant.

 (3) Where the mediation communication is sought to be disclosed
or admitted in evidence in proceedings —

       (a) before a court — the application must be made to the court
            before which the proceedings are heard;

       (b) before an arbitral tribunal — the application must be made
            to the arbitral tribunal before which the proceedings are
            heard; and

       (c) in any other case — the application must be made to the
            General Division of the High Court.

           Subdivision (3) — Adjudication communications

Restrictions on disclosure of adjudication communication

 21.—(1) Subject to section 22, a person must not disclose any
adjudication communication to a third party to the adjudication.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to any part of a settlement
agreement entered into in the course of an adjudication that takes
effect as a variation of a lease agreement under section 24(2).

Permitted disclosures of adjudication communication

 22. Despite section 21(1), a person may disclose an adjudication
communication to a third party to the adjudication —

       (a) if the disclosure is made with the consent of —

               (i) all the parties to the adjudication; and

              (ii) for an adjudication communication that is made by a
                   person other than a party to the adjudication, the
                   maker of the adjudication communication;

       (b) if the content of the adjudication communication is
            information that has already been made available to the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
24  NO. 28 OF 2023

         public at the time of its disclosure, other than information
         that is only in the public domain due to an unlawful
         disclosure;

    (c) if the disclosure is made for research, evaluation or
         educational purposes without revealing, or being likely
         to reveal, whether directly or indirectly, the identity of the
         maker of the adjudication communication or any person to
         whom the adjudication communication relates;

    (d) if the disclosure is made for the purpose of seeking legal
         advice;

    (e) if the disclosure is required by an order of court, or
         required or authorised by or under any written law;

    (f) if the disclosure is in compliance with a request or
         requirement imposed by a public authority and is
         necessary to enable the public authority to perform its
         duties or discharge its functions;

    (g) if the disclosure is made to assist a law enforcement agency
         in the investigation of any offence under any written law;

    (h) if the adjudication communication relates to the
         commission of any offence under any written law or was
         made in furtherance of any illegal purpose;

    (i) to the extent that the disclosure is necessary for the
         purposes of, or in connection with, the adjudication, the
         enforcement of any determination of an adjudicator
         mentioned in section 14 or 25(4), or any proceeding
         before a court or an arbitral tribunal or any other dispute
         resolution proceeding;

    (j) for the purpose of establishing or disputing an allegation or
         a complaint of professional misconduct against an
         adjudicator or any other person who participated in the
         adjudication in a professional capacity; or

    (k) for the purpose of discovery or other similar procedures in
         any court proceedings or arbitral proceedings (as the case
         may be) which have been instituted for the production of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
LEASE AGREEMENTS FOR

RETAIL PREMISES                                          25

documents, where the person who is a party to those
proceedings is required to produce documents in the
person’s possession or control.

          Division 4 — Mediated and adjudicated outcomes,
                               and enforcement

Settlement agreements in mediation

 23.—(1) The parties must set out their settlement of any dispute
resulting from mediation, in a settlement agreement in writing.

 (2) Where, by any part of the settlement agreement, the parties have
agreed to vary the lease agreement that was the subject of the
mediation, that part of the settlement agreement takes effect as a
variation of the lease agreement.

 (3) Where any part of the lease agreement as varied in accordance
with subsection (2) includes any permitted deviation, the landlord
must, if required by the leasing principle in question, submit to the
Committee a declaration of permitted deviation for the permitted
deviation.

 (4) The declaration of permitted deviation must —

       (a) be submitted within the period prescribed by the
            Regulations; and

       (b) be accompanied by any fee or charge prescribed by the
            Regulations or (if none is prescribed) specified by the
            Committee for the submission, payable to the secretariat.

 (5) Where the landlord fails to comply with subsection (3) or (4) —

       (a) the permitted deviation is void (but not if the permitted
            deviation relates to a rental formula); and

       (b) if the leasing principle provides for any consequence in the
            event of the landlord’s failure, then that consequence may
            be enforced as if it were a term of the lease agreement.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
26  NO. 28 OF 2023

Settlement agreements in adjudication

 24.—(1) At any time before an adjudicator determines any dispute,
the parties may settle the dispute, and set out their settlement in a
settlement agreement in writing.

 (2) Where, by any part of the settlement agreement, the parties have
agreed to vary the lease agreement that was the subject of the
adjudication, that part of the settlement agreement takes effect as a
variation of the lease agreement.

 (3) Where any part of the lease agreement as varied in accordance
with subsection (2) includes any permitted deviation, the landlord
must, if required by the leasing principle in question, submit to the
Committee a declaration of permitted deviation for the permitted
deviation.

 (4) The declaration of permitted deviation must —

       (a) be submitted within the period prescribed by the
            Regulations; and

       (b) be accompanied by any fee or charge prescribed by the
            Regulations or (if none is prescribed) specified by the
            Committee for the submission, payable to the secretariat.

 (5) Where the landlord fails to comply with subsection (3) or (4) —

       (a) the permitted deviation is void (but not if the permitted
            deviation relates to a rental formula); and

       (b) if the leasing principle provides for any consequence in the
            event of the landlord’s failure, then that consequence may
            be enforced as if it were a term of the lease agreement.

Determinations in adjudication

 25.—(1) Subject to section 12(3) and to any rules and procedures
established by the authorised dispute resolution body under
section 10(2)(c) (being rules and procedures not inconsistent with
any requirement under this Act), an adjudicator may —

       (a) conduct the adjudication proceedings in any manner that
            the adjudicator thinks fit;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
LEASE AGREEMENTS FOR

RETAIL PREMISES                                          27

       (b) require submissions or documents from any party and set
            deadlines for their submission; and

       (c) issue any directions (not inconsistent with any requirement
            under this Act) that may be necessary or expedient for the
            conduct of the case.

 (2) The parties to a complaint of non‑compliance must comply with
any requirement made or direction issued by the adjudicator in
accordance with this section.

 (3) An adjudicator’s power to determine any dispute that is the
subject of a complaint of non‑compliance is not affected by the failure
of —

       (a) the respondent to file a response; or

       (b) any of the parties to comply with or carry out any
            requirement made or direction issued by the adjudicator
            under this section,

and in the event of any such failure, the adjudicator may determine
the dispute based on the information and documents available to the
adjudicator.

 (4) The adjudicator must, in relation to any dispute that is the
subject of a complaint of non‑compliance (unless the dispute has been
settled under section 24) —

       (a) make a determination whether there has been
            non‑compliance with a leasing principle as alleged by
            the party that filed the complaint of non‑compliance; and

       (b) where the determination is that there has been such
            non‑compliance, make a further determination, as may
            be applicable —

               (i) that the lease agreement must be varied in order to
                   correct the non‑compliance; or

              (ii) as to any compensation provided by the leasing
                   principle for the non‑compliance that should be paid.

 (5) The determination of the adjudicator must be in writing.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
28  NO. 28 OF 2023

 (6) The determination of the adjudicator is binding on the parties
and on any person claiming through or under them, unless or until —

       (a) permission of the court to enforce the adjudication
            determination is refused under section 27;

       (b) the dispute is finally determined by a court or an arbitral
            tribunal or at any other dispute resolution proceeding; or

       (c) the dispute is settled by agreement of the parties.

Enforcement of settlement agreements

 26.—(1) Any party to a settlement agreement mentioned in
section 23 or 24 may, in relation to a dispute in respect of which
the settlement agreement was entered into and for which no
proceedings have been commenced in a court, with the consent of
all the other parties to that settlement agreement, apply to record the
settlement agreement as an order of court.

 (2) The application must —

       (a) be made to the court within whose jurisdiction the subject
            matter of the dispute would fall; and

       (b) be accompanied by an affidavit by the applicant setting out
            or exhibiting the settlement agreement, and the consent of
            all the other parties to the settlement agreement for the
            settlement agreement to be recorded as an order of that
            court.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), the court may record the settlement
agreement as an order of court if the settlement agreement —

       (a) is in writing and signed by or on behalf of all the parties to
            the settlement agreement; and

       (b) contains any information that may be prescribed by rules
            made under section 33.

 (4) The court may refuse to record the settlement agreement as an
order of court if —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
LEASE AGREEMENTS FOR

RETAIL PREMISES                                          29

       (a) the settlement agreement is void or voidable because of
            incapacity, fraud, misrepresentation, duress, coercion,
            mistake or any other ground for invalidating a contract;

       (b) any term of the settlement agreement is not capable of
            enforcement as an order of court; or

       (c) the recording of the settlement agreement as an order of
            court is contrary to public policy.

 (5) A settlement agreement that is recorded under this section as an
order of court may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment
given or an order made by the court.

Enforcement of determinations by adjudicators

 27.—(1) Any determination of an adjudicator under section 14 or
25(4) (called in this section the adjudication determination) may, with
the permission of the court within whose jurisdiction the subject
matter of the dispute that is the subject of a complaint of
non‑compliance to which the determination relates would fall, be
enforced in the same manner as a judgment or an order of the court to
the same effect.

 (2) Where permission of the court is so granted, judgment may be
entered in the terms of the adjudication determination.

 (3) An application for permission to enforce an adjudication
determination filed in court under this section must be
accompanied by an affidavit by the applicant stating that the
adjudication determination has not been complied with, or (as the
case may be) stating the part of the adjudication determination that
has not been complied with.

 (4) A party to an adjudication may commence proceedings in the
General Division of the High Court to set aside the adjudication
determination or a judgment obtained pursuant to this section, but
that party must pay into court as security the unpaid portion of the
amount that that party is required to pay under the adjudication
determination (if any), in any manner that the General Division of the
High Court directs or as provided in the Rules of Court, pending the
final determination of those proceedings.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
30  NO. 28 OF 2023

 (5) The grounds on which a party to an adjudication may
commence proceedings under subsection (4) include, but are not
limited to, the following:

       (a) the application for adjudication was not made in
            accordance with the provisions of this Act;

       (b) the adjudicator failed to comply with the provisions of this
            Act in making the adjudication determination;

       (c) a breach of the rules of natural justice occurred in
            connection with the making of the adjudication
            determination;

       (d) the making of the adjudication determination was induced
            or affected by fraud or corruption.

 (6) A party that was a respondent in the adjudication may not
commence proceedings under subsection (4) on any ground that the
party did not raise as a response to the dispute under the adjudication,
unless —

       (a) the circumstances to support that ground only arose after
            the party lodged the adjudication response with the
            authorised dispute resolution body; or

       (b) the party could not reasonably have known of those
            circumstances when lodging the adjudication response
            with the authorised dispute resolution body.

 (7) Without affecting its powers under any other written law or rule
of law, the General Division of the High Court may, in any
proceedings under subsection (4) —

       (a) set aside an adjudication determination in whole or in part;

       (b) remit the whole or any part of the adjudication
            determination to an adjudicator to be appointed by the
            authorised dispute resolution body;

       (c) correct in the adjudication determination any clerical
            mistake, error arising from an accidental slip or
            omission, or defect of form; and

       (d) award costs to any party to an adjudication.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
LEASE AGREEMENTS FOR

RETAIL PREMISES                                          31

 (8) Where the court makes an order of remission under
subsection (7)(b) —

       (a) section 25 applies, with the necessary modifications, to the
            determination of the remitted issues by the adjudicator, as
            if the remitted issues were issues in an adjudication that
            commenced on a date specified by the court in the order;
            and

       (b) the adjudicator’s determination of the remitted issues has
            effect as if it were an adjudication determination.

                        Division 5 — Miscellaneous

Effect on other proceedings

 28.—(1) Nothing in this Act prevents any party from challenging
the party’s lease agreement (including as varied pursuant to this Act)
as to whether or not the lease agreement complies with this Act, or
any determination under section 25(4), in any proceeding before a
court or an arbitral tribunal or in any other dispute resolution
proceeding.

 (2) To avoid doubt, nothing in this Act prevents an appeal from a
decision of the court under section 26 or 27, in accordance with the
Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969.

                                    PART 5

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Act to bind Government

 29.—(1) This Act binds the Government.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), the Government is not required to
comply with any obligation under this Act that is inconsistent with
any obligation of the Government under any other written law.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
32  NO. 28 OF 2023

Publication of non-compliance with Act or Code of Conduct

 30. The Committee may publish any details of non‑compliance
with this Act or the Code of Conduct, obtained by the Committee
under or pursuant to this Act, as the Committee thinks necessary or
expedient in the interest of landlords and tenants of retail premises
generally.

Amendment of Schedules

 31. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend the First or
Second Schedule.

General exemption

 32. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, either permanently
or for any period that the Minister thinks fit, exempt any person or
premises or any class of persons or premises from all or any of the
provisions of this Act, subject to any conditions specified in the order.

Rules of Court

 33.—(1) The Rules Committee constituted under section 80(3) of
the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969 may make Rules of Court
regulating the practice and procedure of the Court of Appeal, the
Appellate and General Divisions of the High Court and the State
Courts in respect of any matter under this Act.

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), the Rules of Court made under
that subsection may make provision for the time during which
applications under sections 26 and 27 may be made, and for any other
information that may be required in the affidavits accompanying the
applications.

 (3) All Rules of Court made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Regulations

 34.—(1) The Minister may make regulations as may be necessary
or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this
Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
LEASE AGREEMENTS FOR

RETAIL PREMISES                                          33

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), the regulations may make
provision in respect of —

       (a) the procedure and practice for a proceeding before a
            mediator or an adjudicator, including requiring the
            proceeding to be held in private and the treatment of
            confidential information;

       (b) the forms to be used and the information or documents to
            be given for the proceedings;

       (c) the manner in which authorised dispute resolution bodies,
            mediators or adjudicators are to exercise their functions or
            perform their duties;

       (d) the manner of giving or serving any document and when it
            is deemed given or served for the purposes of this Act;

       (e) the extension (including by a mediator or an adjudicator) of
            any time within which any document is to be submitted,
            filed, given or served, for the purposes of this Act;

        (f) the fees and charges, the method of payment, and the
            person to whom the fees and charges must be paid, for
            anything to be done by the Committee under or for the
            purposes of this Act; and

       (g) anything required to be prescribed or in relation to which
            regulations may be made under this section.

 (3) The power conferred by subsection (1) does not extend to any
matter for which Rules of Court mentioned in section 33 may be
made.

Saving and transitional provisions

 35.—(1) Despite the definition of “qualifying lease” in section 2(1)
read with section 2(5), this Act does not apply to an extension or a
renewal of a lease (whether or not the extension or renewal is by
virtue of the exercise of an option to extend or renew in the original
lease) if —

       (a) the original lease was signed by the landlord and tenant
            before the date of commencement of Part 3;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
34  NO. 28 OF 2023

       (b) the terms of the extension or renewal were agreed between
            the landlord and tenant at the time the lease agreement for
            the original lease was signed; and

       (c) the terms mentioned in paragraph (b) remain unchanged
            throughout the extension or renewal.

 (2) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of any
provision of this Act, the Minister may, by regulations, prescribe such
provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on the
enactment of that provision as the Minister may consider necessary or
expedient.

 (3) Any regulation under subsection (2) may be made to operate
retrospectively to any date, not being a date earlier than the
commencement of the provision of this Act in relation to which the
regulation is made.

                             FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                              Sections 2(1) and 31

                PERIOD OF LEASE, EXTENSION OR RENEWAL

 1. For the purpose of paragraph (b) of the definition of “qualifying lease” in
section 2(1), the period is one year.

 2. For the purpose of paragraph 1, in determining whether the period of a lease is
one year, any period provided in the lease agreement for which the lease may be
extended or renewed or further extended or renewed, is to be disregarded.

                                          Illustration

      A lease agreement signed by a landlord and a tenant on or after the date of
commencement of this Act provides for a lease of retail premises for an initial period of
6 months, and further provides an option to renew for one or more extensions of 6 months
each. The period of the lease is 6 months, so the lease is not a qualifying lease. As the
period of each renewal of the lease is 6 months, each renewal is also not a qualifying lease.
The lease is not a qualifying lease by virtue of the lease being extended such that its total
duration (that is, the sum total of its initial period and any extension) is or exceeds one
year.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
LEASE AGREEMENTS FOR

RETAIL PREMISES                                          35

                           SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                              Sections 2(1) and 31

                                    RETAIL PREMISES

 1. Premises are retail premises if they are used primarily for any of the
following:

        (a) the sale of goods by way of retail;

        (b) the supply of services.

 2. Despite paragraph 1, the premises mentioned in paragraph 1(b) are not retail
premises if they are used primarily for the purpose of conducting administrative
work in connection with the supply of services.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2024
