THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
               HOME TEAM CORPS ACT 2017

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                                                                       2020 Ed.

         Home Team Corps Act 2017

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
     1.
     2.  Short title
     3.  Interpretation
     4.  Establishment of Home Team Corps
     5.  Organisation
     6.  Home Team Corps Council
     7.  Appointment of Commandant
         Appointment of officers, honorary officers and honorary
     8.  instructors
         Secondment of Singapore Police Force and Singapore Civil
     9.  Defence Force personnel
   10.   Eligibility
   11.   Discharge and dismissal of cadets
   12.   Disobedience of regulations, general or routine orders, etc.
   13.   Punishment
   14.   Board of inquiry
   15.   Compensation for death or personal injury
   16.   Exemptions from certain laws
   17.   General and routine orders
   18.   Regulations
         Saving and transitional provisions

An Act to provide for the establishment of a Home Team Corps
  comprising the National Police Cadet Corps and the National Civil
  Defence Cadet Corps, and for matters connected with that.
                                                               [1 March 2018]

Short title
 1. This Act is the Home Team Corps Act 2017.

                                                   1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
2020 Ed.        Home Team Corps Act 2017                            2

Interpretation

2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

“cadet” means an individual enrolled under section 9 in the
   National Police Cadet Corps or the National Civil Defence
   Cadet Corps;

“Commandant” means —

          (a) in relation to the National Police Cadet Corps, the
               Commandant of the National Police Cadet Corps
               appointed under section 6(1)(a); and

          (b) in relation to the National Civil Defence Cadet Corps,
               the Commandant of the National Civil Defence Cadet
               Corps appointed under section 6(1)(b);

“Commissioner of Civil Defence” includes an individual who is
   for the time being exercising the powers of the Commissioner
   of Civil Defence;

“Commissioner of Police” includes an individual who is for the
   time being exercising the powers of the Commissioner of
   Police;

“general or routine order” means a general or routine order
   made, or deemed made, under section 16;

“Home Team Corps” means the National Police Cadet Corps
   and the National Civil Defence Cadet Corps established
   under section 3;

“Home Team Corps Council” means the Home Team Corps
   Council established under section 5;

“member” means an officer of, or a cadet enrolled in, the
   National Police Cadet Corps or the National Civil Defence
   Cadet Corps (as the case may be), and includes an individual
   undergoing an officer cadet course;

“National Civil Defence Cadet Corps” means the corps
   established under section 3(b);

“National Police Cadet Corps” means the corps established
   under section 3(a);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
3  Home Team Corps Act 2017                                  2020 Ed.

   “officer”, for the National Police Cadet Corps or the National
      Civil Defence Cadet Corps, means an individual appointed as
      an officer, an honorary officer or an honorary instructor under
      section 7(1), (2) or (3), respectively, of that Corps;

   “officer‑in‑charge” means an officer for the time being
      commanding a unit of the National Police Cadet Corps or
      the National Civil Defence Cadet Corps, as the case may be;

   “permanent resident” means a permanent resident of Singapore
      as defined by section 2 of the Immigration Act 1959;

                                                                          [Act 31 of 2023 wef 01/12/2025]

   “school” means a school to which the Education Act 1957
      applies;

   “Singapore Civil Defence Force” means the Singapore Civil
      Defence Force established under the Civil Defence Act 1986;

   “Singapore Police Force” means the Singapore Police Force
      established under the Police Force Act 2004.

Establishment of Home Team Corps
 3. The Home Team Corps is established by this Act, which consists

of —
       (a) the National Police Cadet Corps; and
       (b) the National Civil Defence Cadet Corps.

Organisation

 4.—(1) The Home Team Corps consists of such numbers of officers
and cadets as the Minister may determine.

 (2) The officers and cadets of the Home Team Corps are to be
formed into such units, training institutions, services, departments or
other bodies as the Minister may establish.

 (3) The Minister may disband any unit, training institution, service,
department or other body established under subsection (2) in whole or
in part or amalgamate any such unit, training institution, service,
department or other body or alter its name or title.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Home Team Corps Act 2017                                  4

Home Team Corps Council

 5.—(1) For the purpose of the administration of matters relating to
the Home Team Corps under this Act, a Home Team Corps Council is
established, which consists of the following individuals, each of
whom is appointed by the Minister:

(a) a Chairperson;

(b) 2 Deputy Chairpersons, one from among individuals
     nominated by the Commissioner of Police and the other
     from individuals nominated by the Commissioner of Civil
     Defence;

          (c) 2 members from among individuals nominated by the
              Commissioner of Police;

(d) 2 members from among individuals nominated by the
     Commissioner of Civil Defence;

          (e) such other number of individuals as the Minister may think
              fit to appoint.

 (2) The Home Team Corps Council may meet at the intervals it
thinks fit and may regulate its own procedure.

 (3) The Home Team Corps Council may delegate any of its
functions and powers under this Act —

(a) where the function or power relates to the National Police
     Cadet Corps, to an appropriately qualified police officer or
     officer of the National Police Cadet Corps; and

(b) where the function or power relates to the National Civil
     Defence Cadet Corps, to an appropriately qualified officer
     of the Singapore Civil Defence Force or officer of the
     National Civil Defence Cadet Corps.

 (4) However, subsection (3) does not apply to any function or
power of the Home Team Corps Council to make any subsidiary
legislation under this Act or the power of delegation conferred by this
section.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
5  Home Team Corps Act 2017                                  2020 Ed.

Appointment of Commandant

   6.—(1) The Minister may appoint —

   (a) the Commandant of the National Police Cadet Corps, on
        the recommendation of the Commissioner of Police; and

   (b) the Commandant of the National Civil Defence Cadet
        Corps, on the recommendation of the Commissioner of
        Civil Defence.

 (2) A Commandant exercises executive command of the Corps to
which the Commandant is appointed, and is responsible to the Home
Team Corps Council in matters of administration affecting the
recruitment, promotion, training, conditions of service, finance and
discipline of that Corps.

 (3) A Commandant holds office for a period specified by the
Minister (which in no case exceeds 3 years) and is eligible for
re‑appointment on completion of that period.

 (4) A Commandant may, with the approval of the Minister, appoint
a Deputy Commandant and so many other Assistant Commandants as
the Commandant requires to assist in the general administration of the
Corps the Commandant has executive command of.

Appointment of officers, honorary officers and honorary
instructors

 7.—(1) The Minister may appoint —

       (a) officers of the National Police Cadet Corps from among
            the teaching staff of any school or from among members of
            the National Police Cadet Corps; and

       (b) officers of the National Civil Defence Cadet Corps from
            among the teaching staff of any school or from among
            members of the National Civil Defence Cadet Corps.

 (2) The Minister may appoint, from among such individuals as the
Minister thinks fit —

       (a) honorary officers of the National Police Cadet Corps; and

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Home Team Corps Act 2017                                  6

(b) honorary officers of the National Civil Defence Cadet
     Corps.

 (3) The Minister may appoint individuals who are not cadets,
officers appointed under subsection (1) or honorary officers
appointed under subsection (2), and who wish to volunteer their
services to the National Police Cadet Corps or the National Civil
Defence Cadet Corps, as honorary instructors of that Corps.

 (4) An officer, honorary officer or honorary instructor may resign
from the appointment at any time by giving notice to the Minister.

 (5) The Minister may, with or without giving any reason, revoke the
appointment of any officer, honorary officer or honorary instructor.

Secondment of Singapore Police Force and Singapore Civil
Defence Force personnel

 8.—(1) The Commissioner of Police may second any member of
the Singapore Police Force for full‑time or part‑time service in the
National Police Cadet Corps.

 (2) The Commissioner of Civil Defence may second any member
of the Singapore Civil Defence Force for full‑time or part‑time
service in the National Civil Defence Cadet Corps.

Eligibility

 9.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a citizen of Singapore
or a permanent resident is eligible to be enrolled as a cadet or
appointed as an officer in one of the following Corps, but not both:

       (a) the National Police Cadet Corps;

       (b) the National Civil Defence Cadet Corps.

 (2) The Minister may in special cases approve the enrolment as a
cadet, or the appointment as an officer, of an individual who is neither
a citizen of Singapore nor a permanent resident.

Discharge and dismissal of cadets

 10.—(1) A cadet of the National Police Cadet Corps or the National
Civil Defence Cadet Corps is discharged from service in that Corps

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
7  Home Team Corps Act 2017                                  2020 Ed.

when the cadet has completed the period of service for which the
cadet was enrolled.

 (2) A cadet of the National Police Cadet Corps or the National Civil
Defence Cadet Corps may be dismissed by the competent
authority —

   (a) on the recommendation of the cadet’s officer‑in‑charge;
        and

   (b) where the cadet is a student of a school, with the
        concurrence of the principal of the school which the
        cadet is enrolled in.

   (3) In this section, “competent authority” means —

   (a) the Commandant of the National Police Cadet Corps, in the
        case of a cadet of the National Police Cadet Corps; or

   (b) the Commandant of the National Civil Defence Cadet
        Corps, in the case of a cadet of the National Civil Defence
        Cadet Corps.

Disobedience of regulations, general or routine orders, etc.

 11. A cadet who —

       (a) in such manner as to show wilful defiance of authority,
            disobeys any lawful command given to the cadet or
            conveyed to the cadet personally; or

       (b) contravenes any general or routine order applicable to the
            cadet or regulation made under this Act, being an order or
            regulation known to the cadet or that the cadet might
            reasonably be expected to know,

must be dealt with summarily by the cadet’s officer‑in‑charge in the
manner prescribed in regulations made under this Act.

Punishment

 12. Where an officer‑in‑charge deals with a case summarily, the
officer‑in‑charge may, if a finding of guilt is recorded, impose one or
more of the following punishments:

       (a) reprimand;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Home Team Corps Act 2017                                  8

(b) where the cadet holds a rank, reduction in rank;

          (c) suspension of membership in the National Police Cadet
              Corps or the National Civil Defence Cadet Corps (as the
              case may be) for a period not exceeding 3 months.

Board of inquiry

 13.—(1) If a Commandant of a Corps has reason to believe that an
officer under that Commandant’s executive command has committed
a breach of any general or routine order of the Corps or any regulation
made under this Act, the Commandant may convene a board of
inquiry to investigate and report on the facts relating to the matter and
the board of inquiry must, if directed by the Commandant to do so,
express its opinion on any question arising out of any matter referred
to the board.

 (2) A board of inquiry must consist of —

       (a) a Chairperson who —

               (i) in an inquiry convened to investigate an officer of the
                   National Police Cadet Corps, is either a police officer
                   not below the rank of Assistant Superintendent of
                   Police or an officer of the National Police Cadet
                   Corps not below the rank of Assistant
                   Superintendent; or

              (ii) in an inquiry convened to investigate an officer of the
                   National Civil Defence Cadet Corps, is either an
                   officer of the Singapore Civil Defence Force not
                   below the rank of Captain of Civil Defence or an
                   officer of the National Civil Defence Cadet Corps
                   not below the rank of Captain; and

       (b) at least 2 other individuals, one of whom must be
            nominated by a Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of
            Education.

 (3) If the board of inquiry is of the opinion that an officer is guilty of
a breach of any general or routine order, or any regulation made under
this Act, the board must recommend to the Commandant who

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
9  Home Team Corps Act 2017                                  2020 Ed.

convened the board which of the following punishments or
combination of them should be imposed on the officer:

   (a) reprimand;

   (b) reduction in rank;

   (c) dismissal from the National Police Cadet Corps or the
       National Civil Defence Cadet Corps, as the case may be.

Compensation for death or personal injury

 14. It is lawful for the Minister to compensate, in accordance with
regulations made under this Act, any member or the member’s
dependants for the member’s death or personal injury arising out of or
in the execution of the member’s duty and that is attributable solely to
the discharge of the member’s duty.

Exemptions from certain laws

 15. Nothing in the Arms Offences Act 1973 and the Corrosive and
Explosive Substances and Offensive Weapons Act 1958 applies to
members while on parade or in the course of their duty.

General and routine orders

 16.—(1) A Commandant may make such general or routine orders,
not inconsistent with this Act —

       (a) for the control, direction and information of the Corps the
            Commandant has executive command of; and

       (b) relating to the awards, in the form of badges or other
            insignia, to cadets enrolled to the Corps the Commandant
            has executive command of, for proficiency in training and
            other achievements.

 (2) It is not necessary to publish in the Gazette any general or
routine orders made under subsection (1).

Regulations

 17.—(1) The Home Team Corps Council may, with the approval of
the Minister, make such regulations as may be necessary or expedient
to carry out the provisions of this Act.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
2020 Ed.        Home Team Corps Act 2017                            10

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Home Team Corps Council
may make regulations relating to —

(a) the organisation, control, administration and discipline of
     the National Police Cadet Corps or the National Civil
     Defence Cadet Corps;

(b) training;

          (c) the appointment, promotion, advancement or reduction in
              rank of officers and the termination of services of officers;

(d) the age and other qualifications for cadet membership,
     promotion, advancement or reduction in rank of cadets,
     and dismissal or discharge of cadets;

          (e) the payment of allowances;

          (f) the badges of rank to be worn by members and the award of
              decorations;

(g) the award of compensation in respect of members’ death or
     personal injury arising out of or in the execution of duty
     and which is solely due to and attributable to the discharge
     of that duty;

(h) dress; and

          (i) the expenditure of funds raised from the public.

Saving and transitional provisions

 18.—(1) Every individual who, immediately before 1 March 2018,
is an officer appointed or an individual enrolled in the National Civil
Defence Cadet Corps, is deemed —

       (a) to be an officer appointed or an individual enrolled in the
            National Civil Defence Cadet Corps under this Act, as the
            case may be; and

       (b) to have the rank and seniority not less favourable than that
            accorded to the individual immediately before 1 March
            2018.

 (2) The individual who, immediately before 1 March 2018, is the
Commandant of the National Civil Defence Cadet Corps, is deemed

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
11  Home Team Corps Act 2017                                  2020 Ed.

to be appointed under section 6(1)(b) of this Act as the Commandant
of the National Civil Defence Cadet Corps.

 (3) The National Police Cadet Corps, which is raised and
maintained under section 3 of the repealed Act as in force
immediately before 1 March 2018, continues as if raised and
maintained under section 3(a) of this Act.

 (4) Every individual who, immediately before 1 March 2018, is an
officer appointed or an individual enrolled in the National Police
Cadet Corps, is deemed —

    (a) to be an officer appointed or an individual enrolled in the
         National Police Cadet Corps under this Act, as the case
         may be; and

    (b) to have the rank and seniority not less favourable than that
         accorded to the individual immediately before 1 March
         2018.

 (5) The individual who, immediately before 1 March 2018, is the
Commandant, a Deputy Commandant or an Assistant Commandant
of the National Police Cadet Corps, is deemed to be appointed under
section 6(1)(a) or (4) of this Act (as the case may be) as the
Commandant, a Deputy Commandant or an Assistant Commandant
of the National Police Cadet Corps.

 (6) Any decision, certificate, general or routine order or
recommendation made, issued or approved by or under the
authority of —

    (a) the Minister under the repealed Act;

    (b) the National Police Cadet Corps Council under the
         repealed Act;

    (c) the Commandant, the Deputy Commandant or an Assistant
        Commandant of the National Police Cadet Corps under the
        repealed Act; or

    (d) the Commandant of the National Civil Defence Cadet
         Corps before 1 March 2018,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Home Team Corps Act 2017                                  12

so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act,
continues and is deemed to have been made, issued or approved under
the relevant provisions of this Act.

 (7) Subject to subsection (8)(a), where anything has been
commenced by or on behalf of the Commandant of the National
Police Cadet Corps or the Commandant of the National Civil Defence
Cadet Corps before 1 March 2018, that thing may be carried on and
completed by or under the authority of the respective Commandant
appointed under this Act.

(8) This Act does not affect —

(a) any inquiry before a board of inquiry convened before
     1 March 2018 under section 13 of the repealed Act and is
     pending on that day, and every such inquiry may be
     continued and everything in relation to that inquiry may be
     done in all respects after that date under the repealed Act,
     as if this Act had not been enacted; and

(b) the continued force of any recommendation of a board of
     inquiry made before 1 March 2018.

 (9) In this section, “repealed Act” means the National Police Cadet
Corps Act (Cap. 199, 2014 Revised Edition) repealed by this Act.

                                                                               [19

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                   LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
               HOME TEAM CORPS ACT 2017

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 32 of 2017 — Home Team Corps Act 2017

Bill               : 26/2017

First Reading      : 8 May 2017

Second and Third Readings : 4 July 2017

Commencement       : 1 March 2018

2. 2020 Revised Edition — Home Team Corps Act 2017

Date of operation  : 31 December 2021

3. Act 31 of 2023 — Immigration (Amendment) Act 2023
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill               : 26/2023

First Reading      : 2 August 2023

Second and Third Readings : 18 September 2023

Commencement       : 1 December 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
.                                 ii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
     COMPARATIVE TABLE
HOME TEAM CORPS ACT 2017

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                  2020 Ed.               Act 32 of 2017
[Omitted as having had effect]
18                              18
[Omitted as spent]              19

   (9)                             (9)
                                   (10)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
