THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                    FIRE SAFETY ACT 1993

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
                                                                    2020 Ed.

         Fire Safety Act 1993

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Authorised officers
     2.  Registration required to act as registered inspector
     3.  Register of registered inspectors
     4.  Registration of registered inspectors
     5.  Cancellation of registration and suspension from practice
     6.  Independence of registered inspectors
     7.  Appointment of Registered Inspectors Inquiry Panel, etc.
     8.  Proceedings of Inquiry Committee
     9.  Commencement of inquiry, etc.
   10.   Powers of Inquiry Committee
   11.   Powers in event of fire
   12.   Power to enter premises for various purposes
   13.   Power to board vessel for various purposes
   14.   Power to enter premises, etc., up to 48 hours after fire
   15.   Powers ancillary to sections 14, 15 or 16
   16.   Power to examine persons and secure attendance, etc.
   17.   Exemption of Singapore Armed Forces
   18.   Fire forensic specialists
   19.   Appointment of supplementary enforcement officers
   20.   Power to fix plate showing position of fire hydrant
   21.   Power to install fire hydrants
   22.   Damaging, etc., of fire hydrants
   23.   False alarm
   24.
   25.

                                                    1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                          2

          PART 2

          FIRE HAZARD IN PREMISES

Section   Offence for owner or occupier to cause, etc., specified fire
   26.    hazard
          Offence for any person to cause specified fire hazard
   27.    Abatement of fire hazards
   28.    Commissioner may abate fire hazard in emergency
   29.    Power to order closure of premises in emergency
   30.    Fire hazard order
   31.    Provision as to appeal against order
   32.    Property and materials seized or removed by Commissioner in
   33.    abating fire hazard
          Recovery of costs and expenses by Commissioner
   34.

                                        PART 3

                     FIRE PREVENTION IN BUILDINGS

35. Fire certificate
36. Order to install fire safety measures
37. Emergency Response Plan
38. Fire safety managers and Company Emergency Response Teams
39. Extension of time
40. Meaning of owner or occupier in this Part

                                       PART 3A

                           FIRE SAFETY ENGINEERS

41. Duties and responsibilities of fire safety engineers
42. Registration of fire safety engineers
43. Disciplinary action against fire safety engineers
44. Inquiry Committee
45. Fire Safety Engineers Inquiry Panel
46. Register of fire safety engineers

                                       PART 3B

                      ALARM MONITORING SERVICES

47. Interpretation of this Part
48. Licence required to carry on business of providing alarm

         monitoring services

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
3        Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

Section  Application for grant or renewal of licence
         Grant of licence
   49.   Licence conditions
   50.   Modifying conditions of licence
   51.   Failure to verify fire, etc., before cancelling request
   52.   Revocation of licence
   53.
   54.

                                           PART 4

                       CONTROL OF FIRE SAFETY WORKS

   55. Fire safety works
   56. Prohibition of fire safety works without approval of plans
   57. Appointment and duties of qualified person
   58. Supervision of fire safety works
   59. Modification or waiver of requirements relating to fire safety
   60. Fire safety certificate
   61. Application for change of use of premises
   62. Order for demolition, removal, etc., of unauthorised fire safety

            works
   63. Closure order
   64. Appeals to Minister
   65. Application of this Part to Government buildings, etc.

                                           PART 5

                     REGULATED FIRE SAFETY PRODUCTS

   66. Interpretation of this Part
   67. False test reports for regulated fire safety products
   68. Giving false information to accredited certification body
   69. Certification of regulated fire safety products
   70. Supply of regulated fire safety products
   71. Installation of non‑compliant fire safety products
   72. Commissioner may require testing of regulated fire safety

            product
   73. Commissioner may give directions relating to regulated fire

            safety products
   74. Commissioner may give directions in relation to certificates of

            conformity
   75. Power to enter premises to carry out direction upon notice or

            under warrant

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                             4

Section

   76. Power to enter premises to carry out direction without notice or
            warrant

                                        PART 6

                      CONTROL OF PETROLEUM AND
                           FLAMMABLE MATERIALS

77. Interpretation of this Part
78. Storage of petroleum and flammable materials
79. Import of petroleum and flammable materials
80. Transport of petroleum and flammable materials
81. Dispensing of petroleum and flammable materials
82. Pipelines for petroleum and flammable materials
83. Conduct of works in vicinity of licensed pipeline
84. Damage to licensed pipeline
85. Offences
86. Powers of entry, inspection, etc.
87. Power to waive requirements
88. Grant and renewal of licence or permit
89. Cancellation of licence or permit
90. Disposal of stocks and equipment

                                       PART 6A
                                       APPEALS

91. Appeals to Minister
92. Appeal Advisory Board

          PART 7

          MISCELLANEOUS

 93.      Charging for extinguishing fires, etc., on inland waters or sea
 94.      Obstructing authorised persons in execution of their duty
 95.      Analyst’s certificate
 96.      Powers of arrest
 97.      Inaccuracies in documents
 98.      Evidence
 99.      Service of documents
 99A.     Use of electronic service for making applications under Part 4
100.      Jurisdiction of court
101.      Composition of offences

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
5        Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

Section  Conduct of prosecutions
         Exemption
  102.   Offences by corporations
  103.   Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
  104.   Adoption of codes and standards
  105.   General penalties
  106.   Provision of information
  107.   False or misleading information
  108.   Saving of prosecutions under other laws
  109.   Protection from liability
  110.   Transfer of employees to Force
  111.   Regulations
  112.   Transitional provisions
  113.
  114.

An Act to make provisions for fire safety and for matters connected
  therewith.

                [8 April 1994: Except Part VI and sections 60 and 62 ;
                        29 April 1994: Part VI and sections 60 and 62 ]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Fire Safety Act 1993.

Interpretation
 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “alternative solution”, in relation to any fire safety works, means
         an engineering solution for the fire safety works to satisfy any
         fire performance requirements in the Fire Code, being a
         solution that is based on —
              (a) a deterministic or probabilistic analysis of fire
                   scenarios or both types of analysis; or

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       6

          (b) a quantitative or qualitative assessment of design
               alternatives or both against the fire performance
               requirements in the Fire Code,

          using engineering tools, methodologies and performance
          criteria as may be acceptable to the Commissioner, but does
          not include engineered smoke control systems where the
          usage and design are in accordance with the Fire Code;

“authorised officer”, in relation to any power conferred or duties
   imposed on the Commissioner by or under this Act, means a
   person authorised under section 3 to exercise that power or to
   carry out that duty;

“building” has the meaning given by the Building Control
   Act 1989;

“building works” has the meaning given by the Building Control
   Act 1989;

“class of petroleum” means any petroleum prescribed to be a
   class of petroleum for the purposes of this Act;

“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Civil Defence
   appointed under section 6 of the Civil Defence Act 1986;

“Fire Code” means the Code of Practice for Fire Precautions in
   Buildings published by the Commissioner on the website
   maintained by the Force, as amended or remade from time to
   time, and includes any code, standard, rule, specification or
   provision adopted under section 106;

“fire forensic specialist” means an individual who is appointed
   under section 20 as a fire forensic specialist;

“fire hazard” means any matter or circumstance which
   materially increases the likelihood of fire or the danger to
   life or property that would result from the outbreak of fire and
   includes —

          (a) any alteration to any building in contravention of any
               law relating to building works or fire safety works
               such as might render escape in the event of fire more
               difficult;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
7  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

   (b) any removal from any building of any fire safety
        measure which was provided in such building in
        accordance with plans approved by the
        Commissioner under section 55;

   (c) any specified fire hazard; and

   (d) any other matter or circumstance which would
        materially hamper the Force in the discharge of its
        duties in the event of fire;

   “fire hazard abatement notice” means a written notice issued by
      the Commissioner under section 28(1);

   “fire performance requirements” means the objectives specified
      in the Fire Code in respect of fire safety works;

   “fire protection system” includes any installation, equipment or
      works manufactured, used or designed to be used for the
      purposes of —

   (a) extinguishing, attacking, preventing or limiting a fire
        and its by‑product; or

   (b) giving warning of a fire;

   “fire protection works” means the provision, extension or
      alteration of any fire protection system;

   “fire safety engineer” means a person who is registered as a fire
      safety engineer under this Act;

   “fire safety measures” includes any installation, equipment or
      works manufactured, used or designed to be used for the
      purposes of —

   (a) extinguishing, attacking, preventing or limiting a fire
        and controlling the spread of smoke resulting from
        the fire;

   (b) giving warning of a fire;

   (c) providing access to any premises or place for the
       purpose of extinguishing, attacking, preventing or
       limiting a fire;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.   Fire Safety Act 1993                                      8

          (d) providing means of escape; or

          (e) providing a means of communication to facilitate
              firefighting operations or the evacuation of persons in
              the event of fire;

“fire safety works” means —

          (a) any fire protection works;

          (b) the installation, provision or removal of, or addition
               or alteration to, any fire safety measure;

          (c) any relevant pipeline works; or

          (d) any relevant works;

“flammable material” means any substance prescribed to be a
   flammable material for the purposes of this Act;

“Force” has the meaning given by the Civil Defence Act 1986;

“install”, in relation to a regulated fire safety product, includes
   the use of the regulated fire safety product in the construction
   of a building;

“member” has the meaning given by the Civil Defence Act 1986
   and includes any public officer serving in the Force as
   engineering or technical staff;

“occupier”, in relation to any premises, means the person in
   occupation of the premises or having the charge,
   management or control thereof and, in relation to any part
   of any premises different parts of which are occupied by
   different persons, means the person in occupation or having
   the charge, management or control of that part;

“officer” has the meaning given by the Civil Defence Act 1986
   and includes any public officer serving in the Force as
   engineering or technical officer;

“owner” —

          (a) in relation to any premises, includes any mortgagee
               in possession and any person for the time being
               receiving the rent of the premises whether on the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
9  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

   person’s own account or as agent or trustee or as
   receiver, or who would receive the same if the
   premises were let to a tenant, and any person whose
   name is entered in the Valuation List prepared under
   section 10 of the Property Tax Act 1960 as the owner
   of the premises;

   (b) in relation to the common property of any building
        erected on land comprised in a strata subdivision plan
        approved by the competent authority, means the
        management corporation having control of the
        building;

   (c) in relation to the limited common property of any
       building erected on land comprised in a strata
       subdivision plan approved by the competent
       authority, means the subsidiary management
       corporation having control of that limited common
       property;

   (d) in respect of any fire safety measure, includes the
        occupier or the owner of the premises in or on which
        the fire safety measure is installed or kept;

   (e) in relation to an aircraft or a vessel, includes the
       charterer of the aircraft or vessel, as the case may be;
       and

   (f) in relation to a vehicle, means the registered owner of
       the vehicle;

   “peer reviewer” means a fire safety engineer who is appointed to
      review and assess whether any alternative solution in plans
      for any fire safety works that is prepared or proposed by
      another person satisfies any fire performance requirements;

   “petroleum” includes crude petroleum, liquefied petroleum gas
      and other naturally occurring hydrocarbon liquid derived
      from crude petroleum, coal, shale, peat or other bituminous
      substances;

   “pipeline” includes any section of a pipeline;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       10

“pipeline owner”, in relation to any section of a relevant
   pipeline, means —

          (a) if the section of the relevant pipeline is entirely or
               partially on a piperack or pipetrack — the person who
               owns or leases, and has management and control, of
               the piperack or pipetrack; or

          (b) if the entire section of the relevant pipeline is not on a
               piperack or pipetrack — a person who owns or leases
               that section of the relevant pipeline and uses that
               section of the relevant pipeline for the conveyance of
               any class of petroleum or any flammable material;

“piperack” means a multi-tiered rack supporting one or more
   pipelines above the ground;

“pipetrack” means an area where one or more pipelines are
   supported on sleepers on the ground;

“premises” includes messuages, houses, buildings, lands,
   tenements, easements and hereditaments of any tenure,
   whether open or enclosed, whether built or not, whether
   public or private, and whether or not maintained under
   statutory authority;

“public authority” means a body established or constituted by or
   under a public Act to perform or discharge a public function,
   but does not include a Town Council;

“public building” means a building to which the public or a
   section of the public has access as of right, or by virtue of
   express or implied permission with or without payment of a
   fee;

“qualified person” means a person who is registered as —

          (a) an architect under the Architects Act 1991 and has in
               force a practising certificate issued under that Act; or

          (b) a professional engineer under the Professional
               Engineers Act 1991 and has in force a practising
               certificate issued under that Act;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
11  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

    “register of registered inspectors” means the register kept and
       maintained under section 5(1);

    “registered inspector” means a person who is registered as a
       registered inspector under section 6;

    “regulated fire safety product” means any material or product
       prescribed under section 113(1) to be such;

    “relevant pipeline” means a pipeline used, or to be used, for the
       conveyance of any class of petroleum or any flammable
       material, and includes the piperack or pipetrack (if any) for
       the management of the pipeline but does not include such a
       pipeline located in licensed premises;

    “relevant pipeline works” means the construction, alteration or
       repair of a relevant pipeline commenced or carried out on or
       after 1 September 2013;

    “relevant works” means —

    (a) the erection, extension, alteration, addition or repair
         of a building —

    (i) that involves the use of combustible materials;
        or

    (ii) that affects the means of escape from the
         building or the effectiveness of fire safety
         measures;

    (b) the provision, extension or alteration of any
         air‑conditioning service or ventilating system in or
         in connection with a building; or

    (c) the provision, extension or alteration of any system
        for the delivery of liquefied petroleum gas from a
        cylinder to the point of use, in or in connection with
        any building that is used for a non‑residential
        purpose;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       12

“specified fire hazard”, in relation to a building, means —

          (a) the overcrowding of a building that is a public
               building such as might render escape in the event of
               fire more difficult;

          (b) any fire safety measure in the building that is not in
               proper working order, whether because of lack of
               proper maintenance or for any other reason; or

          (c) the obstruction of escape routes, passageways,
              common property or limited common property of
              the building such as might render escape in the event
              of fire more difficult;

“street” has the meaning given by the Street Works Act 1995;

“vessel” includes —

          (a) any ship or boat or air-cushioned vehicle; and

              (b) any rig or platform, whether floating at sea or fixed to
                   the sea bed, used in any form of operations at sea.

                                                  [7/2004; 47/2004; 14/2013; 10/2015; 31/2016; 22/2019]

 (2) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, any reference
to premises or building includes a reference to a part of such premises
or building, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (3) For the purposes of the definition of “pipeline owner” in
subsection (1), the owner of the land on which any piperack,
pipetrack or pipeline is located is not to be regarded as the person who
owns or leases the piperack, pipetrack or pipeline (as the case may be)
by reason only that the piperack, pipetrack or pipeline is a fixture
annexed to that land.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (4) Where —

(a) by or under any provision of this Act, an act or a thing is
     required or directed to be done within a particular period or
     before a particular time;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
13  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

    (b) failure to do that act or thing within the period or before the
         time mentioned in paragraph (a) constitutes an offence;
         and

    (c) that act or thing is not done within the period or before the
        time mentioned in paragraph (a),

the obligation to do that act or thing continues, despite that the period
or time mentioned in paragraph (a) has expired or passed, until that
act or thing is done; and a person shall be guilty of a separate offence
in respect of each day or part of a day after that period or time has
expired or passed, during which the person continues to refuse or fail
to comply with that requirement or direction.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

Authorised officers

 3.—(1) The powers conferred and the duties imposed on the
Commissioner under this Act, except sections 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and
96, may be exercised and carried out by any of the following persons
generally or specially authorised by name or office by the
Commissioner and subject to the Commissioner’s directions:

       (a) any member of the Force;

       (b) any qualified person in the employment of the
            Government.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (2) Subject to the directions of the Commissioner, the powers
conferred and the duties imposed on the Commissioner under the
provisions of Part 4 relating to the approving of plans of fire safety
works and any regulations made under this Act necessary for carrying
out or giving effect to those provisions may also be exercised and
carried out by any qualified person who is —

       (a) in the employment of the Housing and Development
            Board, the Jurong Town Corporation or such other public
            authority constituted by any written law as the Minister
            may approve for the purpose; and

       (b) generally or specially authorised by name or office by the
            Commissioner.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       14

 (3) The Commissioner may authorise any qualified person in
writing to carry out the duties and responsibilities or exercise all or
any of the powers of the Commissioner under this Act, subject to
subsection (4) and such conditions or limitations as the
Commissioner may specify.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (4) The duties, responsibilities and powers which the
Commissioner may authorise any qualified person to carry out or
exercise under subsection (3) are those approved by the Minister in
writing.

 (5) Any qualified person who is generally or specially authorised
under subsection (2) or (3) to carry out the duties and responsibilities
or exercise all or any of the powers of the Commissioner under this
Act is deemed to be —

(a) a public officer for the purposes of this Act; and

(b) a public servant for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

                                                                                                 [14/2013]

Registration required to act as registered inspector

 4. A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person is not a registered inspector; and

       (b) the person, knowing that he or she is not a registered
            inspector, intentionally does any of the following, whether
            or not for reward:

               (i) certify that any completed fire safety works have
                   been carried out in accordance with the approved
                   plans of fire safety works, the Fire Code, and the
                   provisions of this Act, for the purposes of
                   section 60(5);

              (ii) inspect any fire safety works for the purpose of
                   making a certification mentioned in
                   sub‑paragraph (i);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
15  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

    (iii) advertise or otherwise hold out that the person is
          willing to do (whether or not for reward) anything in
          sub‑paragraph (i) or (ii).
                                                                    [3A

                                                                                            [22/2019]

Register of registered inspectors

 5.—(1) The Commissioner must keep and maintain a register in
which must be entered the names and prescribed particulars of all
persons registered under section 6 as registered inspectors.

 (2) The register of registered inspectors must be kept and
maintained at the office of the Commissioner and must be
available for inspection by any person without charge at such time
as that office is open for business.

                                                                                [4

Registration of registered inspectors

 6.—(1) An application for registration as a registered inspector
must be made in such manner and must be accompanied by such
documents and particulars as may be prescribed.

 (2) No person may be registered as a registered inspector unless he
or she can satisfy the Commissioner that he or she possesses the
prescribed qualifications and practical experience.

 (3) Without prejudice to subsection (2), the Commissioner may
refuse to register as a registered inspector an applicant who, in the
Commissioner’s opinion, is not of good character and reputation or
unable to carry out the duties and responsibilities of a registered
inspector under this Act.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (4) The Commissioner may appoint a committee of persons to
assist the Commissioner in considering applications for registration
as registered inspectors.

 (5) Where the Commissioner has registered a person as a registered
inspector, the Commissioner must issue to the person a certificate of
registration.

                                                                                [5

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       16

Cancellation of registration and suspension from practice

 7.—(1) Without prejudice to section 11(7), the Commissioner may
by order cancel the registration of any registered inspector or suspend
him or her from practice for a period not exceeding 12 months under
any of the following circumstances:

(a) if he or she is deceased;

(b) if he or she has contravened or failed to comply with
     section 8(1);

          (c) if he or she is convicted of an offence involving fraud or
              dishonesty or an offence under this Act;

(d) if it appears to the Commissioner that he or she is no longer
     in the position to carry out the duties or responsibilities of a
     registered inspector under this Act;

          (e) if he or she has procured his or her registration by fraud or
              misrepresentation; or

        (f) if he or she is a qualified person or a fire safety engineer,
            his or her registration as such is revoked or cancelled or he
            or she is suspended from practising as such under this Act
            or any other relevant written law.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (2) The Commissioner may, if the Commissioner considers that no
cause of sufficient gravity for cancellation of registration or
suspension from practice exists, by writing censure the registered
inspector.

 (3) The Commissioner must not exercise the Commissioner’s
powers under subsection (1)(b), (c), (d), (e) or (f) or (2) unless an
opportunity of being heard has been given to the registered inspector
against whom the Commissioner intends to exercise his or her
powers.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (4) Where a registered inspector has been suspended from practice
under subsection (1), the Commissioner must, within 7 days of the
expiry of such suspension, restore the name and particulars of that

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
17  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

registered inspector to the register of registered inspectors and issue
to him or her a fresh certificate of registration.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (5) Any person whose application for registration as a registered
inspector is refused, or who is dissatisfied with the decision of the
Commissioner under subsection (1), may, within 14 days of being
notified in writing of the refusal or the decision, appeal to the
Minister.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (6) Where an order made by the Commissioner to cancel the
registration of a registered inspector or suspend the registered
inspector from practice has taken effect, the Commissioner must —

    (a) remove the name and particulars of the inspector
         concerned from the register of registered inspectors;

    (b) cancel any certificate of registration issued to the inspector
         concerned under section 6(5); and

    (c) notify the inspector concerned accordingly.

 (7) The inspector concerned must, within 14 days of being notified
of the removal of his or her name and particulars from the register of
registered inspectors, surrender to the Commissioner the certificate of
registration issued to him or her.

 (8) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (7) shall be
guilty of an offence.

 (9) Any person whose name has been removed from the register of
registered inspectors under subsection (1)(b), (c), (d), (e) or (f) must,
if his or her appeal to the Minister is allowed, have his or her name
reinstated as soon as may be practicable.

                                                                              [5A

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

Independence of registered inspectors

 8.—(1) At the time of carrying out his or her duties and
responsibilities or exercising his or her powers as a registered
inspector under this Act, a registered inspector must not have a
professional or financial interest in the building or relevant pipeline,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       18

or any part thereof, or fire safety works in respect of which the duties
and responsibilities or powers are to be carried out or exercised.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (2) A registered inspector is regarded as having a professional or
financial interest in the building or relevant pipeline, or any part
thereof, or fire safety works if —

(a) he or she is or has been responsible for or acting as
     consultant to the design or construction of the building or
     relevant pipeline, or any of the fire safety works in any
     capacity;

(b) he or she or any nominee of his or hers is a member, officer
     or employee of a company or other body which has a
     professional or financial interest in the building or relevant
     pipeline, or any part thereof, or fire safety works; or

      (c) he or she is a partner or is in the employment of a person
           who has a professional or financial interest in the building
           or relevant pipeline, or any part thereof, or fire safety
           works.

                                                                                                         [14/2013]

(3) For the purposes of this Act —

(a) a person is to be treated as having a professional or
     financial interest in the building or relevant pipeline, or any
     part thereof, or fire safety works even if the person has that
     interest only as trustee for the benefit of some other person;
     and

      (b) in the case of a husband and wife living together, the
           interest of one spouse is, if known to the other, deemed to
           be also an interest of the other.

                                                                                                         [14/2013]

(4) For the purposes of this Act —

(a) involvement in the fire safety works as a registered
     inspector; and

(b) entitlement to any fee paid for his or her function as a
     registered inspector,

is not regarded as constituting a professional or financial interest.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
19  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

 (5) Any person who contravenes this section shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                                [6

Appointment of Registered Inspectors Inquiry Panel, etc.

 9.—(1) For the purpose of enabling an Inquiry Committee to be
constituted in accordance with this section, the Minister must appoint
a panel (called in this Act the Registered Inspectors Inquiry Panel)
consisting of such numbers of —

    (a) qualified persons who are not members of the Force; and

    (b) members of the Force,

as the Commissioner may determine.

                                            [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (2) A member of the Registered Inspectors Inquiry Panel is
appointed for a term of 2 years and is eligible for re‑appointment.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (3) Where any complaint against a registered inspector relating to
his or her conduct or the discharge of his or her duties or
responsibilities is received by the Commissioner, the
Commissioner may constitute an Inquiry Committee consisting of
5 members of the Registered Inspectors Inquiry Panel, for the
purposes of inquiring into the complaint.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

(4) An Inquiry Committee must consist of —

    (a) a Chairperson appointed by the Commissioner;

    (b) 2 qualified persons who are not members of the Force; and

    (c) 2 members of the Force.

 (5) The Commissioner may, on the Commissioner’s own motion,
constitute an Inquiry Committee for the purposes of inquiring into the
conduct of any registered inspector or the discharge of a registered
inspector’s duties or responsibilities if it appears to the Commissioner
that the registered inspector has contravened or failed to comply with
any provision of the prescribed code of professional conduct and
ethics.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       20

 (6) The Chairperson of an Inquiry Committee presides at every
meeting of the Inquiry Committee.

 (7) In the absence of the Chairperson of an Inquiry Committee, the
Commissioner must appoint an acting Chairperson who has and may
exercise all the powers of the Chairperson.

 (8) The Minister may at any time remove any member of an Inquiry
Committee or fill any vacancy in its membership.

                                                                              [6A

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

Proceedings of Inquiry Committee

 10.—(1) An Inquiry Committee may meet for the purposes of its
inquiry, adjourn and otherwise regulate the conduct of its inquiry as
the members may think fit.

 (2) The Chairperson of an Inquiry Committee may at any time
summon a meeting of the Inquiry Committee.

 (3) All the members of an Inquiry Committee must be present to
constitute a quorum for a meeting of the Inquiry Committee.

 (4) Any decision to be made at any meeting of the Inquiry
Committee is to be determined by a majority of votes of the members
of the Inquiry Committee and, in the case of an equality of votes, the
Chairperson of the Inquiry Committee has a second or casting vote.

 (5) A member of an Inquiry Committee is, notwithstanding that he
or she has ceased to be a member of the Registered Inspectors Inquiry
Panel on the expiry of his or her term of office, deemed to be a
member of the Registered Inspectors Inquiry Panel until such time as
the Commissioner has decided that the Inquiry Committee of which
he or she is a member has completed its work.

                                                                              [6B

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

Commencement of inquiry, etc.

 11.—(1) An Inquiry Committee must, within a reasonable time of
its constitution, commence its inquiry and, subject to subsection (2),
submit a written report of its findings (called in this section the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
21  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

written report) to the Commissioner not later than 6 months after its
constitution.

 (2) The Commissioner may grant an extension of time to an Inquiry
Committee to submit the written report to the Commissioner if he or
she is satisfied that the circumstances of the case justify the grant of
an extension of time.

 (3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Inquiry Committee
may determine its own procedure.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (4) Where an Inquiry Committee is of the opinion that a registered
inspector should be called upon to answer any allegation made
against him or her, the Inquiry Committee must —

    (a) post or deliver to the registered inspector concerned —

    (i) copies of any complaint made against him or her; and

    (ii) a notice inviting him or her to give, within such
         period (being at least 14 days) as may be specified in
         the notice, to the Inquiry Committee any written
         explanation he or she may wish to offer and to advise
         the Inquiry Committee if he or she wishes to be heard
         by the Committee;

    (b) allow the time specified in the notice to elapse;

    (c) give the registered inspector concerned reasonable
        opportunity to be heard if he or she so desires; and

    (d) give due consideration to any explanation (if any) given by
         the registered inspector concerned.

 (5) Where the complainant withdraws the complaint before the
Inquiry Committee is constituted or before the inquiry by the
Committee is concluded, the Commissioner may, despite such
withdrawal, constitute an Inquiry Committee and direct it to
inquire, or may direct the Inquiry Committee to continue with its
inquiry, into the matter, and the Inquiry Committee must comply with
that direction.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       22

 (6) An Inquiry Committee must, in its written report, make such
recommendation as it thinks fit.

 (7) The Commissioner must consider the written report submitted
by an Inquiry Committee and may —

(a) dismiss the complaint;

(b) by order cancel the registration of the registered inspector
     concerned;

          (c) by order suspend the registered inspector concerned from
              practice for a period not exceeding 12 months;

(d) by order impose a penalty not exceeding $5,000;

          (e) in writing censure the registered inspector concerned; or

          (f) make such other order as the Commissioner thinks fit.

 (8) The Commissioner is not bound by any recommendation made
by an Inquiry Committee in its written report.

 (9) The Commissioner must in writing notify the registered
inspector concerned of the Commissioner’s decision or any order
made against the registered inspector concerned under subsection (7).

 (10) A registered inspector who is aggrieved by a decision of or an
order made by the Commissioner under subsection (7)(b), (c), (d) or
(f) may, within 14 days of the receipt of the written notification,
appeal to the Minister.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (11) Any penalty imposed by the Commissioner in exercise of the
powers conferred by subsection (7) is recoverable as a judgment debt
from the registered inspector ordered to pay the penalty.

                                                                              [6C

Powers of Inquiry Committee

 12.—(1) For the purposes of any inquiry conducted by an Inquiry
Committee, the Inquiry Committee may —

       (a) require evidence to be given on oath and for that purpose
            the Chairperson of the Inquiry Committee may administer
            an oath; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
23  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

    (b) require any person to attend and give evidence before it
         and to produce all plans, books, documents and papers in
         the custody of, or under the control of, that person relating
         to the subject matter of the inquiry.

(2) Every person who, without lawful excuse, refuses or fails to —

    (a) attend and give evidence when required to do so by the
         Inquiry Committee;

    (b) answer truly and fully any question put to the person by a
         member of the Inquiry Committee; or

    (c) produce to the Inquiry Committee any plans, book,
        document or paper required to be produced by the person,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000.

 (3) For the purposes of conducting an inquiry, an Inquiry
Committee may appoint any person to make or assist in the
making of whatever preliminary inquiries it thinks necessary.

                                                                              [6D

Powers in event of fire

 13.—(1) The Commissioner or any member of the Force authorised
by the Commissioner may, in the event of a fire or a suspected fire, by
himself or herself or with other members under his or her
command —

       (a) enter, break into or through and take possession of or
            demolish or cause to be taken possession of or demolished
            any premises or structure for the purpose of extinguishing
            or preventing the spread of the fire;

       (b) enter, break into, take possession of, remove or destroy, or
            cause to be taken possession of, removed or destroyed, any
            aircraft, vehicle, vessel or thing for the purpose of
            extinguishing or preventing the spread of the fire;

       (c) take any equipment required to be used into, through or
            upon any premises, aircraft, vehicle or vessel where he or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       24

          she thinks it necessary for the purpose of carrying out his or
          her duties;

(d) remove from any building, structure, aircraft, vehicle or
     vessel which is on fire or is in the vicinity of the fire, any
     flammable, combustible, explosive or dangerous material
     found therein without responsibility for any consequent
     loss or damage;

          (e) for the purpose of extinguishing or preventing the spread of
              the fire, cause any building or structure which is on fire, or
              which is adjacent to or in the vicinity of any building or
              structure which is on fire, to be pulled down, either wholly
              or partially, or otherwise destroyed or damaged;

          (f) cause water to be shut off from, or turned into, any main or
              pipe in order to obtain a greater pressure and supply of
              water for the purpose of extinguishing the fire in
              consultation with the Public Utilities Board;

(g) shut off or disconnect, or order any person having the
     control thereof to shut off or disconnect, the supply of gas,
     petroleum, flammable material or electricity to any
     premises which are on fire or which are in the vicinity of
     the fire;

(h) close or cause to be closed any street in the vicinity of the
     fire or calamity;

          (i) remove any aircraft, vehicle, vessel or thing impeding the
              operation of the Force and, where reasonably necessary for
              that purpose, he or she may use force or break into any such
              aircraft, vehicle, vessel or thing;

          (j) remove, using reasonable force if necessary, any person
              who, by that person’s presence or otherwise, interferes
              with the firefighting operations or who is, in his or her
              opinion, endangered by the fire;

          (k) control and direct all operations for the extinguishing of the
              fire and all fire services present and all persons there who
              place their services at his or her disposal;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
25  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

    (l) use any convenient supply of water; and

      (m) generally do all other things that are reasonably necessary
            for protecting life or property or for extinguishing the fire
            or for preventing the spread of the fire.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (2) No person or body (including the Government) shall be liable to
any action, penalty or claim by reason of any action under
subsection (1)(f).

                                                                                [7

Power to enter premises for various purposes

 14.—(1) The Commissioner or any member of the Force authorised
by the Commissioner in writing on producing (if so required) an
authenticated document showing his or her authority has a right to
enter any premises at all reasonable hours for the purpose of —

       (a) ascertaining whether there is or has been, on or in
            connection with the premises, any contravention of any
            of the provisions of this Act, or any contravention of or
            failure to comply with a licence condition imposed under
            section 51 or 52;

       (b) obtaining information required for firefighting purposes
            with respect to the character of the premises, the
            availability of water supplies and the means of access
            thereto and other material circumstances relating to
            firefighting purposes;

       (c) conducting fire drills and exercises, provided prior
            reasonable written notice is given to the owner or
            occupier of such premises;

       (d) ascertaining whether there exists in the premises any fire
            hazard;

       (e) obtaining any evidence of the commission of any offence
            under this Act or contravention of or failure to comply with
            any licence condition imposed under section 51 or 52 in the
            premises, where there is reason to suspect that there is such
            evidence;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       26

          (f) ascertaining whether or not any place of public assembly or
              premises used for purposes of entertainment or recreation
              are being used to accommodate a larger number of persons
              than is permitted under any regulations made under this
              Act;

(g) checking and testing fire safety measures; and

       (h) performance by the Commissioner or the Force of his or
            her or its powers under this or any other written law.

                                                                                    [14/2013; 10/2015; 22/2019]

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the Commissioner or any member of
the Force authorised under subsection (1) must not exercise the right
of entry conferred by subsection (1) unless 24 hours’ notice in writing
of the intended entry has been given to the occupier.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (3) Subsection (2) does not apply in respect of entry into a place of
public entertainment or public assembly, factory, workshop or
workplace or premises otherwise used for business purposes.

                                                                                [8

                                                                                                [14/2013; 10/2015]

Power to board vessel for various purposes

 15.—(1) The Commissioner or any member of the Force authorised
by the Commissioner in writing on producing (if so required) an
authenticated document showing his or her authority has a right to
board any vessel at all reasonable hours for all or any of the following
purposes:

       (a) obtaining information required for firefighting purposes
            with respect to the character of the vessel, the availability
            of water supplies and the means of access thereto and other
            material circumstances relating to firefighting purposes;

       (b) conducting fire drills and exercises;

       (c) performance by the Commissioner or the Force of his or
            her or its powers under this Act or any other written law.

                                                                                                [14/2013; 10/2015]

 (2) The Commissioner or any member of the Force authorised
under subsection (1) must not exercise the right to board any vessel

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
27  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

conferred by subsection (1) unless prior reasonable written notice has
been given to the owner of the vessel.

                                                                              [8A

                                                                                                [14/2013; 10/2015]

Power to enter premises, etc., up to 48 hours after fire

 16.—(1) For the purposes of investigating the cause or origin of any
fire which has occurred in or on any aircraft, vessel or vehicle, or in or
on any premises, the Commissioner, or a member of the Force or a
fire forensic specialist authorised by the Commissioner in writing —

    (a) may enter and inspect those premises or any adjacent
         premises, or may board the aircraft, vessel or vehicle, as
         the case may be; and

    (b) may seize or detain the aircraft or vehicle.

                                                               [10/2015]

 (2) The power conferred under subsection (1)(a) on the
Commissioner, or a member of the Force or a fire forensic
specialist authorised by the Commissioner, may be exercised —

    (a) without notice within a period of 48 hours after the fire on
         the premises, aircraft, vessel or vehicle (as the case may
         be) has been put out; and

    (b) in any other case, only after giving written notice of the
         intended entry to the occupier of the premises or intended
         boarding to the owner of the aircraft, vessel or vehicle, as
         the case may be.

                                                                                                     [10/2015]

 (3) However, this section does not authorise the Commissioner, or a
member of the Force or a fire forensic specialist, to enter any part of
any premises, or to board any part of an aircraft, vessel or vehicle (as
the case may be), without first producing (if so required) an
authenticated document showing his or her authority to so enter or
board.

                                                                                                           [10/2015]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       28

 (4) To avoid doubt, nothing in this section limits the powers of any
authority to investigate accidents under any written law for the time
being in force relating to air navigation or merchant shipping.

                                                                              [8B

                                                                                                           [10/2015]

Powers ancillary to sections 14, 15 or 16

 17.—(1) The Commissioner or any member of the Force or fire
forensic specialist exercising the powers under section 14, 15 or 16
may (so far as may be reasonably necessary for the purpose to which
his or her exercise of the powers relates) do all or any of the following
in the premises, aircraft, vehicle or vessel, as the case may be:

       (a) take with him or her any assistance or equipment;

       (b) search the premises, aircraft, vehicle or vessel;

       (c) take photographs or video recordings of and conduct any
            inspection, measurement or test on the premises, aircraft,
            vehicle or vessel or any thing found therein;

       (d) take, without payment, for the purpose of examination
            reasonable samples of any description from the premises,
            aircraft, vehicle or vessel;

       (e) seize or detain any thing found in the premises, aircraft,
            vehicle or vessel that he or she believes on reasonable
            grounds to be connected with the commission of any
            offence under this Act or to be otherwise relevant to the
            administration or enforcement of this Act;

        (f) do any other thing reasonably necessary for carrying out
            the purpose to which his or her exercise of the powers
            relates.

                                                                                                [14/2013; 10/2015]

 (2) For the purposes of section 14, 15 or 16 or subsection (1)(b), the
Commissioner, or a member of the Force or a fire forensic specialist
authorised under section 14, 15 or 16 (as the case may be), may —

       (a) require the owner or occupier of the premises, or the owner
            or person having charge of the aircraft, vehicle or vessel (as
            the case may be), to provide all reasonable assistance to the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
29  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

    Commissioner, or a member of the Force or a fire forensic
    specialist authorised under section 14, 15 or 16, as the case
    may be; and

       (b) if the circumstances so warrant, with such assistance as he
            or she thinks necessary, break open any door, window,
            lock, fastener, hold, compartment, box, container,
            receptacle or any other thing.

                                                                                                [14/2013; 10/2015]

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with any requirement made
under subsection (2)(a) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (4) Where the Commissioner, or a member of the Force or a fire
forensic specialist seizes any thing under subsection (1)(e), he or she
must —

    (a) immediately give written notice of the seizure to the owner
         of the thing seized or to the agent of such owner; or

       (b) if the name and address of the owner or agent of the thing
            seized are not known, affix a notice prominently at the
            place where the thing was seized.

                                                                                                [14/2013; 10/2015]

 (5) Any person aggrieved by the seizure of any thing under
subsection (1)(e) may, within 48 hours after the seizure, complain
thereof to a Magistrate’s Court.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (6) Upon hearing such complaint, the Magistrate’s Court may —

    (a) confirm the seizure wholly or in part;

    (b) disallow the seizure wholly or in part;

    (c) order that any thing seized be restored to its owner, subject
        to any condition which the Court may think fit to impose to
        ensure that the thing is preserved for any purpose for which
        it may subsequently be required; or

    (d) order payment to be made to the owner of the thing seized
         of such amount as the Court considers will compensate the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       30

            owner for any loss or depreciation resulting from the
            seizure.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (7) Any thing seized under subsection (1)(e) may be kept or stored
at the place where it was seized or may, at the direction of the
Commissioner, or a member of the Force or a fire forensic specialist
authorised under section 14, 15 or 16, be removed to any other place
to be kept or stored thereat.

                                                                                                [14/2013; 10/2015]

 (8) The Commissioner, or a member of the Force or a fire forensic
specialist authorised under section 14, 15 or 16 may mark, seal or
label any thing being detained under subsection (1)(e) in such manner
as he or she thinks fit for the purpose of indicating that the thing is
under detention and may lock or seal the place (or any part thereof) in
which the thing is being detained.

                                                                                                [14/2013; 10/2015]

 (9) Any person who, without the authority of the Commissioner, or
a member of the Force or a fire forensic specialist authorised under
section 14, 15 or 16, as the case may be —

(a) interferes with, removes or otherwise disposes of any thing
     seized or detained under section 14, 15 or 16 or tampers
     with, alters or removes any mark, seal or label placed under
     subsection (8); or

(b) opens, breaks or otherwise tampers with the lock or seal
     placed under subsection (8),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                                                                                [14/2013; 10/2015]

 (10) Subsections (4) to (9) apply to any aircraft or vehicle seized
under section 16 as if they were seized or detained under
subsection (1)(e).

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
31  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

 (11) Nothing in this section is to be taken to prejudice any right to
retain or dispose of property which may exist in law apart from this
section.

                                                                              [8C

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

Power to examine persons and secure attendance, etc.

 18.—(1) Where the Commissioner, or any member of the Force
authorised by the Commissioner in writing, reasonably suspects that
an offence has been committed under this Act, the Commissioner or
the authorised member may do all or any of the following:

       (a) examine orally any person who appears to be acquainted
            with matters related to the offence;

       (b) require, by written notice, any person within Singapore
            who appears to be acquainted with matters related to the
            offence, to attend before the Commissioner or the
            authorised member;

       (c) require any person to provide any information, produce
            any book or document related to the offence in the
            possession of that person, or provide a copy of the book or
            document;

       (d) without payment, inspect, take or retain copies of, or
            extracts from, any book, document or copy mentioned in
            paragraph (c).

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (2) A person is not excused from making an oral statement under
subsection (1)(a) on the ground that the statement might tend to
incriminate the person but, where the person claims before making
the statement that the statement might tend to incriminate the person,
that statement is not admissible in evidence against that person in
criminal proceedings other than proceedings for an offence under
subsection (4)(c) or (d).

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) A statement made by any person examined under this section
must —

       (a) be in writing;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       32

(b) be read over to the person;

          (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
              a language that the person understands; and

      (d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the person.

                                                                                                         [22/2019]

(4) A person commits an offence if the person —

(a) without reasonable excuse, neglects or refuses to provide
     any information or produce any book or document, or any
     copy of the book or document, required under this section;

(b) without reasonable excuse, neglects or refuses to attend
     before the Commissioner or the authorised member as
     required under this section;

          (c) provides any information or produces any book or
              document, or any copy of the book or document,
              required under this section that is false in a material
              particular and that the person knows to be false or does not
              believe to be true; or

       (d) by the intentional suppression of any material fact,
            provides information required under this section that is
            misleading.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (5) Any person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (4)(a)
or (b) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (6) Any person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (4)(c)
or (d) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                                                            [8CA

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

Exemption of Singapore Armed Forces

 19. Sections 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 do not apply to any aircraft,
vehicle or vessel belonging to or exclusively employed in the service

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
33  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

of the Singapore Armed Forces or of any visiting force lawfully
present in Singapore.

                                                                              [8D

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

Fire forensic specialists

 20.—(1) The Minister may, in writing, appoint any of the following
individuals to be fire forensic specialists to assist the Commissioner,
or any member of the Force authorised by the Commissioner under
section 16, exercising in Singapore a power under that section or
section 17:

       (a) a public officer (except an operations support officer at
            grade III, IV or V or other public officer at equivalent
            grade) who is not a member of the Force but is employed in
            the offices of the Force;

       (b) an individual (who is not a public officer) with suitable
            qualifications or experience to properly exercise the
            powers of a fire forensic specialist.

                                                                                                 [10/2015; 5/2018]

 (2) A fire forensic specialist’s appointment is to be for such period
as the Minister decides and, for an individual mentioned in
subsection (1)(b), is to be on such terms and conditions (including
remuneration) as the Minister decides from time to time.

                                                                                                           [10/2015]

 (3) The Minister may, for any reason that appears to the Minister to
be sufficient, at any time revoke an individual’s appointment as a fire
forensic specialist.

                                                                                                           [10/2015]

 (4) The Commissioner must issue to each fire forensic specialist an
identification card, which must be carried at all times by the fire
forensic specialist when exercising powers under any provision in
this Act.

                                                                                                           [10/2015]

 (5) A fire forensic specialist whose appointment as such ceases
must return any identification card issued to him or her under
subsection (4) to the Commissioner.

                                                                                                           [10/2015]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       34

 (6) A fire forensic specialist is not a member of the Force, and an
individual mentioned in subsection (1)(b) who is appointed as a fire
forensic specialist under that subsection does not, by virtue only of
that appointment, become an employee or agent of the Government.

                                                                                                           [10/2015]

 (7) A fire forensic specialist is to be issued with such equipment, or
such description of equipment, as the Commissioner may determine.

                                                                                                           [10/2015]

 (8) The Commissioner may, in writing, authorise a fire forensic
specialist to exercise any of the powers in sections 16 and 17 in aid of
any member of the Force or class of such members, as the
Commissioner may specify in that authorisation, but the
Commissioner cannot authorise under this subsection any fire
forensic specialist to arrest any individual.

                                                                                                           [10/2015]

 (9) The Commissioner’s authorisation under subsection (8) for a
fire forensic specialist may do any or all of the following:

(a) limit the powers in sections 16 and 17 that the fire forensic
     specialist may exercise;

(b) limit when the fire forensic specialist may exercise his or
     her powers in sections 16 and 17 or any of them;

          (c) limit where in Singapore the fire forensic specialist may
              exercise his or her powers in sections 16 and 17 or any of
              them;

(d) limit the circumstances in which the fire forensic specialist
     may exercise his or her powers in sections 16 and 17 or any
     of them;

       (e) limit the purposes for which the fire forensic specialist may
            exercise his or her powers in sections 16 and 17 or any of
            them.

                                                                                                           [10/2015]

 (10) A fire forensic specialist who under this section is authorised
by the Commissioner to exercise any power under section 16 or 17 to
assist the Commissioner or a member of the Force —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
35  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

    (a) must obey all lawful directions (general or specific) of the
         Commissioner and the member of the Force when
         exercising such power; and

       (b) is deemed to be a public servant for the purposes of the
            Penal Code 1871 when exercising such power.

                                                                                                           [10/2015]

 (11) Without prejudice to subsection (10), where any law or written
law protects a member of the Force from liability for the member’s
acts or omissions, that law or written law is taken to operate as if those
acts or omissions included the fire forensic specialist’s acts or
omissions when acting in the course of his or her duty as a fire
forensic specialist in accordance with the written authorisation of the
Commissioner under this Part and the lawful directions of the
member of the Force he or she assists.

                                                                                                           [10/2015]

 (12) To avoid doubt, a fire forensic specialist does not cease to be
acting on the direction of a member of the Force by reason only that
that member of the Force is not present at all times when the fire
forensic specialist exercises any power under section 16 or 17.

                                                                              [8E

                                                                                                           [10/2015]

Appointment of supplementary enforcement officers

 21.—(1) The Commissioner may appoint an individual (including
an employee of a public authority) as a supplementary enforcement
officer to do all or any of the following, if the individual is suitably
trained to do so:

       (a) to exercise the power in section 14(1)(a), (d), (f) or (g);

       (b) to do anything authorised in section 17(1)(a), (b), (c) or (f)
            or (2)(a) when exercising any power or doing anything
            mentioned in paragraph (a);

       (c) to exercise the power or do anything authorised in
            section 28(1), 101(1) or 108(1) or (2) in relation to an
            offence under this Act that is prescribed for the purposes of
            this paragraph.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       36

 (2) An appointment under subsection (1) is subject to the provisions
of this Act and any conditions or limitations specified by the
Commissioner.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) Section 14, 17, 28(1), 101(1) or 108 applies to an individual
appointed under subsection (1) as if the individual were —

(a) in the case of section 14 or 17 — a member of the Force
     authorised by the Commissioner;

(b) in the case of section 28 or 101(1) — the Commissioner;
     and

       (c) in the case of section 108 — an authorised officer.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) An individual appointed under subsection (1) who, in the course
of duty as an individual so appointed, exercises any power mentioned
in subsection (1), is deemed to be a public servant for the purposes of
the Penal Code 1871 when exercising such power.

                                                                               [8F

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

Power to fix plate showing position of fire hydrant

 22.—(1) Upon giving 7 days’ notice in writing to the owner or
occupier of any property situate in the vicinity of a fire hydrant or
water supply, the Commissioner may thereafter cause a plate
indicating the location of such fire hydrant or water supply to be
fixed to any part of the property as may, in the opinion of the
Commissioner, be best suited to indicate such location.

 (2) Any person who refuses to allow the fixing of any plate
mentioned in subsection (1), or obstructs any person in the course of
the fixing thereof or removes or defaces any such plate after it has
been so fixed shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

                                                                                [9

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
37  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

Power to install fire hydrants

 23. The Commissioner may place or cause to be placed fire
hydrants as the Commissioner may think necessary at convenient
places in streets or roads.

                                                                               [10

Damaging, etc., of fire hydrants

 24.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) not being a member of the Force takes water from a fire
            hydrant other than for the extinguishment of a fire without
            the consent of the Commissioner or the Public Utilities
            Board, as the case may be; or

       (b) wilfully damages a fire hydrant,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000.

 (2) Any person convicted of an offence under subsection (1)(b)
shall, in addition to the fine imposed on the person under that
subsection, also be liable to pay compensation to the Public Utilities
Board for any expenses reasonably incurred in repairing or replacing
such fire hydrant.

                                                                               [11

False alarm

 25.—(1) Any person who knowingly gives or causes to be given a
false alarm of fire to the Force or to the police shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both.

 (2) For the purposes of this section, “false alarm of fire” includes a
false call for the ambulance or other services provided by the Force.

                                                                               [12

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.          Fire Safety Act 1993                                     38
                        PART 2
                                                                     [14/2013]
          FIRE HAZARD IN PREMISES

Offence for owner or occupier to cause, etc., specified fire
hazard

 26.—(1) An owner or occupier of any building commits an offence
if the owner or occupier causes, or does or omits to do anything that is
likely to cause, a specified fire hazard to arise at the building.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (2) An owner or occupier of any building commits an offence if the
owner or occupier knows or ought to know that —

       (a) there is a specified fire hazard in the building; or

       (b) a specified fire hazard is likely to arise at the building,

but does not take reasonable steps to abate the specified fire hazard or
prevent the specified fire hazard from arising, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (1), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
cause a specified fire hazard to arise at the building.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) The offence under subsection (1) is a strict liability offence.
                                                                             [12A

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

Offence for any person to cause specified fire hazard

 27. A person commits an offence if the person does anything or
omits to do anything that causes or is likely to cause —

       (a) any fire safety measure in the premises not to be in proper
            working order; or

       (b) any escape route, passageway, common property or limited
            common property of a building to be obstructed —

               (i) such as might render escape in the event of fire more
                   difficult; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
39  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

    (ii) which obstruction cannot be easily removed by an
         individual escaping from a fire,

and the person knows or ought to know that the act or omission causes
or is likely to cause the effect mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b).

                                                                             [12B

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

Abatement of fire hazards

 28.—(1) The Commissioner may, if satisfied of the existence in or
on any premises of any fire hazard, serve —

       (a) upon the person by reason of whose act, default or
            sufferance the fire hazard arose or continues;

       (b) if such person is the employee or agent of some other
            person, upon such other person; or

       (c) upon the occupier or owner of the premises in or on which
            such fire hazard exists,

a written notice requiring the person to abate the fire hazard within
the period specified in the notice, and to do all such things as may be
necessary for that purpose, and to take all steps necessary to prevent
the recurrence of such fire hazard.

 (2) The notice may, if the Commissioner thinks fit, specify any
works to be executed for the purposes mentioned in subsection (1).

 (3) The notice may, if the Commissioner thinks fit, require the
person on whom the notice is served under subsection (1) to submit,
within the period specified in the notice, a fire hazard mitigation plan
to prevent such fire hazard from recurring in or on the premises.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (4) Where the person by reason of whose act, default or sufferance a
fire hazard arose or continues cannot be found and it is clear that the
fire hazard neither arose nor continues by reason of any act, default or
sufferance on the part of the occupier or owner of the premises in or
on which it exists, the Commissioner may abate the fire hazard and
may do what is necessary to prevent a recurrence thereof.

 (5) Where a fire hazard abatement notice has been served on any
person under subsection (1) and that person —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       40

(a) fails to comply with any of the requirements within the
     time specified in the notice; or

(b) fails to take such steps as are specified in the notice to
     prevent the recurrence of the fire hazard,

the person shall, whether or not an order under section 31 has been
made in respect of him, be guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [13

Commissioner may abate fire hazard in emergency

 29.—(1) Where a fire hazard abatement notice has been served
upon any person under section 28 and if the person on whom the
notice has been served fails to comply with any of the requirements of
the notice within the time specified in the notice, the Commissioner
may, if the Commissioner is satisfied that the fire hazard to which the
notice relates —

       (a) constitutes an immediate or substantial danger of fire in or
            on the premises; or

       (b) is likely, if fire breaks out in or on the premises, to increase
            the normal risk to life which occurs in the event of a fire,

cause to be carried out in or on the premises such work, including the
removal and seizure of any property causing the fire hazard, as
appears to the Commissioner to be necessary to abate the fire hazard
and to prevent a recurrence of the fire hazard.

 (2) The Commissioner may recover the expenses incurred under
subsection (1), from the person on whom the notice has been served.

                                                                               [14

Power to order closure of premises in emergency

 30.—(1) The Commissioner may, if the Commissioner is satisfied
of the matters specified in section 29 and that it is necessary for the
safety of persons that the premises should be closed immediately —

       (a) order the owner or occupier of the premises to close the
            premises immediately for such period not exceeding
            72 hours as is specified in that order and as the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
41  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

    Commissioner considers necessary for the alleviation of
    the danger in question; or

       (b) if an order referred to in paragraph (a) cannot for any
            reason be given to the owner or occupier of the premises or
            if such an order, having been given to that owner or
            occupier, is not immediately obeyed, close the premises for
            such period not exceeding 72 hours as the Commissioner
            considers necessary for the alleviation of the danger in
            question, using such force as is reasonably necessary for
            the removal from the premises of persons therein without
            doing them bodily harm.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (2) The Commissioner may exercise the powers under
subsection (1)(a) or (b) in respect of the occurrence of a fire
hazard, whether or not the fire hazard has been abated since the
service of a fire hazard abatement notice on the owner or occupier of
the premises under section 28, if —

    (a) within the 24 months immediately before that fire hazard
         arose, the same owner or occupier of the premises (as the
         case may be) had been convicted of any combination of 3
         or more offences under subsection (10) or section 28(5),
         31(5) or 32(4) in respect of the premises, whether or not
         any of those offences related to a fire hazard similar to that
         fire hazard;

    (b) the Commissioner is satisfied that it is necessary for the
         safety of persons for the premises to be closed
         immediately; and

       (c) the Commissioner has not previously exercised the powers
            under this subsection in respect of the same occurrence of
            the fire hazard.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (3) The period of 24 months mentioned in subsection (2)(a) must
not start on a date earlier than 1 September 2013.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (4) The Commissioner giving an order under subsection (1) or (2)
must do so —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       42

(a) in writing served on the owner or occupier of the premises
     in question; or

       (b) orally, in which case the Commissioner must, as soon as is
            practicable thereafter, serve on the owner or occupier of the
            premises in question confirmation in writing of the
            contents of that order and of the time and place at which
            that order was so given, and must cause a copy of that order
            or confirmation (as the case requires) to be affixed to those
            premises in a conspicuous position.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (5) The Commissioner may, if he or she considers that the danger to
which an order given under subsection (1) or (2) relates has been
alleviated, rescind that order.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (6) Any police officer may, if requested by the Commissioner or an
authorised officer to do so, assist the Commissioner or authorised
officer in the exercise of any power conferred on the Commissioner
by this section.

 (7) If the Commissioner or an authorised officer considers that a
danger in relation to which he or she has exercised the power
conferred on him or her by subsection (1) or (2) cannot be, or has not
been, alleviated within a period of 72 hours mentioned in
subsection (1), he or she must, having given such prior notice of
his or her intention to do so to the owner or occupier of the premises
in question as is practicable in the circumstances, apply to a
Magistrate’s Court for an order directing the owner or occupier to
close or keep closed (as the case requires) those premises for such
period as the Court considers necessary for the alleviation of that
danger.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (8) A Magistrate’s Court may, on an application made to the Court
under subsection (7), grant, subject to such conditions as the Court
thinks fit to impose, the order sought by the application.

 (9) If an application is made to a Magistrate’s Court under
subsection (7) while the premises in question are closed under

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
43  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

subsection (1) or (2), that closure continues until the application is
finally determined or is withdrawn.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (10) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with any closing order given by the Commissioner under
subsection (1) or (2) or the order made by the Magistrate’s Court
under subsection (8) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction —

    (a) to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
         term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

       (b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (11) In considering whether it is necessary for the safety of persons
for the premises to be closed immediately or whether a danger has
been alleviated, in relation to the application of this section to a fire
hazard, the Commissioner or the Magistrate’s Court (as the case may
be) may consider whether —

    (a) that fire hazard is likely to recur in or on the premises; and

    (b) that fire hazard, if it were to recur in or on the premises,
         would —

    (i) constitute an immediate or substantial danger of fire
        in or on the premises; or

    (ii) be likely, if a fire breaks out in or on the premises, to
         increase the normal risk to life which occurs in the
         event of a fire.
                                                                    [15

                                                                                           [14/2013]

Fire hazard order

 31.—(1) Where a fire hazard abatement notice is served on any
person, and if —

       (a) that person fails to comply with any of the requirements of
            the notice within the time specified in the notice; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       44

(b) the fire hazard, although abated since the service of the
     notice, is, in the opinion of the Commissioner, likely to
     recur in or on the same premises,

the Commissioner may make a complaint to a Magistrate’s Court and
the Court hearing the complaint may grant or refuse to grant a fire
hazard order.

(2) A fire hazard order mentioned in subsection (1) may be —

(a) an abatement order, that is to say, an order which requires a
     person to comply with all or any of the requirements of a
     fire hazard abatement notice in connection with which the
     order is made, or otherwise to abate the fire hazard or to do
     what may be necessary to prevent the recurrence of the fire
     hazard within the period specified in the order;

(b) a prohibition order, that is to say, an order which prohibits
     the use of any premises for such activities as are specified
     in the order which activities may materially increase the
     likelihood of fire or danger to life or property resulting
     from the outbreak of fire in or on the premises;

          (c) a closing order, that is to say, an order authorising the
              closure of any premises which are likely to be a danger to
              life or property in the event of fire; or

(d) a combination of such orders.

 (3) An abatement order or a prohibition order must, if the person in
respect of whom the order is made so requires or if the Magistrate’s
Court making the order considers it desirable, specify the works to be
executed by such person for the purpose of abating, or of preventing
the recurrence of, the fire hazard to which the order relates.

 (4) A Magistrate’s Court, if satisfied that any premises in respect of
which a prohibition order or a closing order granted under
section 30(8) or this section is in force have been rendered suitable
for the use specified in the order, may, on application by the
Commissioner or the owner or occupier of the premises, declare that
it is so satisfied and revoke the prohibition order or closing order.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
45  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

 (5) Any person in respect of whom a fire hazard order is made who,
without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with the order shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 and, in the case of a
         continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000
         for every day or part of a day during which the offence
         continues after conviction; or

       (b) where the offence involves failure to comply with a closing
            order, to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment
            for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both and, in the
            case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding
            $1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
            offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (6) Without prejudice to subsection (5), where a fire hazard order
has not been complied with, the Commissioner may abate the fire
hazard and may do whatever may be necessary in the execution of the
order, and may recover any expenses reasonably incurred thereby
from the person against whom the order was made.

                                                                               [16

Provision as to appeal against order

 32.—(1) Where a person appeals to the General Division of the
High Court against a fire hazard order, the fire hazard order is
suspended pending the determination or abandonment of the appeal.

                                                                                                [14/2013; 40/2019]

 (2) If the fire hazard order has not been quashed on appeal, the
period for compliance with the requirements of the fire hazard order
starts to run on the determination or abandonment of the appeal.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (3) There is no appeal to the General Division of the High Court
against a fire hazard order, unless it is or includes a closing order or
requires the execution of structural works.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (4) If the appeal against a fire hazard order is dismissed or is
abandoned, then despite subsections (1) and (2), the appellant shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       46

exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during the period
prior to the dismissal or abandonment of the appeal when the fire
hazard order was not complied with.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (5) A fine under subsection (4) is not payable if the appellant
satisfies the court before which proceedings are taken for the
imposition of the fine that there was substantial ground for the appeal
and that the appeal was not brought merely for the purpose of delay.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (6) In the event of an appeal against a fire hazard order, no work,
except as mentioned in subsection (7), may be done under
section 31(6) under the order until after the determination or
abandonment of the appeal.

 (7) If the court by which the order was made is of the opinion that
the nature of the fire hazard is such as to require immediate
abatement, the court may, even though the appeal is pending,
authorise the Commissioner immediately to abate the hazard.

(8) Despite subsection (7) —

(a) if the appeal is allowed, the Commissioner must pay to the
     person against whom the order was made the amount of
     any damage sustained by the person by reason of the
     abatement of the hazard by the Commissioner; and

(b) if the appeal is dismissed or abandoned, the Commissioner
     may recover from such person the expenses incurred by the
     Commissioner in abating the hazard in the manner
     provided for in section 34.
                                                                       [17

Property and materials seized or removed by Commissioner in
abating fire hazard

 33.—(1) Any property or materials seized or removed by the
Commissioner in abating or doing what is necessary to prevent the
recurrence of a fire hazard under this Act or in enforcing any
regulations made under this Act, may be confiscated by the
Commissioner or may, on application by the owner within 2 weeks

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
47  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

of such seizure or removal, be returned to the owner on such terms
and conditions as the Commissioner thinks fit.

 (2) Any property or materials confiscated by the Commissioner
under subsection (1) may be sold or disposed of in such manner as the
Minister may direct.

 (3) The money arising from the sale of any property under
subsection (2) may be retained by the Commissioner and applied
in payment of the expenses incurred by the Commissioner in
connection with the abatement of the fire hazard and the surplus (if
any) must be paid —

    (a) to the owner of such property if the owner applies therefor
         within 12 months of the date of the sale; or

    (b) into the Consolidated Fund if, or to the extent to which, the
         surplus is not disposed of under paragraph (a).
                                                                           [18

Recovery of costs and expenses by Commissioner

 34.—(1) If all and any sums payable by or recoverable from the
owner in respect of costs and expenses incurred by the Commissioner
in or about the execution of any work which are under this Act
recoverable from the owner of any premises are not paid by the owner
within 14 days after demand, such sums may be reported to a District
Court or a Magistrate’s Court and recovered in the same manner as if
it were a fine imposed by a District Court or a Magistrate’s Court, as
the case may be.

 (2) An appeal lies to the General Division of the High Court from
any decision of a District Court or a Magistrate’s Court under this
section, and the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010
apply, with the necessary modifications, to all such appeals.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) The person liable to pay any sum under subsection (1) is the
owner at the time when the work was completed.

 (4) Any occupier who, when requested by or on behalf of the
Commissioner to state the name of the owner of the premises, refuses
or wilfully omits to disclose or wilfully misstates the same shall,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       48

unless the occupier shows cause to the satisfaction of a District Court
or a Magistrate’s Court for the occupier’s refusal or misstatement, be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1,000.

                                                                               [19

                                    PART 3

                 FIRE PREVENTION IN BUILDINGS

Fire certificate

 35.—(1) This section applies only to buildings or classes of
buildings that the Minister, by notification in the Gazette, designates.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (2) A person must not —

       (a) occupy or use a building; or

       (b) permit a building owned or managed by the person to be
            occupied or used,

unless there is a fire certificate authorising the occupation or use.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) An application for a fire certificate for a building must be made
in accordance with regulations made under this Act.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (5) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (4) in relation
to the use or occupation of a building, it is not necessary for the
prosecution to prove that the defendant knew that there was no fire
certificate authorising the use or occupation of the building.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (6) The offence under subsection (4) is a strict liability offence.
                                                                               [20

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
49  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

Order to install fire safety measures

 36.—(1) Where the Commissioner is of the view that the provision
or installation of a fire safety measure in any building is necessary for
public safety, the Commissioner may, by written order given to the
owner of the building, require the owner to provide or install, at the
owner’s expense, the fire safety measure within the time specified in
the written order.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (2) To avoid doubt, a requirement may be given under
subsection (1) whether or not the owner is carrying out or
proposing to carry out any fire safety works in relation to that
building.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) Any owner of a building who fails to comply with any
requirement under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
         term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

       (b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) The offence under subsection (3) is a strict liability offence.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (5) Any owner of a building who is aggrieved by the
Commissioner’s requirement under subsection (1) may, within
14 days after being notified of the written order, appeal to the
Minister.

                                                                             [20A

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

Emergency Response Plan

 37.—(1) The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette,
designate any premises or class of premises for which an
Emergency Response Plan must be provided.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       50

 (2) Such Emergency Response Plan must conform to such
requirements as may be prescribed in any regulations made under
this Act, and such requirements may differ for different classes of
premises.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (3) The owner or occupier of the premises is responsible for the
preparation and execution of the Emergency Response Plan,
including the distribution of the Emergency Response Plan to the
occupants of such premises.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (4) The owner or occupier of the premises must organise and
conduct evacuation drills on an annual basis or at such frequency or
upon such occasion as may be directed by the Commissioner.

 (5) The Commissioner may direct the owner or occupier of the
premises to do any of the following:

(a) implement fire safety programmes for occupants of the
     premises, within the time specified in the direction;

       (b) maintain records of fire safety programmes conducted for
            the premises, for the period specified in the direction.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (2), (3) or (4), or who,
without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a direction of the
Commissioner under subsection (5), shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (7) Unless otherwise prescribed under this Act, this Act applies to a
fire emergency plan prepared before 1 September 2013 in like
manner as it applies to an Emergency Response Plan.

                                                                               [21

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

Fire safety managers and Company Emergency Response
Teams

 38.—(1) The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, specify
any premises or class of premises in which the owner or occupier of
the premises is required to appoint fire safety managers and Company

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
51  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

Emergency Response Teams in respect of such premises or class of
premises.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (2) The owner or occupier of the premises must ensure that the fire
safety measures and fire safety practices of such premises comply
with the requirements of this Act.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (3) The fire safety manager and Company Emergency Response
Team of the premises must —

    (a) assist the owner or occupier of the premises in the
         performance of the owner or occupier’s duties under this
         Act; and

       (b) perform such duties with respect to the premises as may be
            prescribed.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) If the Commissioner is satisfied that any particular premises
mentioned in subsection (1) are at-risk premises, the Commissioner
may, by written notice given to the owner or occupier of the particular
premises, require the owner or occupier to do all or any of the
following:

    (a) establish and maintain for the particular premises a
         Company Emergency Response Team comprising a
         specified number of members that is higher than the
         number prescribed;

    (b) provide the Company Emergency Response Team for the
         particular premises with such additional pieces or types of
         fire safety equipment as the Commissioner considers
         necessary for the premises, in addition to that prescribed;

       (c) notify the Commissioner of any intended change in
            ownership or occupancy of the particular premises at
            least 14 days before the change in ownership or occupancy
            is to take effect.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (5) Premises are at‑risk premises for the purposes of subsection (4)
where —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       52

(a) the risk of fire occurring in or spreading in or from the
     particular premises is higher than that for other premises in
     general; or

       (b) the age, physical ability or such other characteristics of the
            individuals who occupy or frequent the particular premises
            render escape by these individuals in the event of fire more
            difficult.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) or (3) or fails to
comply with the Commissioner’s written notice under subsection (4)
shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (7) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (6), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (8) The offence under subsection (6) is a strict liability offence.
                                                                               [22

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

Extension of time

 39.—(1) The Commissioner may do all or any of the following:

       (a) extend the period for doing anything under this Part
            (including in a direction or a written notice given under this
            Part);

       (b) shorten the period of an extension granted under
            paragraph (a);

       (c) impose conditions for an extension granted under
            paragraph (a).

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (2) Any owner or occupier of a building who is aggrieved by the
Commissioner’s decision to shorten the period of an extension under
subsection (1)(b) to do anything in relation to the building may appeal
to the Minister within 14 days after being notified of the
Commissioner’s decision.

                                                                          [22AA

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
53  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

Meaning of owner or occupier in this Part

 40. In this Part, where a building or premises is a building erected
on land comprised in a strata subdivision plan approved by the
competent authority, references to the owner or occupier of the
building or premises do not include references to the subsidiary
proprietors or tenants of any part of the building or premises.

                                                                           [22AB

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

                                   PART 3A

                       FIRE SAFETY ENGINEERS

Duties and responsibilities of fire safety engineers

 41.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person must not
prepare or propose, or hold out or advertise in any way that the person
is willing to prepare or propose, plans for any fire safety works using
any alternative solution to satisfy any fire performance requirements
unless the person is —

       (a) an appropriate qualified person who is also a fire safety
            engineer; or

       (b) a qualified person preparing or proposing the alternative
            solution under the direct supervision of a fire safety
            engineer.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 22/2019]

 (2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person who is not a fire
safety engineer must not act as a peer reviewer.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (3) Where a fire safety engineer prepares or proposes, or supervises
the preparation or proposal of, any plan for fire safety works using
any alternative solution to satisfy any fire performance requirements,
he or she must take all reasonable steps and exercise due diligence to
ensure that the alternative solution satisfies those fire performance
requirements.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (4) Where a fire safety engineer is appointed as a peer reviewer to
review and assess whether any alternative solution satisfies any fire

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       54

performance requirements, the peer reviewer must not issue any
certification under section 55(5)(a)(iii) unless he or she has taken all
reasonable steps and exercised due diligence to ensure that the
alternative solution in respect of which his or her certification is being
sought satisfies those fire performance requirements.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (5) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a peer reviewer must not, at
any time when reviewing and assessing whether any alternative
solution used in any plan for any fire safety works satisfies any fire
performance requirements, have any professional or financial interest
in —

(a) the fire safety works or the building works in respect of
     which his or her duties and responsibilities as peer
     reviewer are to be carried out; or

       (b) the building or relevant pipeline, or any part thereof, to
            which the fire safety works relate.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (6) A peer reviewer is regarded as having a professional or financial
interest in any fire safety works or building works, or in any building
or relevant pipeline, or any part thereof, if —

(a) the peer reviewer is or has been responsible for, or is acting
     as the consultant for, the design or construction of the
     building or relevant pipeline or any of the fire safety works
     in any capacity;

(b) the peer reviewer, or any nominee of the peer reviewer, is a
     member, officer or employee of a company or other body
     which has a professional or financial interest in the
     building or relevant pipeline, or any part thereof, or in
     the building works or fire safety works; or

          (c) the peer reviewer is a partner or is in the employment of a
              person who has a professional or financial interest in the
              building or relevant pipeline, or any part thereof, or in the
              building works or fire safety works.

                                                                                                [7/2004; 14/2013]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
55  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

(7) For the purposes of this section —

    (a) a person is regarded as having a professional or financial
         interest in the building or relevant pipeline, or any part
         thereof, or in any building works or fire safety works, even
         if the person has that interest only as a trustee for the
         benefit of some other person; and

      (b) in the case of a husband and wife living together, the
           interest of one spouse is, if known to the other, deemed to
           be also an interest of the other.

                                                                                               [7/2004; 14/2013]

(8) To avoid doubt —

    (a) involvement in the fire safety works as a peer reviewer;
         and

    (b) entitlement to any fee paid for acting as a peer reviewer,

are not regarded as constituting a professional or financial interest.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (9) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (10) Any fire safety engineer who contravenes subsection (3), (4) or
(5) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $200,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                             [22A

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 22/2019]

Registration of fire safety engineers

 42.—(1) An application for registration as a fire safety engineer
must be made to the Commissioner in such form and manner, and be
accompanied by such documents, particulars and fee, as may be
prescribed.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (2) A person must not be registered as a fire safety engineer unless
the person can satisfy the Commissioner that the person possesses the
prescribed qualifications and practical experience.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       56

 (3) The Commissioner may, subject to such conditions as the
Commissioner may impose, exempt any person from the
requirements in subsection (2) if the Commissioner is satisfied that
the person possesses such other qualifications or practical experience
as the Commissioner considers adequate to enable that person to
effectively carry out that person’s duties and responsibilities as a fire
safety engineer under this Act.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (4) The Commissioner may —

(a) appoint a committee of persons to assist the Commissioner
     in considering applications for registration as fire safety
     engineers; and

       (b) by himself or herself or through the committee appointed
            under paragraph (a), interview the applicants and make
            such enquiries or do anything which the Commissioner
            may think necessary or expedient for the purposes of
            subsections (2) and (5).

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (5) The Commissioner may refuse to register any applicant who, in
the Commissioner’s opinion —

(a) is not of good character and reputation; or

       (b) is unable to effectively carry out his or her duties and
            responsibilities as a fire safety engineer under this Act.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (6) Any person whose application for registration has been refused
may, within 14 days after receiving notice of such refusal, appeal to
the Minister.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 22/2019]

 (7) The Commissioner must issue a certificate of registration to
every person registered as a fire safety engineer.

                                                                             [22B

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

Disciplinary action against fire safety engineers

 43.—(1) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that the fire safety
engineer —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
57  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

    (a) has been convicted of any offence under this Act, or any
         other offence involving fraud or dishonesty;

    (b) has obtained his or her registration under this Act by fraud
         or misrepresentation;

    (c) has his or her qualification for registration withdrawn or
        cancelled by the institution or authority through which it
        was acquired or by which it was awarded;

    (d) has contravened section 41(3), (4) or (5);

    (e) has not complied with the prescribed requirements relating
        to such continuing professional education programme for a
        fire safety engineer, or has failed to submit records relating
        thereto, as the Commissioner may require;

    (f) is no longer in a position to effectively carry out his or her
        duties or responsibilities as a fire safety engineer or peer
        reviewer under this Act;

    (g) has his or her registration as a registered inspector
         cancelled or has been suspended from practice as a
         registered inspector, where the fire safety engineer is
         also a registered inspector;

    (h) has for any reason ceased to be a qualified person, where
         the fire safety engineer is also a qualified person; or

    (i) has not complied with any condition of his or her
        registration,

the Commissioner may, after giving the fire safety engineer
concerned a reasonable opportunity of being heard, either orally or
in writing, exercise any of the powers in subsection (2).

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (2) The powers the Commissioner may exercise under
subsection (1) in relation to a fire safety engineer are as follows:

    (a) cancel the registration of the fire safety engineer;

    (b) suspend the registration of the fire safety engineer for a
         period not exceeding 12 months;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       58

          (c) impose such conditions as are necessary to restrict the
              practice of the fire safety engineer for a period not
              exceeding 12 months, including any condition requiring
              the fire safety engineer to undergo further training, to
              practise only under supervision or to cease acting as a peer
              reviewer;

(d) require the fire safety engineer to give such undertaking as
     the Commissioner thinks fit;

          (e) impose on the fire safety engineer a penalty not exceeding
              $5,000;

          (f) censure the fire safety engineer in writing;

(g) dismiss the complaint against the fire safety engineer; or

       (h) make such other orders as the Commissioner thinks fit.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (3) Where a fire safety engineer in respect of whom any conditions
have been imposed, or any undertaking is required to be given, under
subsection (2)(c) or (d) fails to comply with any of the conditions or
breaches his or her undertaking, or the fire safety engineer fails to pay
the penalty under subsection (2)(e), the Commissioner may, if the
Commissioner thinks fit, after giving the fire safety engineer
concerned a reasonable opportunity of being heard either orally or
in writing, by order —

(a) cancel the registration of the fire safety engineer; or

       (b) suspend the registration of the fire safety engineer for such
            period not exceeding 12 months as may be specified in the
            order.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (4) The Commissioner may, by written notice served on the fire
safety engineer concerned, vary or revoke any of the conditions
imposed on the fire safety engineer under subsection (2)(c).

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (5) Any decision of the Commissioner under subsection (2), (3) or
(4) in relation to a fire safety engineer does not take effect until the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
59  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

15th day after the date on which the decision is communicated to the
fire safety engineer concerned.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (6) Any person against whom the Commissioner has made any
decision under subsection (2), (3) or (4) may, if aggrieved by the
decision, appeal to the Minister within a period of 14 days after
receiving notice of such decision.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (7) Any penalty imposed on a fire safety engineer under
subsection (2)(e) is recoverable as a debt due from the fire safety
engineer.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (8) In any proceedings under this section and section 44 against a
fire safety engineer consequent upon his or her conviction for an
offence, the Commissioner and an Inquiry Committee must accept his
or her conviction as final and conclusive.

                                                                             [22C

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

Inquiry Committee

 44.—(1) The Commissioner may constitute an Inquiry Committee
and refer a complaint or information to the Committee to
investigate —

       (a) if the Commissioner receives any written complaint
            against or any written information about the conduct of a
            fire safety engineer as a peer reviewer or otherwise, or the
            discharge of his or her duties as a fire safety engineer or
            peer reviewer; or

       (b) on his or her own motion, if the Commissioner reasonably
            suspects that there may be grounds for disciplinary action
            against the fire safety engineer.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (2) An Inquiry Committee must consist of —

       (a) a chairperson;

       (b) 2 fire safety engineers who are not members of the Force;
            and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       60

          (c) 2 other members who are members of the Force,

all of whom must be appointed by the Commissioner from the Fire
Safety Engineers Inquiry Panel constituted under section 45.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (3) An Inquiry Committee must —

(a) within a reasonable time of its constitution, commence its
     inquiry into the complaint against or information referred
     to it by the Commissioner under subsection (1); and

       (b) submit to the Commissioner a written report of its findings
            and its recommendations not later than 6 months after its
            constitution, or such later date as the Commissioner may,
            in any special case, permit.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (4) The Commissioner may, for the purposes of exercising the
Commissioner’s powers under section 43(1) in respect of a fire safety
engineer, consider the findings and recommendations of any Inquiry
Committee constituted to investigate any complaint against or
information about that fire safety engineer.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (5) Where the complainant withdraws the complaint before the
Inquiry Committee is constituted or before the inquiry by the
Committee is concluded, the Commissioner may, despite such
withdrawal, constitute an Inquiry Committee and direct it to
investigate, or may direct the Inquiry Committee to continue with
its inquiry, into the matter, and the Inquiry Committee must comply
with that direction.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (6) Where an Inquiry Committee is of the opinion that a fire safety
engineer should be called upon to answer any allegation made against
him or her, the Inquiry Committee must —

(a) post or deliver to the fire safety engineer concerned —

          (i) copies of any complaint or information touching
              upon his or her conduct, including any statutory
              declaration or affidavit that may be made in support
              of the complaint or information; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
61  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

    (ii) a notice inviting him or her to give, within such
         period (being at least 14 days) as may be specified in
         the notice, to the Inquiry Committee any written
         explanation he or she may wish to offer and to advise
         the Committee if he or she wishes to be heard by the
         Committee;

    (b) allow the time specified in the notice to elapse;

    (c) give the fire safety engineer concerned a reasonable
        opportunity to be heard if he or she so desires; and

       (d) give due consideration to any explanation (if any) given by
            the fire safety engineer concerned.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (7) For the purposes of any inquiry into any complaint or
information referred to it under subsection (1), an Inquiry
Committee may —

    (a) require evidence to be given on oath and for that purpose,
         the chairperson of the Inquiry Committee may administer
         an oath;

    (b) require any person to attend and give evidence before it,
         and to produce all plans, books, documents or papers in the
         possession of, or under the control of, that person relating
         to the subject matter of the inquiry; or

      (c) appoint any person to make or assist in the making of such
           preliminary inquiries as the Inquiry Committee thinks fit.

                                                                                               [7/2004; 14/2013]

(8) Any person who, without lawful excuse, refuses or fails to —

    (a) attend and give evidence before an Inquiry Committee
         when required to do so by the Committee;

    (b) answer truly and fully any question put to the person by a
         member of the Inquiry Committee; or

    (c) produce to an Inquiry Committee any plan, book,
        document or paper required by the Committee to be
        produced by him,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       62

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (9) An Inquiry Committee may meet from time to time and, subject
to the provisions of this Act, may regulate its own procedure and the
manner in which questions are decided before the Inquiry Committee.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (10) References in this Act or any other written law to an Inquiry
Committee constituted under this section include references to an
Investigation Committee constituted under this section before
1 September 2013.

                                                                             [22D

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

Fire Safety Engineers Inquiry Panel

 45.—(1) There is to be a Fire Safety Engineers Inquiry Panel for the
purpose of constituting Inquiry Committees under section 44 to
investigate into any complaint against or information about the
conduct of any fire safety engineer as a peer reviewer or otherwise, or
the discharge of his or her duties as a fire safety engineer or peer
reviewer.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (2) The Fire Safety Engineers Inquiry Panel comprises —

       (a) such number of fire safety engineers who are not members
            of the Force as the Commissioner may determine; and

       (b) such number of members of the Force as the Commissioner
            may determine.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (3) Every member of the Fire Safety Engineers Inquiry Panel is to
be appointed by the Minister for a term of 2 years, and is eligible for
re‑appointment.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (4) The Minister may at any time remove any person from the Fire
Safety Engineers Inquiry Panel and fill any vacancy in its
membership.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
63  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

 (5) Any member of the Fire Safety Engineers Inquiry Panel whose
term of appointment expires in the course of any inquiry by an
Inquiry Committee to which the member has been appointed
continues as a member of that Committee until the Committee’s
written report of the inquiry is submitted to the Commissioner under
section 44(3)(b).

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (6) Each person who, immediately before 1 September 2013, is a
member of the Fire Safety Engineers Discipline Panel appointed
under this section is deemed to have been appointed as a member of
the Fire Safety Engineers Inquiry Panel for a term expiring on the
date when the person’s term would have expired if section 24 of the
Fire Safety (Amendment) Act 2013 had not been enacted.

                                                                             [22E

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

Register of fire safety engineers

 46.—(1) The Commissioner must keep and maintain at the
Commissioner’s office a register of fire safety engineers, in which
must be entered the names of all persons registered as fire safety
engineers, the qualifications by virtue of which they are each so
registered and such other particulars in relation to the person as may
from time to time be determined by the Commissioner.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (2) The name and particulars of a fire safety engineer —

       (a) who has died; or

       (b) who has no address in Singapore at which he or she can be
            found,

must be removed from the register of fire safety engineers.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (3) In addition, once any decision of the Commissioner under
section 43 to cancel or suspend the registration of any fire safety
engineer takes effect —

       (a) the Commissioner must remove the name and particulars
            of the fire safety engineer concerned from the register of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       64

          fire safety engineers and, as soon as it may be practicable,
          notify the fire safety engineer concerned;

(b) the fire safety engineer concerned must, within 7 days of
     being so notified, surrender to the Commissioner the
     certificate of registration issued to him or her; and

       (c) the Commissioner must cancel any certificate of
            registration issued to the fire safety engineer concerned.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (4) While the registration of a fire safety engineer is suspended
under section 43, the person’s name must not appear in the register of
fire safety engineers, but at the end of the period of suspension, the
Commissioner must, within 7 days of that period ending, restore the
person’s name and particulars to the register of fire safety engineers
and re‑issue to him or her a fresh certificate of registration, without
the payment of any fee.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (5) Any fire safety engineer may apply, in the prescribed form and
manner, to the Commissioner to have his or her name removed from
the register of fire safety engineers.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (6) The Commissioner must refuse any application by a fire safety
engineer to remove his or her name from the register of fire safety
engineers if the Commissioner is satisfied that at the time of the
application —

(a) disciplinary action under section 43 is pending against the
     fire safety engineer; or

(b) the conduct of the fire safety engineer (whether as a peer
     reviewer or otherwise) is the subject of any complaint to or
     information received by the Commissioner.
                                                                      [22F

                                                                                                  [7/2004]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
65  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

                             PART 3B

    ALARM MONITORING SERVICES

Interpretation of this Part

47. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

    “alarm monitoring service” means the service consisting of
       monitoring signals from any alarm system installed in or for a
       building for the purpose of fire safety and for transmission to
       the Force;

    “alarm monitoring station” means any building at which an
       alarm monitoring service is carried out;

    “communication link” means the part of an alarm monitoring
       system that transmits a signal from the system to an alarm
       monitoring network;

    “licensing officer” means the Commissioner or such other
       public officer that the Commissioner appoints, by name or
       office, to assist the Commissioner in carrying out the
       Commissioner’s functions and duties under this Part;

    “responsible officer”, in relation to an applicant for a licence or a
       licensee, means —

    (a) where the applicant or licensee is a partnership — a
         partner of the partnership;

    (b) where the applicant or licensee is an unincorporated
         association — a member of the governing body of the
         unincorporated association; and

    (c) where the applicant or licensee is a company or other
        body corporate — a director of the company or an
        officer holding a managerial or similar executive
        position in the body corporate.
                                                                  [22G

                                                                                           [22/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       66

Licence required to carry on business of providing alarm
monitoring services

 48.—(1) A person must not carry on a business of providing alarm
monitoring services at a building to be used as an alarm monitoring
station unless the person is authorised to do so at that building by a
licence under section 50.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (2) A person must not advertise or otherwise hold out that the
person is carrying on a business of providing alarm monitoring
services at a building to be used as an alarm monitoring station unless
the person is authorised to carry on such a business at that building by
a licence under section 50.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (3), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (5) The offence under subsection (3) is a strict liability offence.
                                                                             [22H

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

Application for grant or renewal of licence

 49.—(1) An application for the grant or renewal of a licence must
be —

(a) made to the licensing officer in the form or manner that the
     licensing officer requires; and

(b) accompanied by —

          (i) the particulars, information and documents that the
              licensing officer requires; and

          (ii) the prescribed fee, if any.

                                                                     [22/2019]

 (2) If a person intends to carry on the business of providing alarm
monitoring services at more than one alarm monitoring station, a

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
67                Fire Safety Act 1993                         2020 Ed.

separate application must be made in respect of each alarm
monitoring station.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) The licensing officer may, in order to properly consider an
application under subsection (1), request the applicant to provide,
within a specified time, any additional information.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) The licensing officer may refuse to consider an application
relating to a proposed alarm monitoring service in the following
circumstances:

    (a) the application is incomplete or otherwise not made in
         accordance with this section;

    (b) in the case of an application for the grant of a licence, the
         alarm monitoring system provided or to be provided by the
         applicant cannot be connected, or be converted to be
         connected, to the alarm monitoring network kept by the
         Force;

    (c) in the case of an application to renew a licence, the
        application is submitted less than 2 months before the
        expiry of the licence.
                                                                          [22I

                                                                                                    [22/2019]

Grant of licence

 50.—(1) After considering an application for the grant or renewal
of a licence, the licensing officer may —

    (a) grant the licence to carry on a business of providing alarm
         monitoring services, specifying the alarm monitoring
         station from which the service is or is to be carried out
         (called in this Part the licensed alarm monitoring station);
         or

    (b) refuse the application.

                                                               [22/2019]

(2) A person may be granted more than one licence.

                                                               [22/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       68

 (3) The licensing officer may refuse to grant or renew a licence if
any of the following applies:

(a) the building specified in the application to be used as an
     alarm monitoring station is not suitable to be used as such;

(b) the applicant is not a fit and proper person to hold a licence;

       (c) it is not in the public interest to grant the licence.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) For the purposes of determining whether a person is a fit and
proper person to hold a licence under subsection (3)(b), the licensing
officer may consider such criteria and requirements as may be
prescribed, including criteria and requirements relating to —

(a) any responsible officer of the applicant;

(b) any person having substantial interest in, or control or
     direction over, the business of the applicant; or

       (c) any person having control of or direction over the
            applicant’s operations at the building to be used as an
            alarm monitoring station.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (5) Any person whose application for the grant or renewal of a
licence is refused may, within 14 days after being notified in writing
of the refusal, appeal to the Minister.

                                                                              [22J

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

Licence conditions

 51. In granting a licence, the licensing officer may impose
conditions, which may include conditions —

       (a) relating to the operational and technical requirements for
            the licensed alarm monitoring station; and

       (b) requiring the licensee to establish a communication link
            from the alarm monitoring system used in the licensed
            alarm monitoring station to the alarm monitoring network
            kept by the Force, in the manner specified.
                                                                             [22K

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
69  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

Modifying conditions of licence

 52.—(1) The licensing officer may, in accordance with this section,
modify the conditions of a licence without compensating the licensee
to whom the licence is granted.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (2) Before modifying any conditions of a licence, the licensing
officer must give notice to the licensee concerned —

    (a) stating the modification that the licensing officer proposes
         to make; and

       (b) specifying the time within which the licensee may make
            written representations to the licensing officer with respect
            to the proposed modification.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) The time specified by the licensing officer in the notice given
under subsection (2) must not be less than 14 days after the date of the
notice.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) Despite subsection (3), the licensing officer may specify a time,
being less than 14 days after the date of the notice mentioned in
subsection (2), if the licensing officer is of the opinion that it is in the
public interest for the licence conditions to be modified as soon as
possible.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (5) On receipt of any written representation made in accordance
with this section by the licensee concerned, the licensing officer must
consider that representation and may —

    (a) reject the representation;

    (b) amend the proposed modification in the manner that the
         licensing officer thinks fit having regard to the
         representation; or

      (c) withdraw the proposed modification.                  [22/2019]
(6) Where —

    (a) the licensing officer rejects any written representation
         under subsection (5)(a);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       70

(b) the licensing officer amends any proposed modification to
     the conditions of the licence under subsection (5)(b); or

          (c) no written representation is received by the licensing
              officer within the time specified by the licensing officer, or
              any written representation made by the licensee is
              subsequently withdrawn, and the licensee has not given
              immediate effect to the modification,

the licensing officer must give a direction to the licensee requiring the
licensee (within the time specified in the direction) to give effect to
the modification as specified in the notice given under subsection (2),
or as amended by the licensing officer, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (7) Where the licensing officer has given a direction mentioned in
subsection (6) to a licensee, the licensee may, within 14 days after the
date of the direction, appeal in writing to the Minister against the
direction.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (8) The direction mentioned in subsection (6) takes effect on the
date specified in the direction despite an appeal being made to the
Minister.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (9) In this section, “modification” and “modify”, in relation to the
conditions of a licence, include deleting, or varying and substituting a
condition, and adding a condition.

                                                                             [22L

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

Failure to verify fire, etc., before cancelling request

 53.—(1) Where a request is made to the Commissioner to
extinguish a fire or protect life and property from a fire, or to
contain or mitigate the escape of any petroleum or flammable
material, at any building, the licensee providing alarm monitoring
services for the building must take all reasonable steps to ascertain
that there is no fire or escape of petroleum or flammable material (as
the case may be) at the building before cancelling the request.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
71  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

 (2) Any licensee who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) In this section, “request” includes the transmission, on a
communication link, of a signal from an alarm system to the alarm
monitoring network kept by the Force.

                                                                            [22M

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

Revocation of licence

 54.—(1) The licensing officer may revoke a licence if the licensing
officer is satisfied that —

       (a) the licensee has contravened any condition of the licence;

       (b) the licence had been obtained by fraud or
            misrepresentation;

       (c) a circumstance that the licensing officer becomes aware of
            would have required or permitted the licensing officer to
            refuse to grant or renew the licensee’s licence, had the
            licensing officer been aware of the circumstance
            immediately before the licence was granted or renewed;

       (d) the licensee has ceased to carry on the business of
            providing alarm monitoring services in respect of which
            the licence is granted;

       (e) the licensee has been declared bankrupt or has gone into
            compulsory or voluntary liquidation other than for the
            purpose of amalgamation or reconstruction;

        (f) the licensee is contravening, or has contravened, any
            requirement of this Act;

       (g) the licensee has been convicted of any offence under this
            Act;

       (h) the licensee is no longer a fit and proper person to continue
            to hold the licence; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       72

          (i) it is in the public interest to do so.

                                                                     [22/2019]

 (2) Before revoking the licence, the licensing officer must give
notice to the licensee concerned —

(a) stating that the licensing officer intends to revoke the
     licence; and

       (b) specifying the time within which written representations
            may be made to the licensing officer.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) The time specified by the licensing officer in the notice given
under subsection (2) must not be less than 14 days after the date of the
notice.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) Despite subsection (3), the licensing officer may specify a time,
being less than 14 days after the date of the notice mentioned in
subsection (2), if the licensing officer is of the opinion that it is in the
public interest for the licence to be revoked as soon as possible.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (5) The licensing officer may, after considering any written
representation made by the licensee concerned, revoke the licence
and notify the licensee of the revocation.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (6) The licensing officer must provide the licensee with the grounds
of revocation of the licence, in writing, within 7 days after being so
required by the licensee.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (7) Any person who is aggrieved by the revocation of the person’s
licence may appeal to the Minister —

(a) within 14 days after being notified of the revocation; or

(b) if, within the period mentioned in paragraph (a), the person
     requires the licensing officer to provide the grounds of
     revocation — within 14 days after being provided with the
     grounds of revocation.

                                                                                                 [22/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
73  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

 (8) A decision of the licensing officer to revoke the licence takes
effect despite an appeal against that decision being made to the
Minister.

                                                                             [22N

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

                                    PART 4

                CONTROL OF FIRE SAFETY WORKS

Fire safety works

 55.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the person for whom
any proposed fire safety works are to be commenced or carried out
shall apply in accordance with the regulations made under this Act to
the Commissioner for approval of the plans of the fire safety works.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, every person for whom any
fire safety works (whether as part of any building works or otherwise)
are to start on or after 1 July 2004 must, before making an application
under subsection (1) for approval of the plans of those fire safety
works, appoint —

       (a) where the plans or any part thereof contain any alternative
            solution —

               (i) an appropriate qualified person who is a fire safety
                   engineer to prepare those plans or that part thereof
                   containing the alternative solution, or a fire safety
                   engineer to supervise a qualified person to prepare
                   those plans or that part thereof; and

              (ii) another fire safety engineer as a peer reviewer to
                   review and assess whether the alternative solution
                   therein satisfies the fire performance requirements in
                   the Fire Code; or

       (b) in any other case, an appropriate qualified person to
            prepare the plans of those fire safety works.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       74

(3) The Commissioner may —

(a) approve, subject to such terms and conditions as the
     Commissioner may impose, any one or more of the plans
     submitted to the Commissioner under subsection (1);

(b) disapprove any of the plans which is not in order; or

       (c) in writing direct the applicant to comply, within such
            period as may be specified in the direction, with such
            requirements as the Commissioner may specify for the
            purpose of ensuring compliance with the provisions of this
            Act.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (4) If the person to whom any written direction is given under
subsection (3) fails to comply with the requirements specified in the
direction within the time specified therein, the Commissioner may
reject the plans.

 (5) Where an application is made under subsection (1) regarding
any plans of any fire safety works, the Commissioner may, without
checking the plans, approve those plans if —

(a) in the case of plans mentioned in subsection (2)(a), the
     application and plans are accompanied by —

          (i) a written declaration by the qualified person who
              prepared those plans declaring that the plans
              (excluding the alternative solution) have been
              prepared in accordance with the Fire Code and
              comply with the provisions of this Act;

          (ii) a written declaration by the fire safety engineer who
               prepared or (as the case may be) supervised the
               preparation of the plans or that part thereof
               containing the alternative solution, declaring that
               the alternative solution satisfies the fire performance
               requirements and complies with the provisions of
               this Act; and

          (iii) a certification from the peer reviewer that the
                alternative solution contained in the plans or that
                part thereof satisfies the fire performance

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
75  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

    requirements and complies with the provisions of
    this Act; or

       (b) in the case of plans mentioned in subsection (2)(b), the
            application and plans are accompanied by a written
            declaration by the qualified person who prepared those
            plans declaring that the plans have been prepared in
            accordance with the Fire Code and the provisions of this
            Act.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (6) Despite subsection (5), the Commissioner may, in his or her
discretion, carry out random checks on any plans of fire safety works
at any time before or after approving the plans under that subsection.

 (7) The Commissioner may at any time revoke any approval
granted in respect of any plans of fire safety works —

    (a) under subsection (3)(a), if the Commissioner is satisfied
         that any information given in the application for approval
         or any document submitted to the Commissioner in respect
         of the application for approval is false in a material
         particular; and

       (b) under subsection (5), if the Commissioner is satisfied that
            the written declaration submitted by the qualified person or
            fire safety engineer or the certificate of a peer reviewer
            mentioned in that subsection is false.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (8) The Commissioner must not revoke any approval granted in
respect of any plans of fire safety works unless —

    (a) the Commissioner has given a written notice to the person
         for whom the fire safety works are carried out to comply,
         within such period as may be specified in the notice, with
         such requirements as the Commissioner may specify for
         the purpose of ensuring compliance with the Fire Code,
         and any of the provisions of this Act; and

    (b) the person has failed or refused to comply with the
         requirements specified in the written notice.

                                                                                                     [14/2013]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       76

(9) The requirements mentioned in subsection (8) may include —

(a) the amendment of any of the approved plans of fire safety
     works;

(b) the rectification of the fire safety works; and

          (c) the alteration or demolition of a building or part thereof to
              which the fire safety works relate.

 (10) Any person who fails or refuses to comply with any
requirement specified in the written notice given by the
Commissioner under subsection (8) shall be guilty of an offence.

 (11) The Commissioner must in writing notify the person for whom
the fire safety works are carried out of the Commissioner’s
decision —

(a) to disapprove any plans of fire safety works under
     subsection (3)(b);

(b) to reject any plans of fire safety works under
     subsection (4); or

          (c) to revoke an approval granted in respect of any plans of fire
              safety works under subsection (7),

and must specify a date, not less than 14 days from the date of the
written notification, on which the decision of the Commissioner takes
effect.

 (12) Where a decision of the Commissioner to revoke any approval
granted in respect of any plans of fire safety works has taken effect —

(a) any fire certificate granted under section 35 in respect of
     any building to which the fire safety works relate; and

(b) any fire safety certificate or temporary fire permit issued in
     respect of the fire safety works under section 60,

as the case may be, automatically lapses.

                                                                     [7/2004]

 (13) For the purposes of this section, any plans of any fire safety
works that are prepared in accordance with the solutions issued by the
Commissioner as in compliance with the fire performance

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
77  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

requirements are deemed to satisfy the fire performance
requirements.

                                                                               [23

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

Prohibition of fire safety works without approval of plans

 56.—(1) A person must not carry out, or permit or authorise the
carrying out of, any fire safety works —

       (a) before the Commissioner has approved all the plans of the
            fire safety works under section 55; or

       (b) otherwise than in accordance with the plans approved
            under section 55.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (2) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $200,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing
offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of
a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                               [24

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

Appointment and duties of qualified person

 57.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, every person for
whom any fire safety works are or are to be carried out must
appoint —

       (a) in the case of plans mentioned in section 55(2)(a) —

               (i) the same qualified person who prepared those plans
                   to supervise the carrying out of the fire safety works,
                   including the alternative solution, as required under
                   this section; and

              (ii) the same fire safety engineer who prepared or (as the
                   case may be) supervised the preparation of the plans
                   or that part thereof containing the alternative solution
                   to supervise the carrying out of the fire safety works

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       78

          or part thereof containing the alternative solution as
          required under this section; or

       (b) in the case of plans mentioned in section 55(2)(b), the same
            qualified person who prepared the approved plans of those
            fire safety works to supervise the fire safety works as
            required under this section.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (2) Where any fire safety works involve the installation of a
regulated fire safety product and the qualified person appointed under
subsection (1) is not an appropriate qualified person to supervise the
installation, every person for whom the fire safety works are or are to
be carried out must appoint an appropriate qualified person to
supervise the installation of the regulated fire safety product.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) If any qualified person or fire safety engineer appointed under
subsection (1) or (2) or paragraph (b) becomes unwilling or unable,
whether by reason of the termination of his or her appointment or for
any other reason, to carry out his or her duties under subsection (5) —

(a) the qualified person or fire safety engineer must, within
     14 days of his or her ceasing to carry out his or her duties,
     notify the Commissioner and the person for whom such
     works are or are to be carried out of the fact; and

       (b) the person for whom the fire safety works are or are to be
            carried out must cease or cause to be ceased and must not
            commence or cause to be commenced the carrying out of
            such work until the person has appointed another
            appropriate qualified person or fire safety engineer in
            respect of such works.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 22/2019]

 (4) Where the person for whom any such works are or are to be
carried out appoints an appropriate qualified person or fire safety
engineer under subsection (3)(b), the person must, within 7 days of
the appointment, notify the Commissioner of the appointment.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (5) Every qualified person or fire safety engineer appointed under
this section in respect of any fire safety works must —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
79  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

    (a) take all reasonable steps and exercise due diligence in
         supervising and inspecting the fire safety works to ensure
         that such works are being carried out in accordance with
         the provisions of this Act and subject to section 59, any
         regulations made under this Act, the codes of practice, the
         plans approved in respect thereof by the Commissioner and
         any terms and conditions imposed by the Commissioner;

    (b) notify the Commissioner of any contravention of the
         provisions of this Act or codes of practice in connection
         with the fire safety works; and

       (c) submit to the Commissioner at the prescribed times such
            reports and certificates as may be prescribed in any
            regulations made under this Act.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (6) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with
subsection (1), (2) or (3)(b) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding
$1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

                                                                                                [14/2013; 22/2019]

 (7) Subject to subsection (9), any qualified person or fire safety
engineer who fails to comply with a requirement mentioned in
subsection (5)(a) or (b) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction —

    (a) to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
         term not exceeding 2 years or to both; and

       (b) in respect of a continuing failure to comply with the
            requirement mentioned in subsection (5)(a) or (b) (as the
            case may be), to an additional fine not exceeding $1,000
            for every day or part of a day the qualified person or fire
            safety engineer fails to comply with the requirement.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (8) Subject to subsection (9), any qualified person or fire safety
engineer who fails to comply with a requirement mentioned in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       80

subsection (5)(c) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

(a) to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

       (b) in respect of a continuing failure to comply with the
            requirement mentioned in that subsection, to an additional
            fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day the
            qualified person or fire safety engineer fails to comply with
            the requirement.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (9) Where the failure to comply in respect of which the qualified
person or fire safety engineer is convicted under subsection (7) or (8)
continues after the conviction, the qualified person or fire safety
engineer shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be liable on
conviction of the further offence to a fine not exceeding $2,000 for
every day or part of a day during which the failure to comply
continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (10) It is a defence in any prosecution for a contravention or
non‑compliance with subsection (5)(b) for the person charged to
prove to the satisfaction of the court that the person did not know, nor
could reasonably have discovered, the contravention or
non‑compliance referred to in the charge.

 (11) Any qualified person or fire safety engineer or person for
whom any fire safety works are or are to be carried out (as the case
may be) who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes or fails to
comply with subsection (3)(a) or (4) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [25

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

Supervision of fire safety works

 58.—(1) Except as otherwise provided in this Act, a person must
not commence or carry out any fire safety works except under the
supervision of an appropriate qualified person or fire safety engineer
appointed under section 57(1), (2) or (3)(b).

                                                                                     [7/2004; 14/2013; 22/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
81  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

 (2) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $200,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing
offence, to a further fine not exceeding $2,000 for every day or part of
a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                               [26

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

Modification or waiver of requirements relating to fire safety

 59.—(1) The Commissioner may, on receipt of an application in
relation to any particular fire safety works, modify or waive, subject
to such terms and conditions as the Commissioner may impose, any
of the requirements relating to fire safety in buildings or in relation to
relevant pipelines as may be prescribed in any regulations made
under this Act.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (2) Every such application must —

       (a) be made in writing to the Commissioner by or on behalf of
            the owner of the building or the person for whom the
            relevant pipeline works are being carried out (as the case
            may be) to which the application relates;

       (b) state the nature and extent of and the reasons for the
            proposed modification or waiver of such requirements; and

       (c) be accompanied by such plans and other particulars as may
            be prescribed.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (3) Where an application made under subsection (2) is refused, or is
granted by the Commissioner subject to such terms and conditions as
he may impose, the applicant may, if aggrieved by the decision of the
Commissioner, appeal to the Minister within 28 days of the date of
notification of the decision.

                                                                               [27

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.                 Fire Safety Act 1993                        82

Fire safety certificate

 60.—(1) Any person for whom any fire safety works had been
carried out and completed must apply to the Commissioner and
obtain a fire safety certificate in respect of the completed fire safety
works.

 (2) All applications under subsection (1) must be made to the
Commissioner in the form and manner prescribed in any regulations
made under this Act.

 (3) The Commissioner may, on application by such person in the
prescribed manner, in relation to any building or relevant pipeline, or
part thereof —

(a) issue the fire safety certificate, subject to such conditions
     as the Commissioner thinks fit; or

       (b) issue a temporary fire permit and may in writing direct the
            applicant to comply, within such period as may be
            specified in the direction, with such requirements as the
            Commissioner may specify for the purpose of ensuring
            compliance with the provisions of this Act.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (4) If the person to whom any written direction is given under
subsection (3)(b) fails to comply with the requirements specified in
the direction within the time specified therein, the application is
deemed to be withdrawn.

 (5) Where an application for a fire safety certificate under
subsection (1) is accompanied by a certificate of a registered
inspector certifying that, to the best of the knowledge and belief of
the registered inspector, the completed fire safety works to which the
application relates have been carried out in accordance with the
approved plans of fire safety works, the Fire Code, and the provisions
of this Act, the Commissioner may, without inspecting the completed
fire safety works, issue a fire safety certificate or temporary fire
permit, as the Commissioner considers appropriate, on the basis of
the certificate of the registered inspector.

                                                                                                [14/2013; 22/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
83  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

(6) Any registered inspector who —

    (a) issues a certificate mentioned in subsection (5) that is false
         or misleading in any material particular; and

    (b) does so knowing, or reckless as to whether, the certificate
         is false or misleading in any material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (7) Despite subsection (5), the Commissioner may, in his or her
discretion, carry out random inspections on the completed fire safety
works to which any application under this section relates, at any time
before or after the issuing of a fire safety certificate or temporary fire
permit.

 (8) The Commissioner may at any time revoke any fire safety
certificate or temporary fire permit issued in respect of any completed
fire safety works —

    (a) under subsection (3), if he or she is satisfied that any
         information given in the application for a fire safety
         certificate or any document submitted to the Commissioner
         in respect of the application for the fire safety certificate is
         false in a material particular; and

    (b) under subsection (5), if he or she is satisfied that any
         certificate of the registered inspector mentioned in that
         subsection is false.

 (9) The Commissioner must not revoke a fire safety certificate or
temporary fire permit unless —

    (a) the Commissioner has given a written notice to the person
         for whom the fire safety works have been carried out to
         comply, within such period as may be specified in the
         notice, with such requirements as the Commissioner may
         specify for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the
         Fire Code, and any of the provisions of this Act; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       84

      (b) the person has failed or refused to comply with the
           requirements specified in the written notice.

                                                                                                         [14/2013]

(10) The requirements mentioned in subsection (9) may include —

(a) the amendment of any of the approved plans of fire safety
     works to which the completed fire safety works relate;

(b) the rectification of the completed fire safety works; and

          (c) the alteration or demolition of a building or part thereof to
              which the completed fire safety works relate.

 (11) Any person who fails or refuses to comply with any
requirement specified in the written notice given by the
Commissioner under subsection (9) shall be guilty of an offence.

 (12) The Commissioner must in writing notify the person for whom
the fire safety works are carried out of the Commissioner’s decision
to revoke a fire safety certificate or temporary fire permit, and must
specify a date, not less than 14 days from the date of the written
notification, on which the decision of the Commissioner takes effect.

 (13) Any person who fails to comply with this section or with any
condition imposed by the Commissioner under subsection (3)(a) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                               [29

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

Application for change of use of premises

 61.—(1) Any person who changes the use of any premises must, if
such change of use would cause the existing fire safety measures to
become inadequate, prior to carrying out the change, apply to the
Commissioner for approval to change the use of the premises.

 (2) All applications for permission to change the use of the
premises must be made to the Commissioner in the form and
manner prescribed in any regulations made under this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
85  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

 (3) The Commissioner may, on application in the prescribed
manner, in relation to any premises or part thereof —

    (a) grant permission for the change of use, subject to such
         conditions as the Commissioner may impose; or

    (b) in writing direct the applicant to comply, within such
         period as may be specified in the direction, with such
         requirements as the Commissioner may specify for the
         purpose of ensuring compliance with the provisions of this
         Act and such written directions may also —

    (i) require the applicant to provide additional fire safety
        measures in relation to the building; or

              (ii) provide that the work or alteration must be
                   completed before the expiry of a specified period.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (4) If the person to whom any written direction under
subsection (3)(b) fails to comply with the requirements specified in
the direction within the time specified therein, the application is
deemed to be withdrawn.

 (5) Any person who fails to comply with this section or with any
condition imposed by the Commissioner under subsection (3)(a) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $200,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during which
the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                [14/2013; 22/2019]

 (6) Nothing in this section is to be taken in any way to derogate
from the provisions of the Planning Act 1998 and any relevant rules
made under that Act relating to change of use of premises.

                                                                               [30

Order for demolition, removal, etc., of unauthorised fire safety
works

 62.—(1) Where, in the opinion of the Commissioner, any fire safety
works are being carried out or have been carried out in contravention
of the Fire Code, or any of the provisions of this Act (called in this

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       86

section the unauthorised fire safety works), the Commissioner may
by written order require —

(a) the cessation of the unauthorised fire safety works until the
     order is withdrawn;

(b) such work or alteration to be carried out to the
     unauthorised fire safety works or the building or part
     thereof to which the unauthorised fire safety works relate
     as may be necessary to cause the unauthorised fire safety
     works to comply with the Fire Code, and any of the
     provisions of this Act; or

       (c) the demolition of the building or relevant pipeline, or part
            thereof to which the unauthorised fire safety works relate.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (2) An order made under subsection (1) may specify all or any of
the following:

(a) the manner in which the works, alteration or demolition
     mentioned in subsection (1) is to be carried out;

(b) the time within which the works, alteration or demolition
     must commence;

          (c) the time within which the works, alteration or demolition
              must be completed.

(3) An order made under subsection (1) shall be served —

(a) where a temporary fire permit has been granted in respect
     of a building under section 60, on the owner of the building
     or the occupier of that part of the building affected by the
     order, as the case may be;

(b) where fire safety works are being carried out in relation to a
     building, on the person for whom the fire safety works are
     carried out or the qualified person supervising the fire
     safety works;

          (c) where a temporary fire permit has been granted in respect
              of a relevant pipeline under section 60, on the pipeline
              owner or the person for whom the relevant pipeline works
              are carried out; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
87  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

    (d) where fire safety works are being carried out in relation to a
         relevant pipeline or part thereof, on the person for whom
         the fire safety works are carried out or the qualified person
         supervising the fire safety works,

and must specify a date, not less than 14 days from the date of the
order, on which the order takes effect.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (4) If an order made under subsection (1) is not complied with and
no appeal under section 64 has been made to the Minister in respect of
the order before the order takes effect, the Commissioner may —

    (a) demolish, remove or alter, or cause to be demolished,
         removed or altered, the building, the relevant pipeline or
         the unauthorised fire safety works or to take such other
         steps as may appear to the Commissioner to be necessary,
         including ordering the closure of the building or part
         thereof or cessation of use of the relevant pipeline; and

       (b) recover all expenses reasonably incurred by the
            Commissioner in the exercise of the Commissioner’s
            powers under this section from the person in default.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (5) Without prejudice to the right of the Commissioner to exercise
his or her powers under subsection (4), if any person on whom an
order is served under subsection (3) fails to comply with the order, the
person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing
offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of
a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (6) The Commissioner may seize any material resulting from the
carrying out of any work under subsection (4).

 (7) Any material seized by the Commissioner under this section
may be confiscated by the Commissioner and may be disposed of in
such manner as the Commissioner thinks fit, and the proceeds (if any)
of such disposal must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                             [30A

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.       Fire Safety Act 1993                                  88

Closure order

 63.—(1) Where the Commissioner makes an order under
section 62(4)(a) requiring the closure of any building or cessation
of use of any relevant pipeline, or part thereof, the order (called in this
section a closure order) must be served —

(a) where the closure order relates to the building — on the
     owner of the building;

(b) where the closure order relates to a part of the building —
     on the occupier of that part of the building; or

       (c) where the closure order relates to a relevant pipeline — on
            the pipeline owner.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (2) A closure order must specify a date, not less than 14 days after
the date of the closure order, on which the closure order takes effect,
and may require the person served —

(a) where the order relates to a building or a part of the
     building, to cease to inhabit or use the building or that part
     thereof and to remove all goods, furniture and effects from
     the building or that part thereof before the closure order
     takes effect; or

       (b) where the order relates to a relevant pipeline, to cease using
            the pipeline or allowing it to be used.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (3) Subject to subsection (5), where a closure order is in force in
respect of a building or part thereof (as the case may be), a person
other than a member of the Force in the course of his or her duty must
not enter, be in or use the building or that part thereof to which the
closure order relates at any time.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (4) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with
subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
89  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (5) Where a closure order is in force in respect of a building or part
thereof (as the case may be), the Commissioner may, if he or she
thinks fit and subject to such conditions as he or she may impose, by
written notice permit any person to enter, be in or use the building or
that part thereof to which the closure order relates.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (6) Any permission granted under subsection (5) may be cancelled
by the Commissioner at any time and for any reason.

 (7) A closure order remains in force in respect of a building or
relevant pipeline, or the part thereof (as the case may be) until the
Commissioner has served a notice of expiry of the closure order —

    (a) where the closure order relates to the building — on the
         owner of the building;

    (b) where the closure order relates to a part of the building —
         on the occupier of that part of the building; or

       (c) where the closure order relates to a relevant pipeline — on
            the pipeline owner.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (8) A notice of expiry of a closure order must specify the building
or relevant pipeline, or the part thereof, to which it relates and the date
upon which the closure order expires.

                                                                             [30B

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

Appeals to Minister

 64. Any person aggrieved by —

       (a) a decision of the Commissioner to disapprove any plans of
            fire safety works under section 55(3)(b);

       (b) a decision of the Commissioner to reject any plans of fire
            safety works under section 55(4);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       90

          (c) a decision of the Commissioner to revoke any approval
              granted in respect of any plans of fire safety works under
              section 55(7);

(d) a decision of the Commissioner to revoke any fire safety
     certificate or temporary fire permit under section 60(8);

          (e) an order made by the Commissioner under section 62(1);
              or

          (f) a closure order made by the Commissioner under
              section 62(4)(a),

may, before the decision or order (as the case may be) takes effect,
appeal in writing to the Minister.

                                                                             [30C

Application of this Part to Government buildings, etc.

 65.—(1) This Part applies to fire safety works starting on or after
15 April 2004 and which are carried out by or on behalf of the
Government in any building wholly or partly owned or occupied by
the Government, but nothing in this Act renders the Government to
prosecution for an offence.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (2) To avoid doubt, no person is immune from prosecution for any
offence under this Part by reason that the person is a contractor
engaged to provide services to the Government, or is acting in any
other similar capacity for, or on behalf of, the Government.

                                                                             [30D

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

                                    PART 5
              REGULATED FIRE SAFETY PRODUCTS
Interpretation of this Part
 66. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “accredited certification body” means a person accredited under
         the Singapore Accreditation Council’s Certification Body

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
91  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

    Accreditation Scheme administered by the Enterprise
    Singapore Board;

    “accredited laboratory” means a person providing laboratory
       testing services that is —

    (a) accredited under the Singapore Accreditation
         Council’s Laboratory Accreditation Scheme
         administered by the Enterprise Singapore Board;

    (b) recognised under a bilateral mutual recognition
         agreement or arrangement between Singapore and
         any other country; or

    (c) recognised under a multilateral mutual recognition
        agreement or arrangement between Singapore and 2
        or more other countries;

    “applicable standard”, in relation to a regulated fire safety
       product, means the standard specified in the Fire Code for the
       regulated fire safety product;

    “certificate of conformity”, in relation to a regulated fire safety
       product, means a certificate issued by an accredited
       certification body as to the compliance of the regulated fire
       safety product with the applicable standard for the regulated
       fire safety product;

    “compliant fire safety product” means any regulated fire safety
       product —

    (a) that is tested by an accredited laboratory for
         compliance with the applicable standard for the
         regulated fire safety product;

    (b) that complies with the applicable standard for the
         regulated fire safety product;

    (c) in respect of which there is a valid certificate of
        conformity; and

    (d) that is not prescribed under section 74(3) as a
         non‑compliant fire safety product;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       92

“Enterprise Singapore Board” means the Enterprise Singapore
   Board established by section 3 of the Enterprise Singapore
   Board Act 2018;

“foreign person” means any person who is not a Singapore
   person;

“non-compliant fire safety product” means any regulated fire
   safety product that is not a compliant fire safety product;

“offer to supply”, in relation to any regulated fire safety product,
   includes an attempt to supply or exposure for supply;

“Singapore person” means any person who is —

          (a) a citizen of Singapore;

          (b) a body corporate or corporation incorporated or
               constituted under the law of Singapore; or

          (c) a person domiciled in Singapore;

“supply”, in relation to any regulated fire safety product,
   includes —

          (a) the supply of the regulated fire safety product by way
               of sale (including by way of barter or exchange),
               lease, loan, hire or hire‑purchase;

          (b) causing or allowing the supply of the regulated fire
               safety product;

          (c) the supply of the regulated fire safety product in
              connection with any agreement; and

          (d) receiving, sending or delivering the regulated fire
               safety product for supply;

“valid certificate of conformity” means a certificate of
   conformity that —

          (a) is issued —

          (i) to a Singapore person; or

          (ii) to a foreign person who has, at the time of the
               issue, appointed a local representative who is a
               Singapore person; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
93  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

    (b) is not expired, terminated or otherwise suspended or
         cancelled by an accredited certification body (under
         this Act or otherwise).
                                                                     [31

                                                                                           [22/2019]

False test reports for regulated fire safety products

 67.—(1) Any accredited laboratory that issues a false test report
knowing that it is false shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (2) Any accredited laboratory that issues a false test report reckless
or negligent as to whether it is false shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) If a person is guilty of an offence under subsection (2) with
respect to a false test report for a regulated fire safety product and —

       (a) in reliance on the false test report, an accredited
            certification body —

               (i) issues a certificate of conformity for the regulated
                   fire safety product; or

              (ii) determines that the requirements of a
                   post‑certification test mentioned in section 69(3)(b)
                   are satisfied in respect of the regulated fire safety
                   product;

       (b) a fire occurs in a building in which that regulated fire safety
            product is installed;

       (c) the regulated fire safety product does not, during the fire,
            function or perform in a manner that complies with the
            applicable standard for the regulated fire safety product;
            and

       (d) damage, death or injury attributable to the fire occurs,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       94

then the person shall, instead of the punishment prescribed in
subsection (2), be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) However, subsection (3) does not apply if it is proved, on a
balance of probabilities, that the failure of the regulated fire safety
product to function or perform did not cause or worsen any damage,
death or injury attributable to the fire.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (5) In this section, “false test report”, in relation to a regulated fire
safety product, means a test report that —

(a) states the result of a test of compliance with an applicable
     standard conducted on the regulated fire safety product;
     and

(b) is false or misleading in any material particular.
                                                                       [32

                                                                                                 [22/2019]

Giving false information to accredited certification body

 68.—(1) Any person who gives false information to an accredited
certification body for the purposes of obtaining a certificate of
conformity for a regulated fire safety product knowing that the
information is false shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (2) Any person who gives false information to an accredited
certification body for the purposes of obtaining a certificate of
conformity for a regulated fire safety product, reckless or negligent as
to whether the information is false, shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) If a person is guilty of an offence under subsection (2) with
respect to a certificate of conformity for a regulated fire safety
product and —

       (a) a fire occurs in a building in which that regulated fire safety
            product is installed;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
95  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

    (b) the regulated fire safety product does not, during the fire,
         function or perform in a manner that complies with the
         applicable standard for the regulated fire safety product;
         and

    (c) damage, death or injury attributable to the fire occurs,

then the person shall, instead of the punishment prescribed in
subsection (2), be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) However, subsection (3) does not apply if it is proved, on a
balance of probabilities, that the failure of the regulated fire safety
product to function or perform did not cause or worsen any damage,
death or injury attributable to the fire.

                                                                             [32A

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

Certification of regulated fire safety products

 69.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person is not an accredited certification body;

       (b) the person certifies, or holds out or advertises in any way
            that the person is willing to certify, that any regulated fire
            safety product complies with the applicable standard for
            the regulated fire safety product; and

       (c) the person —

               (i) knows that it is not an accredited certification body;
                   or

              (ii) is reckless or negligent as to whether it is an
                   accredited certification body.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (2) An accredited certification body commits an offence if the
accredited certification body issues a certificate of conformity for a
regulated fire safety product that does not comply with the applicable
standard for the regulated fire safety product if —

       (a) the accredited certification body knows that the regulated
            fire safety product does not so comply; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       96

       (b) the accredited certification body is reckless or negligent as
            to whether the regulated fire safety product so complies.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) An accredited certification body that issues a certificate of
conformity for a regulated fire safety product must cancel the
certificate of conformity for the purposes of this Act —

(a) as soon as practicable after the accredited certification
     body knows or has reasonable cause to believe (whether by
     a test or analysis conducted under section 72(1) or
     otherwise) that the regulated fire safety product does not
     comply with the applicable standard for the regulated fire
     safety product; or

       (b) where the Fire Code requires any post-certification test to
            be conducted for the regulated fire safety product within a
            specified period after the issue of the certificate of
            conformity — as soon as practicable after the accredited
            certification body knows or has reasonable cause to believe
            that the post-certification test is not conducted within the
            specified period.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) Any person who is guilty of an offence under
subsection (1)(c)(i) or (2)(a) —

(a) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
     $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
     2 years or to both; and

(b) in the case of a continuing contravention of
     subsection (1)(c)(i) —

          (i) shall be liable on conviction to an additional fine not
              exceeding $1,000 for each day or part of a day the
              contravention continues; and

          (ii) if the contravention continues after the conviction,
               shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be liable
               on conviction of this further offence to a fine not
               exceeding $2,000 for every day or part of a day

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
97  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

                   during which the contravention continues after
                   conviction.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (5) Any person who is guilty of an offence under
subsection (1)(c)(ii) or (2)(b) —

    (a) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
         $50,000; and

    (b) in the case of a continuing contravention of
         subsection (1)(c)(ii) —

    (i) shall be liable on conviction to an additional fine not
        exceeding $1,000 for each day or part of a day the
        contravention continues; and

              (ii) if the contravention continues after the conviction,
                   shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be liable
                   on conviction of this further offence to a fine not
                   exceeding $2,000 for every day or part of a day
                   during which the contravention continues after
                   conviction.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (6) If a person is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)(c)(ii) or
(2)(b) and —

    (a) a fire occurs in a building in which that regulated fire safety
         product is installed;

    (b) the regulated fire safety product does not, during the fire,
         function or perform in a manner that complies with the
         applicable standard for the regulated fire safety product;
         and

    (c) damage, death or injury attributable to the fire occurs,

then the person shall, instead of the punishment prescribed in
subsection (5)(a), be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (7) However, subsection (6) does not apply if it is proved, on a
balance of probabilities, that the failure of the regulated fire safety

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       98

product to function or perform did not cause or worsen any damage,
death or injury attributable to the fire.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (8) Any accredited certification body that contravenes
subsection (3)(a) or (b) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to —

(a) a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 2 years or to both; and

(b) in the case of a continuing contravention of
     subsection (3)(a) or (b) (as the case may be), to an
     additional fine not exceeding $1,000 for each day or part of
     a day the contravention continues,

and if the contravention continues after the conviction, the person
shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be liable on conviction of
this further offence to a fine not exceeding $2,000 for every day or
part of a day during which the contravention continues after
conviction.

                                                                             [32B

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

Supply of regulated fire safety products

 70.—(1) Any person (whether in Singapore or not) who —

       (a) supplies or offers to supply to a person in Singapore any
            non‑compliant fire safety product as a compliant fire safety
            product or for use as a regulated fire safety product; or

       (b) in the course of such supply or offer, represents that the
            non‑compliant fire safety product is a compliant fire safety
            product or is fit for use as a regulated fire safety product,

knowing that the non‑compliant fire safety product is a
non‑compliant fire safety product, shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction —

       (c) to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 2 years or to both; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
99  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

    (d) in the case of a continuing contravention, to an additional
         fine not exceeding $1,000 for each day or part of a day the
         contravention continues,

and if the contravention continues after the conviction, the person
shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be liable on conviction of
this further offence to a fine not exceeding $2,000 for every day or
part of a day during which the contravention continues after
conviction.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (2) Any person (whether in Singapore or not) who —

    (a) supplies or offers to supply to a person in Singapore any
         non‑compliant fire safety product as a compliant fire safety
         product or for use as a regulated fire safety product; or

    (b) in the course of such supply or offer, represents that the
         non‑compliant fire safety product is a compliant fire safety
         product or is fit for use as a regulated fire safety product,

reckless or negligent as to whether the non-compliant fire safety
product is a non‑compliant fire safety product, shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    (c) to a fine not exceeding $50,000; and

    (d) in the case of a continuing contravention, to an additional
         fine not exceeding $1,000 for each day or part of a day the
         contravention continues,

and if the contravention continues after the conviction, the person
shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be liable on conviction of
this further offence to a fine not exceeding $2,000 for every day or
part of a day during which the contravention continues after
conviction.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) If a person is guilty of an offence under subsection (2) and —

    (a) a fire occurs in a building in which that non‑compliant fire
         safety product is installed;

    (b) the non-compliant fire safety product does not, during the
         fire, function or perform in a manner that complies with the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       100

          applicable standard for the regulated fire safety product;
          and

          (c) damage, death or injury attributable to the fire occurs,

then the person shall, instead of the punishment prescribed in
subsection (2)(c), be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) However, subsection (3) does not apply if it is proved, on a
balance of probabilities, that the failure of the non‑compliant fire
safety product to function or perform did not cause or worsen any
damage, death or injury attributable to the fire.

                                                                             [32C

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

Installation of non‑compliant fire safety products

 71.—(1) Any relevant person who installs, or causes to be installed,
in or on the building —

       (a) any non-compliant fire safety product, knowing that it is a
            non‑compliant fire safety product; or

       (b) any regulated fire safety product, knowing that the manner
            in which it is installed adversely affects fire safety in the
            building,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (2) Any relevant person who installs, or causes to be installed, in or
on the building any non-compliant fire safety product, reckless or
negligent as to whether it is a non‑compliant fire safety product shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) Any relevant person who installs, or causes to be installed, in or
on the building any regulated fire safety product in a manner that
adversely affects fire safety in the building, reckless or negligent as to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
101  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

whether the manner in which the regulated fire safety product is
installed adversely affects fire safety in the building, shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) If a relevant person is guilty of an offence under subsection (2)
and —

     (a) a fire occurs in a building in which that non‑compliant fire
          safety product is installed;

     (b) the non-compliant fire safety product does not, during the
          fire, function or perform in a manner that complies with the
          applicable standard for the regulated fire safety product;
          and

     (c) damage, death or injury attributable to the fire occurs,

then the person shall, instead of the punishment prescribed in
subsection (2), be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (5) If a relevant person is guilty of an offence under subsection (3)
and —

     (a) a fire occurs in a building in which that regulated fire safety
          product is installed; and

     (b) damage, death or injury attributable to the fire occurs,

then the person shall, instead of the punishment prescribed in
subsection (3), be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (6) However, subsection (4) or (5) does not apply if it is proved, on
a balance of probabilities, that the failure of the non‑compliant fire
safety product to function or perform or the manner in which the
regulated fire safety product was installed (as the case may be) did not
cause or worsen any damage, death or injury attributable to the fire.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (7) It is a defence to a prosecution for an offence under
subsection (2) if it is proved, on a balance of probabilities, that the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       102

relevant person had taken all reasonable steps to ensure that the
regulated fire safety product so installed was a compliant fire safety
product at the time the regulated fire safety product was delivered to
the relevant person.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (8) It is a defence to a prosecution for an offence under
subsection (3) if the relevant person proves, on a balance of
probabilities, that the relevant person had taken all reasonable steps
to ensure that the regulated fire safety product was installed in
accordance with the Fire Code.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (9) Subsections (1)(a) and (2) do not apply in relation to a relevant
person if the regulated fire safety product in question is a
non‑compliant fire safety product only by reason that the certificate
of conformity for the regulated fire safety product expires or is
suspended or terminated after the regulated fire safety product is
delivered to the relevant person.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (10) In this section —

“builder” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Building
   Control Act 1989;

“relevant person”, in relation to a building, means the owner or
   builder of the building.

                                                                       [32D

                                                                     [22/2019]

Commissioner may require testing of regulated fire safety
product

 72.—(1) The Commissioner may, by written notice to any of the
following persons, require the person to submit a regulated fire safety
product or samples of the regulated fire safety product to an
accredited laboratory for the purpose of testing or analysis, within
the time specified in the notice:

       (a) an accredited certification body that has issued a certificate
            of conformity for the regulated fire safety product;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
103  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

     (b) a person carrying on a trade or business that consists of or
          includes the supply of the regulated fire safety product
          (called in this section the supplier);

       (c) a person to whom a certificate of conformity for the
            regulated fire safety product is issued (called in this section
            the certificate holder).

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (2) Where the accredited certification body, the supplier or the
certificate holder does not have possession, charge or control of the
regulated fire safety product specified in the notice, any person who
has such possession, charge or control must render all necessary and
reasonable assistance to enable the accredited certification body, the
supplier or the holder (as the case may be) to comply with the notice.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) Any accredited certification body, supplier or certificate holder
who, without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to comply with any
requirement of the Commissioner under subsection (1) shall be guilty
of an offence.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [33

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

Commissioner may give directions relating to regulated fire
safety products

 73.—(1) The Commissioner may give one or more of the directions
in subsection (2) to any person with possession, charge or control of a
regulated fire safety product or who supplied a regulated fire safety
product, if the Commissioner has reasonable grounds to believe
that —

       (a) the direction is necessary for fire safety; and

       (b) the regulated fire safety product —

               (i) is a non-compliant fire safety product; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       104

            (ii) was installed in a manner that adversely affects fire
                  safety in a building.

                                                                                                         [22/2019]

(2) The directions are —

(a) to recall a non‑compliant fire safety product;

(b) to cease supplying a non‑compliant fire safety product;

          (c) to remove a regulated fire safety product from a building;

(d) to dispose of a non‑compliant fire safety product recalled
     under paragraph (a) in any manner required by the
     Commissioner; and

       (e) to rectify any contravention of the Fire Code in the
            installation of a regulated fire safety product.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) In relation to a direction mentioned in subsection (2)(a), (c), (d)
or (e), the Commissioner —

(a) may specify, in the direction, the manner in which the
     recall, removal, disposal or rectification (as the case may
     be) is to be conducted; and

       (b) must specify, in the direction, the period within which the
            recall, removal, disposal or rectification (as the case may
            be) is to be completed.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) A person to whom a direction mentioned in subsection (2)(a),
(c), (d) or (e) has been given must give written notice to the
Commissioner of the completion of the recall, removal, disposal or
rectification (as the case may be) as soon as practicable after that
completion.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (5) Subject to subsection (6), any person who, without reasonable
excuse, refuses or fails to comply with the Commissioner’s direction
under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction —

(a) to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
105  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

       (b) to an additional fine not exceeding $1,000 for each day or
            part of a day the person fails to comply with the direction
            after the expiry of the period, or the time, specified in the
            direction.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (6) If the failure to comply in respect of which the person is
convicted under subsection (1) continues after the conviction, the
person shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be liable on
conviction of this further offence to a fine not exceeding $2,000 for
every day or part of a day during which the failure to comply
continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (7) Any person who is aggrieved by any direction of the
Commissioner under subsection (1) may, within 14 days after
being notified of the direction, appeal to the Minister.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (8) A direction of the Commissioner under subsection (1) takes
effect despite an appeal against that decision being made to the
Minister.

                                                                             [33A

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

Commissioner may give directions in relation to certificates of
conformity

 74.—(1) The Commissioner may, by written notice to the
accredited certification body that issued a certificate of conformity
for a regulated fire safety product, direct the accredited certification
body to cancel the certificate, within the time specified in the written
notice if —

       (a) the accredited certification body contravenes section 69(2)
            or (3); or

       (b) the person to whom the certificate of conformity is issued
            refuses or fails to comply with a requirement under
            section 72(1) in respect of the regulated fire safety
            product or a sample of the regulated fire safety product.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       106

 (2) The Commissioner may, by written notice to an accredited
certification body, direct the accredited certification body not to issue
any certificate of conformity to a person for the period specified in the
written notice if the Commissioner has reason to believe that the
person has contravened section 70(1) or (2).

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) The Minister may prescribe that a regulated fire safety product
is a non‑compliant fire safety product if the accredited certification
body that issued the certificate of conformity in respect of the
regulated fire safety product refuses or fails to comply with a
direction under subsection (1) or (2) in respect of that certificate.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) The Commissioner must, before making the direction under
subsection (1)(b), give the person to whom the certificate of
conformity is issued —

(a) written notice of the Commissioner’s intention to make the
     direction; and

       (b) an opportunity to submit reasons, within 14 days after the
            notice is given, as to why the direction should not be made.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (5) The Commissioner must, before making the direction under
subsection (2), give the person in respect of which the direction
applies —

(a) written notice of the Commissioner’s intention to make the
     direction; and

       (b) an opportunity to submit reasons, within 14 days after the
            notice is given, as to why the direction should not be made.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (6) Despite subsections (4) and (5), the Commissioner may specify
a time, being less than 14 days after the date of the written notice
mentioned in subsection (4) or (5) (as the case may be) if the
Commissioner is of the opinion that it is in the public interest for the
direction to be made as soon as possible.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
107  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

 (7) The Commissioner may, at any time, cancel a direction given
under subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (8) Any accredited certification body that, without reasonable
excuse, refuses or fails to comply with the Commissioner’s direction
under subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction —

     (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
          term not exceeding 6 months or to both; and

       (b) in the case of a continuing refusal or failure to comply, to
            an additional fine not exceeding $1,000 for each day or part
            of a day the refusal or failure continues.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (9) Any person who is aggrieved by any direction of the
Commissioner under subsection (1) or (2) may, within 14 days
after being notified of the direction, appeal to the Minister.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (10) A direction of the Commissioner under subsection (1) or (2)
takes effect despite an appeal against that decision being made to the
Minister.

                                                                             [33B

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

Power to enter premises to carry out direction upon notice or
under warrant

 75.—(1) If a person to whom a direction mentioned in section 73(1)
is given refuses or fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply with
the direction, the Commissioner —

       (a) may authorise any member (called in this section an
            authorised member) to carry out the direction; and

       (b) may recover the costs and expenses reasonably incurred in
            carrying out the direction as a debt due to the Government
            from that person.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (2) An authorised member may enter any premises at any
reasonable time to carry out the direction mentioned in

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.    Fire Safety Act 1993                                     108

section 73(1) after giving at least 24 hours’ notice of the intention to
do so to the owner or occupier of the premises.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) Before entering the premises under subsection (2), an
authorised member must produce, if so required —

(a) the authorised member’s original identity card or any
     identification card that the Commissioner directs to be
     carried by the authorised member as proof of the
     authorised member’s identity; and

       (b) a duly authenticated document showing the authorised
            member’s authority.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) A Magistrate may by warrant authorise a member to enter any
premises, with such force as may be necessary, if the Magistrate is
satisfied, on sworn information in writing —

(a) that the member needs to enter into any premises to carry
     out a direction mentioned in section 73(1); and

(b) that —

          (i) entry into the premises has been refused, or such
              refusal is likely; or

              (ii) the premises are unoccupied or the owner or occupier
                   is temporarily absent.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (5) The warrant continues in force until the purpose for which the
entry is necessary has been satisfied.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (6) If the owner or occupier is present when an authorised member
seeks to execute the warrant, the authorised member must —

(a) identify himself or herself to the owner or occupier;

(b) show the owner or occupier the authorised member’s
     identity card or identification card and the duly
     authenticated document mentioned in subsection (3);

          (c) show the owner or occupier the warrant; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
109  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

       (d) if required, give the owner or occupier a copy of the
            warrant.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (7) If the owner or occupier is not present when an authorised
member seeks to execute the warrant, but some other person who
appears to be in charge of the premises is present, then subsection (6)
applies to that other person as if that other person were the owner or
occupier.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (8) An authorised member entering the premises under a warrant
issued under subsection (4) may do all or any of the following:

     (a) break open any outer or inner door or window leading to
          the premises;

     (b) enter any part of the premises with such force as may be
          necessary;

     (c) remove by force any obstruction to the entry.

                                                                [22/2019]

 (9) An authorised member entering the premises under
subsection (2), or under a warrant issued under subsection (4), may
do any of the following:

     (a) take with him or her such other persons as may be
          necessary;

       (b) remove or demolish any fixtures or fittings in the premises
            if such removal or demolition is necessary for carrying out
            the direction under section 73(1).

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (10) If the premises are unoccupied at the time of entry, the
authorised member must leave the premises as effectually secured
against trespassers as the authorised member found the premises.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (11) Subject to subsection (10), the Commissioner is not liable to
compensate the owner or occupier for any loss (including
reinstatement costs) incurred by the owner or occupier, or for any

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       110

damage caused to the premises, as a result of anything done with
reasonable care and in good faith under subsection (9)(b).

                                                                             [33C

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

Power to enter premises to carry out direction without notice
or warrant

 76.—(1) If —

       (a) a person to whom a direction mentioned in section 73(1) is
            given refuses or fails to comply with the direction; and

       (b) the Commissioner has reasonable grounds to believe in
            respect of any premises that the non‑compliant fire safety
            product is posing an imminent danger affecting public
            safety,

the Commissioner —

       (c) may authorise any member (called in this section an
            authorised member) to enter the premises without warrant
            to carry out the direction; and

       (d) may recover the costs and expenses reasonably incurred in
            carrying out the direction as a debt due to the Government
            from that person.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (2) If the owner or occupier of the premises is present when an
authorised member seeks to enter the premises, the authorised
member must show the owner or occupier the identity card or
identification card and the duly authenticated document mentioned in
section 75(3).

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) If the owner or occupier is not present when entry under
subsection (2) is sought, but some other person who appears to be in
charge of the premises is present, then subsection (2) applies to that
other person as if that other person were the owner or occupier.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) An authorised member entering the premises under this section
may do all or any of the following:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
111  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

     (a) take with him or her such other persons as may be
          necessary;

     (b) break open any outer or inner door or window leading to
          the premises;

     (c) forcibly enter the premises and every part of the premises;

     (d) remove by force any obstruction to the entry;

       (e) remove or demolish any fixtures or fittings in the premises
            if such removal or demolition is necessary for carrying out
            the direction mentioned in section 73(1).

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (5) If the premises are unoccupied at the time of entry, the
authorised member must leave the premises as effectually secured
against trespassers as the authorised member found the premises.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (6) Subject to subsection (5), the Commissioner is not liable to
compensate the owner or occupier for any loss (including
reinstatement costs) incurred by the owner or occupier, or for any
damage caused to the premises, as a result of anything done with
reasonable care and in good faith under subsection (4)(e).

                                                                             [33D

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

                                    PART 6

                  CONTROL OF PETROLEUM AND
                       FLAMMABLE MATERIALS

Interpretation of this Part

 77.—(1) In this Part and in section 113, unless the context
otherwise requires —

      “dispensing” means transferring any class of petroleum or any
         flammable material from one container to any other container
         or containers for the purpose of distribution, through hose,
         pipe or by any other means (but not including a licensed
         pipeline) and includes discharging into a motor vehicle or
         from the tank of a road tanker;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       112

“import” means to take or cause to be taken into Singapore by
   land, sea or air from any place outside Singapore, but does
   not include the bringing into Singapore by sea or air of any
   substance or product which it is proved to be intended to be
   taken out of Singapore on the same vessel or aircraft on
   which the substance or product was brought into Singapore
   without any landing or transhipment within Singapore;

“licensed pipeline” means any relevant pipeline licensed for the
   conveyance of any class of petroleum or any flammable
   material under section 82;

“licensed premises” means any premises licensed for the storage
   or keeping of any class of petroleum or any flammable
   material under section 78;

“liquefied petroleum gas” means any material having a vapour
   pressure not exceeding that allowed for commercial propane
   and composed predominantly of the following hydrocarbons,
   either by themselves or as mixtures, that is to say, propane,
   propylene, butane (normal butane or iso-butane) and
   butylenes;

“pipeline licence” means a licence for the conveyance of any
   class of petroleum or any flammable material through any
   relevant pipeline specified in the licence;

“place” includes houses, yards and open spaces appurtenant
   thereto, buildings and footways and any underground space;

“road tanker” means a goods vehicle as defined in the Road
   Traffic Act 1961 which has a tank that is structurally attached
   or is an integral part of the frame of the vehicle;

“storage licence” means a licence to store or keep any class of
   petroleum or any flammable material at any premises
   specified in the licence;

“transport”, in relation to any class of petroleum or any
   flammable material, means the carriage of such petroleum
   or flammable material by any vehicle on land from one place
   in Singapore to another place, whether within or outside
   Singapore, and includes —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
113  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

     (a) the packing, loading and unloading of the goods, and
          the transfer of the goods to or from a vehicle;

     (b) the marking of packages and unit loads containing
          any class of petroleum or any flammable material for
          transport, and placarding containers and vehicles in
          which such petroleum or flammable material are
          transported; and

              (c) any other matters incidental to their transport.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (2) For the purposes of this Part and section 113, a person may be
regarded as transporting any class of petroleum or any flammable
material —

     (a) by the person marking packages and unit loads containing
          such petroleum or flammable material for transport, and
          placarding containers and any vehicles in which such
          petroleum or flammable material are transported;

     (b) by the person consigning such petroleum or flammable
          material for transport;

     (c) by the person loading such petroleum or flammable
         material into or onto a vehicle, or into a tank container
         or container that is to be put on a vehicle, for transport or
         unloading any class of petroleum or any flammable
         material that has been transported;

     (d) by the person marshalling vehicles and separating such
          petroleum or flammable material;

     (e) by the person undertaking, or being responsible for,
         otherwise than as an employee or subcontractor, the
         transport of such petroleum or flammable material;

     (f) by the person providing emergency information in relation
         to the transport of such petroleum or flammable material;

     (g) by the person driving a vehicle carrying such petroleum or
          flammable material;

     (h) by being the consignee of such petroleum or flammable
          material that are to be transported; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       114

          (i) by being involved as a director, secretary or manager of a
              body corporate, or other person who takes part in the
              management of a body corporate, that takes part in an
              activity referred to above.
                                                                                 [34

                                                                                                           [7/2004]

Storage of petroleum and flammable materials

 78. A person must not store or keep, or cause to be stored or kept,
any class of petroleum or any flammable material except —

       (a) in or on licensed premises;

       (b) in such quantities and in such manner and in accordance
            with requirements prescribed in relation to such petroleum
            or flammable material; and

       (c) under the authority of and in accordance with the
            provisions of a storage licence from the Commissioner
            and every condition specified therein.
                                                                               [35

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

Import of petroleum and flammable materials

 79.—(1) A person must not import any class of petroleum or any
flammable material if —

(a) the regulations require the person importing such
     petroleum or flammable material to hold a licence from
     the Commissioner to import such petroleum or flammable
     material; and

(b) the person does not hold such a valid licence.

                                                                     [7/2004]

 (2) A person must not import any class of petroleum or any
flammable material unless the importation —

(a) is effected in accordance with the provisions of the
     person’s licence and with every condition specified
     therein; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
115  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

     (b) is in such quantities and in such manner and in accordance
          with requirements prescribed in relation to such petroleum
          or flammable material.
                                                                          [35A

                                                                                           [7/2004; 14/2013]

Transport of petroleum and flammable materials

 80.—(1) A person must not transport any class of petroleum or any
flammable material (other than as a driver of a road vehicle) if —

       (a) the regulations require the person transporting such
            petroleum or flammable material to hold a licence from
            the Commissioner to transport such petroleum or
            flammable material; and

       (b) the person does not hold such a valid licence.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (2) A person must not transport any class of petroleum or any
flammable material (other than as a driver of a road vehicle) unless
the transportation —

       (a) is in accordance with the provisions of the person’s licence
            and with every condition specified therein; and

       (b) is in such quantities and in such manner and in accordance
            with requirements prescribed in relation to such petroleum
            or flammable material.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (3) A person must not drive any vehicle transporting any class of
petroleum or any flammable material by road if —

       (a) the regulations require the vehicle to be licensed to
            transport such petroleum or flammable material and the
            vehicle is not licensed by the Commissioner to carry such
            petroleum or flammable material; and

       (b) the regulations require the person to hold a permit from the
            Commissioner to drive a vehicle carrying such petroleum
            or flammable material and the person does not hold such a
            valid permit.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       116

 (4) A person must not drive any vehicle transporting any class of
petroleum or any flammable material by road unless the person does
so in such manner and in accordance with requirements prescribed in
relation to such petroleum or flammable material, and in accordance
with the provisions of the person’s permit and every condition
specified therein.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (5) Nothing in this section applies to petroleum or any flammable
material in the fuel tank of a vehicle which is used or intended to be
used as fuel for that vehicle.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (6) Every permit issued by the Commissioner before 16 February
2005 authorising any person to drive any vehicle transporting any
class of petroleum or any flammable material by road is deemed to
have been issued under subsection (3)(b).

                                                                             [35B

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

Dispensing of petroleum and flammable materials

 81. A person must not dispense or cause to be dispensed any class
of petroleum or any flammable material except —

       (a) in or on licensed premises;

       (b) in accordance with the provisions of the storage licence for
            the licensed premises and with every condition specified
            therein; and

       (c) in the case of the dispensing of any class of petroleum or
            any flammable material into cylinders, where the
            regulations require a person so dispensing that class of
            petroleum or flammable material to have the specific
            approval of the Commissioner, with such approval and in
            accordance with any conditions the Commissioner may
            impose.
                                                                               [36

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
117  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

Pipelines for petroleum and flammable materials

 82. A person, being a pipeline owner, must not convey, or allow the
conveyance of, any class of petroleum or any flammable material
through any section of a relevant pipeline in relation to which the
person is the pipeline owner except under the authority of and in
accordance with the provisions of a pipeline licence from the
Commissioner and every condition specified therein.

                                                                             [36A

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

Conduct of works in vicinity of licensed pipeline

 83.—(1) A person (other than the holder of the licence) must not
commence or carry out, or cause or permit the commencement or
carrying out of, any works in the vicinity of the licensed pipeline
unless the person —

       (a) has given to the holder of the licence not less than 7 days’
            notice in writing of the date on which it is proposed to
            commence the works;

       (b) has obtained from the holder of the licence the necessary
            information on the location of the licensed pipeline; and

       (c) has consulted the holder of the licence on the steps to be
            taken to prevent the licensed pipeline from being damaged
            while the works are being carried out.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (2) Every person who commences or carries out, or causes or
permits the commencement or carrying out of, any works referred to
in subsection (1) must —

       (a) comply with all reasonable requirements of the holder of
            the licence for the prevention of damage to the licensed
            pipeline;

       (b) ensure that reasonable precautions are taken when such
            works are being carried out to prevent any damage to the
            licensed pipeline; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       118

       (c) allow the holder of the licence reasonable access to the
            work site for the purpose of inspecting or taking any
            necessary measures to protect the licensed pipeline.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (3) Upon receiving a notice under subsection (1)(a), the holder of
the licence must —

(a) promptly inform the person giving the notice of the
     location of the licensed pipeline, and provide the person
     with such other information as may be necessary to enable
     the person to ascertain the exact location of the licensed
     pipeline;

(b) advise the person on the precautions to be taken to prevent
     damage to the licensed pipeline; and

       (c) take all such measures at the work site as may be
            reasonable and necessary for the protection of the
            licensed pipeline and, in so doing, the holder of the
            licence must have regard to the potential risks and dangers
            that can arise from any damage to the licensed pipeline.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (4) Nothing in subsection (1) prohibits a person from commencing
or carrying out, or causing or permitting the commencement or
carrying out of, any works where the person has reasonable cause to
believe that it is necessary to do so in the interest of public or private
safety.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (5) The person mentioned in subsection (4) must, as soon as
practicable but not more than 24 hours after commencing the work,
give to the holder of the licence written notice stating the nature and
extent of those works.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (2), (3) or (5) shall
be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (7) Subject to subsection (8), in any proceedings for an offence
under subsection (6), it is a defence for the person charged to prove —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
119  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

     (a) that the person took all reasonable steps to discharge the
          person’s duty under subsection (1), (2), (3) or (5), as the
          case may be; or

       (b) that the person took all reasonable precautions and
            exercised all due diligence to avoid the commission of
            the offence.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (8) If, in any proceedings for an offence under subsection (6), the
defence involves acting on information supplied by the holder of the
licence, the person charged is not, without permission of the court,
entitled to rely on that defence unless the person charged has, within
14 clear days before the hearing, served on the prosecutor a written
notice giving such information as was then in the possession of the
person charged identifying or assisting in the identification of the
person who supplied the person charged with the information.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (9) In this section —

     “construction works and services” has the meaning given by the
        Building and Construction Authority Act 1999;

     “earthworks” has the meaning given by the Gas Act 2001;

     “holder of the licence” means the holder of a pipeline licence for
        the licensed pipeline concerned;

     “works” means any construction works and services or
        earthworks.

                                                                  [36B

                                                                [14/2013]

Damage to licensed pipeline

 84.—(1) Any person who wilfully or recklessly removes, destroys,
damages or suffers to be damaged any licensed pipeline or hinders or
prevents a licensed pipeline from being used or operated in the
manner in which it is intended to be used or operated shall be guilty of
an offence.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       120

 (2) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is a
defence for the person charged to prove that the person took all
reasonable precautions and exercised all due diligence to avoid the
commission of the offence.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (3) If, in any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), the
defence involves acting on information supplied by a holder of the
licence, the person charged is not, without permission of the court,
entitled to rely on that defence unless the person charged has, within
14 clear days before the hearing, served on the prosecutor a written
notice giving such information as was then in the possession of the
person charged identifying or assisting in the identification of the
person who supplied the person charged with the information.

                                                                             [36C

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Offences

 85.—(1) Any person who contravenes section 78, 79(1) or (2),
80(1), (2), (3) or (4) or 81 shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (2) Any person who contravenes section 82 or 83 shall be guilty of
an offence.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (3) Any person who contravenes section 84 shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or
to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                                                               [37

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

Powers of entry, inspection, etc.

 86.—(1) For the purposes of this Part, the Commissioner has
powers to —

       (a) stop and examine any vehicle when he or she has reason to
            believe that any class of petroleum or any flammable

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
121  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

     material is being transported in the vehicle in
     contravention of this Act;

     (b) inspect, examine and test all classes of petroleum or any
          flammable material stored on land and for such purposes
          take samples thereof;

     (c) enter any place where he or she has reason to believe that
         any class of petroleum or any flammable material is stored
         in contravention of this Act; and

       (d) seize any stock of any class of petroleum, any flammable
            material or equipment in respect of which he or she has
            reason to believe that an offence under this Act has been
            committed.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (2) If any place liable to inspection under this section is closed, any
person residing in or being in charge of such place must, on demand
by any authorised officer, allow the authorised officer free entry
thereto and provide all reasonable facilities for a search therein.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (3) If entry to such place cannot be obtained, any authorised officer
may —

     (a) break open any outer or inner door or window of that place;

     (b) forcibly enter that place and every part thereof; or

     (c) remove by force any obstruction to such entry or search.
                                                                            [38

                                                                                                     [14/2013]

Power to waive requirements

 87.—(1) The Commissioner may upon application by any
person —

       (a) waive or modify any of the requirements of any licence or
            permit issued under this Part; or

       (b) waive the requirement for that person to obtain any licence
            or permit issued under this Part in any circumstances
            specified in writing by the Commissioner if the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       122

           Commissioner is satisfied that fire safety will not be
           compromised in those circumstances.

                                                                                                         [14/2013]

(2) A waiver or modification under subsection (1) —

(a) may be granted subject to such conditions as the
     Commissioner may specify in writing; and

       (b) need not be published in the Gazette and may be revoked at
            any time by the Commissioner.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (3) The Commissioner may at any time add to, vary or revoke any
condition imposed under this section.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (4) The Minister may, by regulations prescribed under section 113,
provide that the powers of the Commissioner under subsection (1) are
limited only to certain kinds of licences or permits or certain
circumstances specified in the regulations.

                                                                             [38A

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

Grant and renewal of licence or permit

 88.—(1) The grant of any licence or permit under this Part is in the
absolute discretion of the Commissioner.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (2) Every licence or permit granted under this Part is subject to such
conditions as the Commissioner thinks fit to impose.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (3) Every licence or permit granted under this Part, if it has not been
cancelled under section 89, may, on the application of the holder of
the licence or permit, be renewed by the Commissioner subject to
such conditions as the Commissioner thinks fit to impose.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (4) Every licence or permit is, on payment of the prescribed fees,
valid for such period not exceeding 3 years as the Commissioner may
determine.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
123  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

 (5) Any person who is aggrieved by any decision of the
Commissioner under this section may, within one month of being
notified of the decision of the Commissioner, appeal to the Minister.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (6) Any person who contravenes any of the conditions of a licence
or permit granted under this Part shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [39

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

Cancellation of licence or permit

 89.—(1) If —

       (a) at any time it appears to the Commissioner —

               (i) that any premises or vehicle, in respect of which a
                   licence or permit has been granted, has become unfit
                   for the purpose for which it was licensed by reason of
                   the increase of building or of population in its
                   neighbourhood; or

              (ii) that from any other cause, any licence or permit
                   should for the public safety be cancelled; or

       (b) the person to whom the licence or permit was granted
            contravenes any of the conditions of the licence or permit,

the Commissioner may by order cancel the licence or permit.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (2) The Commissioner must, before cancelling any licence or
permit under subsection (1), give to the person concerned written
notice of the Commissioner’s intention to do so specifying a date, not
less than 21 days after the notice, upon which the cancellation takes
effect and calling upon the person concerned to show cause to the
Commissioner why the licence or permit should not be cancelled.

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

 (3) When the Commissioner has cancelled the licence or permit
under subsection (1), he or she must inform the person concerned by
written notice of such cancellation as soon as it may be practicable.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (4) The person whose licence or permit has been cancelled may,
within 14 days of the receipt of the notice mentioned in

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.             Fire Safety Act 1993                            124

subsection (3), or such extended period of time as the Minister may
allow, appeal in writing against the cancellation to the Minister.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 22/2019]

 (5) An order of cancellation does not take effect until the expiry of a
period of 14 days after the Commissioner has informed the holder of
the licence or permit in question of the order.

                                                                               [40

                                                                                                             [7/2004]

Disposal of stocks and equipment

 90. Any property or thing seized or removed by the Commissioner
in exercise of his or her powers under this Part or any regulations
made under this Act must be confiscated and disposed of in such
manner as the Commissioner thinks fit, and the proceeds (if any) of
such disposal must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                               [42

                     PART 6A

                     APPEALS

Appeals to Minister

 91.—(1) This section applies to every appeal to the Minister made
under this Act.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (2) An appeal to the Minister must be made in the manner
prescribed.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) The Minister may determine an appeal against a decision of or
an order made by the Commissioner or a licensing officer —

(a) by confirming the decision or order in whole or varying it
     in part; or

(b) by reversing the decision or order.

                                                                     [22/2019]

 (4) Before determining an appeal, the Minister may consult the
Appeal Advisory Board appointed under section 92.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
125  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

 (5) In deciding an appeal, the Minister may have regard to any
report made to the Minister by the Appeal Advisory Board.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

(6) The Minister’s decision on any appeal is final.

                                                                [22/2019]

 (7) Except where provided by sections 52(8), 54(8), 73(8) and
74(10) or unless the Minister otherwise directs, a decision or an order
appealed against does not take effect until —

     (a) the appeal is determined by the Minister under
          subsection (3); or

     (b) the appeal is withdrawn.

                                                                [22/2019]

 (8) The Minister may designate any of the following persons to hear
and determine, in the Minister’s place, any appeal under this Act:

     (a) the Second Minister (if any) for his or her Ministry;

     (b) a Minister of State (which includes a Senior Minister of
          State) for his or her Ministry;

     (c) a Parliamentary Secretary (which includes a Senior
         Parliamentary Secretary) assisting the Minister under this
         Part;

       (d) any public officer in his or her Ministry not subordinate to
            the Commissioner whose decision or order is appealed
            against.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (9) Any reference to the Minister in subsections (1) to (7) includes a
reference to a person designated under subsection (8).

                                                                             [42A

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

Appeal Advisory Board

 92.—(1) The Appeal Advisory Board consists of a Chairperson, a
Vice‑Chairperson and such other members as the Minister may
appoint.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       126

 (2) The Chairperson, Vice‑Chairperson and members of the Appeal
Advisory Board —

(a) hold their office for such period as the Minister may
     determine, and may be re‑appointed;

(b) may at any time be removed from office by the Minister;
     and

          (c) may at any time resign from their office by writing
              addressed to the Minister.
                                                                               [42B

                                                                                                          [22/2019]

                                    PART 7

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Charging for extinguishing fires, etc., on inland waters or sea

 93.—(1) The Commissioner may charge fees for extinguishing any
fire or protecting life and property in the event of any fire on inland
waters or the sea, from such classes of persons as may be prescribed.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (2) The Commissioner may recover as a debt due to the
Government, from the classes of prescribed persons mentioned in
subsection (1), the reasonable costs and expenses of investigating a
fire mentioned in that subsection, including charges for any
laboratory analysis.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) Different classes of persons and amounts of fees may be
prescribed for different circumstances.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (4) Any such unpaid fees may be recovered by the Government as a
civil debt in any court of competent jurisdiction.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (5) In this section, references to the sea are not restricted to the
territorial waters of Singapore.

                                                                               [43

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
127  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

Obstructing authorised persons in execution of their duty

 94. Any person who obstructs, hinders or impedes the
Commissioner or any person authorised under this Act in the
performance and execution of his or her duty or of anything which he
or she is empowered or required to do by virtue or in consequence of
or under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                                                               [44

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

Analyst’s certificate

 95.—(1) A certificate purporting to be signed by an analyst
employed by the Health Sciences Authority and purporting to
relate to petroleum is to be admitted in evidence in any
proceedings for an offence under Part 6, on its production by the
prosecution without proof of signature and, until the contrary is
proved, such certificate is prima facie evidence of all matters
contained therein.

                                                                                                             [4/2001]

 (2) In this section, “Health Sciences Authority” means the Health
Sciences Authority established under the Health Sciences Authority
Act 2001.

                                                                               [45

                                                                                                             [4/2001]

Powers of arrest

 96.—(1) The Commissioner or any member of or above the rank of
warrant officer duly authorised in writing in that behalf by the
Commissioner or any police officer may without warrant arrest any
person whom he or she reasonably suspects to have committed an
offence under this Act —

       (a) if the name and address of the person are unknown to him
            or her;

       (b) if the person declines to give the person’s name and
            address; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       128

       (c) if there is any reason to doubt the accuracy of the name and
            address, if given.

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

 (2) A person arrested under this section may be detained until the
person’s name and address are correctly ascertained.

 (3) No person arrested may be detained longer than is necessary for
bringing the person before a court unless the order of a court for his or
her detention is obtained.

                                                                               [46

Inaccuracies in documents

 97.—(1) A misnomer or inaccurate description of any person,
premises, building, holding, street or place named or described in any
document prepared, issued or served under, by virtue of or for the
purposes of this Act, does not in any way affect the operation of this
Act as respects that person or place if that person or place is so
designated in the document as to be identifiable.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (2) No proceedings taken under or by virtue of this Act are invalid
for want of form.

                                                                               [47

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

Evidence

 98.—(1) The contents of any document prepared, issued or served
under, by virtue of or for the purposes of this Act are, until the
contrary is proved, presumed to be correct.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (2) All records and other documents required by this Act to be kept
by the Commissioner are deemed to be public documents, and copies
thereof or extracts therefrom certified by the officer responsible for
the custody thereof to be true copies or extracts (as the case may be),
subscribed by that officer with the officer’s name and the officer’s
official title is admissible in evidence as proof of the contents of the
documents or extracts.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
129  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

 (3) A certificate purporting to be under the hand of the
Commissioner and specifying the costs and expenses or arrears as
due and payable by any person is prima facie evidence of the facts
certified therein and of the signature of the Commissioner.

                                                                               [48

Service of documents

 99.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on, given or communicated to a person may be served as
described in this section.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (2) A document may be served on an individual —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
            if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
            address or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual; or

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) A document may be served on a partnership (other than a
limited liability partnership) —

       (a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer of the
            partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the partnership’s business address;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       130

          (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
              partnership’s business address; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
            address.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) A document may be served on a body corporate (including a
limited liability partnership) —

(a) by giving it to the body corporate’s secretary or other
     similar officer, or the limited liability partnership’s
     manager;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the body corporate’s registered office or principal office
     in Singapore;

          (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the body
              corporate’s registered office or principal office in
              Singapore; or

      (d) by sending it by email to the body corporate’s last email
           address.

                                                                                                         [22/2019]

(5) Service of a document under this section takes effect —

(a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
     successful transmission is received, on the day of
     transmission;

(b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
     becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
     it is sent; and

       (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
            after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
            undelivered).

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (6) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email may be effected only with the person’s prior consent (express or
implied) to service in that way.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
131  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (8) In this section —

     “business address” means —

     (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
          last known place of business in Singapore; or

     (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
          liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
          last known place of business in Singapore;

     “document” includes a notice or an order permitted or required
        by this Act to be served;

     “last email address” means —

     (a) the last email address given by the addressee
          concerned to the person giving or serving the
          document as the email address for the service of
          documents under this Act; or

     (b) the last email address of the addressee concerned
          known to the person giving or serving the document;

     “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
        place of residence in Singapore.

                                                                    [49

                                                                [22/2019]

Use of electronic service for making applications under Part 4

 99A.—(1) The Commissioner may permit an application to him or
her under Part 4 to be made through the electronic service described
in section 42AA of the Building Control Act 1989.

 (2) Where a person uses the electronic service mentioned in
subsection (1) to make an application to the Commissioner, the
Commissioner may serve on the person any acknowledgment,
approval, certificate, direction, notice, permit or other document in
connection with the application, by sending it to the person’s account
with the electronic service.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.     Fire Safety Act 1993                                    132

 (3) Service of a document on a person under subsection (2) takes
effect at the time when an electronic record of the document reaches
the person’s account with the electronic service.

(4) This section applies despite anything to the contrary in this Act.

 (5) In this section, “electronic record” has the meaning given by
section 2(1) of the Electronic Transactions Act 2010.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Jurisdiction of court

 100. Despite the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, a
District Court has jurisdiction to hear and determine all offences
under this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment
in respect of an offence under this Act.

                                                                               [50

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

Composition of offences

 101.—(1) The Commissioner may compound any offence under
this Act which is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting
from a person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence
a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:

(a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
     prescribed for the offence;

(b) $5,000.

                                                                     [14/2013]

 (2) On payment of such sum of money, no further proceedings may
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (3) The Minister may make regulations to prescribe the offences
which may be compounded under this section.

                                                                               [51

Conduct of prosecutions

 102. Proceedings in respect of any offence under this Act may, with
the authorisation of the Public Prosecutor, be conducted by any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
133                Fire Safety Act 1993                         2020 Ed.

officer of the Force or any other person authorised in writing in that
behalf by the Commissioner.

                                                                               [52

                                                                                                [15/2010; 14/2013]

Exemption

 103. The Minister may, by order either generally or in any
particular case, and subject to such conditions as the Minister may
impose, exempt any person, premises, structure, aircraft, vehicle,
vessel or fire safety works from all or any of the provisions of this
Act.

                                                                               [53

                                                                                                 [7/2004; 14/2013]

Offences by corporations

 104.—(1) Where, in any proceedings for an offence under this Act,
it is necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to
a particular conduct, evidence that —

     (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
          that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
          apparent authority; and

     (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

                                                                [22/2019]

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

     (a) who is —

     (i) an officer of the corporation; or

     (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
          corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
          of the corporation in relation to the commission of
          the offence; and

     (b) who —

     (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
         effect the commission of the offence;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       134

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the corporation; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (6) In this section —

“corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
   meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
   Act 2005;

“officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
   partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
   officer of the corporation, and includes —

          (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
135  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

     (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
          members, any of those members as if the member
          were a director of the corporation;

     “state of mind” of a person includes —

     (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
          of the person; and

     (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
          or purpose.
                                                                      [54

                                                                                            [22/2019]

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 105.—(1) Where, in any proceedings for an offence under this Act,
it is necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated
association or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct,
evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership (as the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.   Fire Safety Act 1993                                      136

          case may be) in relation to the commission of the
          offence; and

(b) who —

          (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
              effect the commission of the offence;

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the unincorporated
               association or partnership; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the unincorporated association or
                partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
137                    Fire Safety Act 1993                     2020 Ed.

(6) In this section —

     “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
        a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
        member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
        and includes —

     (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
          president, secretary or member of a committee of the
          unincorporated association; and

     (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

     “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

     “state of mind” of a person includes —

     (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
          of the person; and

     (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
          or purpose.
                                                                   [54A

                                                                                            [22/2019]

Adoption of codes and standards

 106.—(1) Any regulations made under section 113 may adopt
(wholly or partially or as amended by the regulations or by reference)
any code, standard, rule, specification or provision which relates to
any matter with which the regulations deal and which is —

       (a) recommended, issued or adopted by the Enterprise
            Singapore Board;

       (b) recommended, issued or adopted by any other standards
            organisation or body of any place outside Singapore being
            an organisation or body approved by the Commissioner; or

       (c) included in any document issued by any Government
            department or issued by the public authority constituted
            under any written law.

                                                                                                [14/2013; 10/2018]

 (2) The Commissioner must cause a copy of every code, standard,
rule, specification or provision adopted under subsection (1)(b) or (c)

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       138

to be made available for inspection by members of the public without
charge at the office of the Commissioner during normal office hours.

 (3) In any proceedings under this Act, a copy certified by the
Commissioner as a true copy of a code, standard, rule, specification
or provision adopted under subsection (1)(b) or (c) is evidence of the
code, standard, rule, specification or provision so adopted.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (4) Unless otherwise provided in any regulations made under
section 113, in the event that any code, standard, rule, specification or
provision adopted under subsection (1) is inconsistent with the Code
of Practice for Fire Precautions in Buildings published by the
Commissioner, the Code of Practice for Fire Precautions in Buildings
prevails.

                                                                               [55

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

General penalties

 107. Any person who is guilty of an offence under this Act for
which no penalty is expressly provided shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing
offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of
a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                               [56

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

Provision of information

 108.—(1) In addition to any other powers under this Act, the
Commissioner or any authorised officer may by notice require any
person to provide, within a reasonable period specified in the notice,
any document, record or information in the possession or knowledge
of that person that the Commissioner or the authorised officer (as the
case may be) believes on reasonable grounds to be relevant to the
administration or enforcement of this Act.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (2) The power to require a person to provide any document or
record under subsection (1) includes the power to retain the original

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
139  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

copy of the document or record or to copy or make extracts from the
document or record.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (3) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with any notice under subsection (1) or who provides any information
which the person knows or has reason to believe is false or misleading
shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [57

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

False or misleading information

 109. Any person who provides any information, that the person
knows or has reason to believe is false or misleading, to the
Commissioner or licensing officer in connection with any application
for a licence or permit under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                                                             [57A

                                                                                                           [22/2019]

Saving of prosecutions under other laws

 110.—(1) Nothing in this Act prevents any person from being
prosecuted under any other written law for any act or omission which
constitutes an offence under this Act, or from being liable under that
other law to any other or higher punishment or penalty than that
provided by this Act.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (2) No person shall be punished twice for the same offence.
                                                                               [58

Protection from liability

 111.—(1) No liability shall lie against the Government or any
public officer by reason of the fact that any fire safety works are
carried out in accordance with the provisions of this Act or that such
works or plans of the building are subject to inspection or approval by
the Commissioner or the public officer.

 (2) Nothing in this Act makes it obligatory for the Commissioner to
inspect any building or fire safety works or the site of any proposed

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       140

building to ascertain whether the provisions of this Act are complied
with or whether any plans, certificates, notices or other documents
submitted to the Commissioner are accurate.

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (3) No matter or thing done by the Commissioner or by any public
officer, fire forensic specialist or member of the Force or done by an
individual appointed under section 21, if it were done with reasonable
care and in good faith for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
this Act, subjects the Commissioner or such person personally liable
to any action, liability, claim or demand whatsoever.

                                                                               [59

                                                                                    [14/2013; 10/2015; 22/2019]

Transfer of employees to Force

 112. On 8 April 1994, every person who immediately before that
date was serving in the Singapore Fire Service constituted under the
repealed Fire Service Act (Cap. 110, 1985 Revised Edition) and in
force immediately before that date is transferred to the Force on the
same terms and rank enjoyed or attained by the person immediately
prior to the person’s transfer and is deemed to be appointed under the
Civil Defence Act 1986, and the person’s service in the Singapore
Fire Service is deemed to be service under the Civil Defence
Act 1986.

                                                                               [60

Regulations

 113.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for carrying out the
purposes and provisions of this Act as the Minister considers
necessary and for any matter which is required under this Act to be
prescribed and, in particular, the Minister may make regulations in
respect of all or any of the following matters:

       (a) the establishment, registration and regulation of fire safety
            managers and Company Emergency Response Teams in
            any premises or any class of premises as may be prescribed
            by the Minister, and the requirement for such persons to be
            provided with fire safety equipment as may be prescribed

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
141  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

     or to undergo such training or assessment and satisfy such
     standards as the Commissioner may specify;

     (b) the control of the sale, supply, installation, repair,
          maintenance and inspection of fire safety works;

     (c) the licensing of persons who carry on the trade or business
         of supplying, selling, maintaining, repairing or inspecting
         fire safety works;

     (d) the prescribing of the type of fire safety measures to be
          installed in any premises;

     (e) the prescribing of the requirements of an Emergency
         Response Plan required under this Act;

     (f) the time and manner of making an application for a fire
         certificate under section 35, and the circumstances in
         which the Commissioner may revoke a fire certificate;

     (g) the duties of persons granted licences under section 50;

     (h) the control, regulation and supervision by registration,
          licensing, inspection or otherwise of places to which the
          public has access;

     (i) the submission of plans and specifications of fire safety
         works, the authorisation of persons qualified to submit the
         same and their duties and responsibilities and the nature or
         classifications of plans or specifications which each such
         person may submit;

     (j) the time and manner of making an application for
         temporary fire permits and fire safety certificate;

     (k) the time and manner of making an application for the
         change of use of premises;

     (l) the duties of accredited certification bodies in relation to
         the certification of regulated fire safety products;

     (m) the duties of a local representative appointed by a foreign
          person to whom a certificate of conformity is issued;

     (n) the duties of a person to whom a certificate of conformity is
          issued;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       142

(o) the prescribing of the type of tests to be applied to any
     petroleum or flammable material to ascertain its flashpoint
     and the methods of applying the same;

(p) the determining of the standard of any class of petroleum;

(q) the licensing and management of relevant pipelines and
     places for storing any class of petroleum or any flammable
     material, including requirements to establish Company
     Emergency Response Teams and to prepare Emergency
     Response Plans for such Company Emergency Response
     Teams to undergo such training or assessment and satisfy
     such standards as the Commissioner may specify;

          (r) the prescribing of the quantities of any class of petroleum
              or any flammable material that may be stored in any
              licensed premises and the method in which it is to be stored
              including the maximum quantity of any class of petroleum
              or any flammable material that can be stored without a
              licence for residential, commercial or industrial use;

          (s) the regulation of the dispensing of any class of petroleum
              or any flammable material;

          (t) the regulation of the conveyance of any class of petroleum
              or any flammable material by a relevant pipeline;

(u) the regulation of the transport of any class of petroleum or
     any flammable material, including specifying the time
     during which such petroleum or flammable material can be
     transported and the maximum quantity of any class of
     petroleum or any flammable material that can be
     transported without a licence or permit;

          (v) the determining of the quantity of and the receptacles in
              which any class of petroleum or any flammable material
              may be carried in any vehicle;

(w) the prescribing of the standard and specification for the
     construction of any premises in which any class of
     petroleum or any flammable material is to be stored;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
143  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

     (x) the prescribing of the types and standards of materials and
         appliances to be used for preventing or extinguishing fire
         in any licensed premises;

     (y) the provisions for the protection of premises adjacent to
         licensed premises;

     (z) the requiring of any receptacle containing petroleum or
         flammable material to carry warning labels and to denote
         the class of petroleum or the flammable material contained
         therein;

     (za) the regulation of the import, storage, transport,
           distribution, maintenance and disposal of cylinders used
           to contain any class of petroleum or flammable material,
           including requirements to store different brands of
           cylinders at different licensed premises and for labelling
           and colour-coding of cylinders;

     (zb) the prescribing of fees and charges for the purposes of this
           Act;

     (zc) the prescribing of conditions to be attached to any licence
           or permit, including the requirement for licensees to
           impose specified contractual terms on other parties to
           enable the licensee to maintain fire safety in its operations,
           and the requirements and conditions to be observed by
           persons at the premises or driving any vehicle to which the
           licence or permit relates;

     (zd) the regulation, control and licensing of persons and
           organisations engaged in the business of petroleum or
           flammable material distribution;

     (ze) the requirement for security to be given by any class of
           licensees to ensure compliance with this Act;

     (zf) the prescribing of forms for licences and permits and for
          other purposes for use in connection with this Act;

     (zg) the duties and responsibilities of registered inspectors and
           fire safety engineers and the manner in which those duties
           and responsibilities are to be discharged, including a code

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2020 Ed.  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       144

          of conduct and ethics for registered inspectors and fire
          safety engineers;

(zh) the prescribing of the procedure of the Appeal Advisory
      Board;

(zi) the regulation of the proceedings of any Inquiry
     Committee constituted under section 9 or section 44;

(zj) the prescribing of the procedure of or any other matter
     relating to an appeal to the Minister;

(zk) the prescribing of a right to appeal to the Minister against a
      decision made under the regulations;

       (zl) the prescribing of any matter which is required for the
            purposes of this Act.

                                                                                     [7/2004; 14/2013; 22/2019]

 (2) The Minister may, in making any regulations under
subsection (1), provide that any contravention or failure to comply
with any of the provisions of the regulations shall be an offence
punishable with a fine not exceeding $10,000 or with imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 6 months or with both.

                                                                               [61

Transitional provisions

 114.—(1) Any scheme, contract, document, licence, permission or
resolution prepared, made, granted or approved under the repealed
Fire Service Act (Cap. 110, 1985 Revised Edition) or the repealed
section 12, 14, 17, 18 or 19 of the Petroleum Act (Cap. 229,
1985 Revised Edition), so far as it is not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act and except as otherwise expressly provided in
this Act or in any other written law, continues and is deemed to have
been prepared, made, granted or approved under the corresponding
provisions of this Act.

 (2) All moneys belonging to the Fire Service Welfare Fund
established under section 12 of the repealed Fire Service Act
(Cap. 110, 1985 Revised Edition) are, on 8 April 1994, transferred
to and deemed to be moneys belonging to the Civil Defence Force

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
145  Fire Safety Act 1993                                       2020 Ed.

Fund established under section 101 of the Civil Defence Act 1986 and
must be used for the purposes stated in that section.

                                                                               [62

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                         FIRE SAFETY ACT 1993

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                  PART 1
                         FIRE SERVICE ACT
           (CHAPTER 110, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

1. Act 6 of 1980 — Fire Service Act, 1980

Bill           : 41/1979

First Reading  : 11 December 1979

Second and Third Readings : 26 February 1980

Commencement   : 1 August 1980

Note: This Act repealed Part IV of the Local Government Integration Act
        (Chapter 210, 1970 Revised Edition).

2. 1985 Revised Edition — Fire Service Act (Chapter 110)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

                           PART 2
                FIRE SAFETY ACT 1993
               (2020 REVISED EDITION)

3. Act 39 of 1993 — Fire Safety Act 1993

Bill           : 31/1993

First Reading  : 12 October 1993

Second and Third Readings : 10 November 1993

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
                      ii

Commencement          : 8 April 1994 (except Part VI and
                            sections 60 and 62)
                            29 April 1994 (Part VI and sections 60
                            and 62)

Note: This Act was brought into force after it was revised in 1994.

4. Act 1 of 1996 — Singapore Productivity and Standards Board Act 1995
   (Amendments made by section 44 read with item 5 of the Third Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill                  : 39/1995

First Reading         : 1 November 1995

Second Reading        : 5 December 1995

Notice of Amendments  : 5 December 1995

Third Reading         : 5 December 1995

Commencement          : 1 April 1996 (section 44 read with
                            item 5 of the Third Schedule)

5. Act 5 of 2000 — Fire Safety (Amendment) Act 2000

Bill                  : 43/1999

First Reading         : 24 November 1999

Second and Third Readings : 17 January 2000

Commencement          : 1 April 2000

6. G.N. No. S 449/2000 — Fire Safety Act (Amendment of First Schedule)
                                   Notification 2000

Commencement          : 15 October 2000

7. 2000 Revised Edition — Fire Safety Act (Chapter 109A)

Operation             : 30 December 2000

8. Act 4 of 2001 — The Health Sciences Authority Act 2001
   (Amendments made by section 42 read with item (5) of the Second Schedule
   to the above Act)

Bill                  : 3/2001

First Reading         : 12 January 2001

Second and Third Readings : 22 February 2001

Commencement          : 1 April 2001 (section 42 read with
                            item (5) of the Second Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
                         iii

9. Act 7 of 2004 — Fire Safety (Amendment) Act 2004

Bill                     : 5/2004

First Reading            : 5 January 2004

Second and Third Readings : 6 February 2004

Commencement             : 15 April 2004 (except sections 3, 8,
                               10, 11, 12, 14 to 22, 25(a) to (g) and
                               26, and items (1) and (2) of the
                               Schedule)
                               1 July 2004 (sections 3, 10, 11 and 12)
                               10 September 2004 (section 8)
                               16 February 2005 (sections 14 to 22,
                               25(a) to (g) and 26, and items (1) and
                               (2) of the Schedule)

10. Act 47 of 2004 — Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act
                             2004

     (Amendments made by section 140 read with item (7) of the Fifth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                     : 6/2004

First Reading            : 6 February 2004

Second Reading           : 19 April 2004

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 5 of 2004

Third Reading            : 19 October 2004

Commencement             : 1 April 2005 (section 140 read with
                               item (7) of the Fifth Schedule)

11. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 42 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                     : 11/2010

First Reading            : 26 April 2010

Second Reading           : 18 May 2010

Third Reading            : 19 May 2010

Commencement             : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                               item 42 of the Sixth Schedule)

12. Act 14 of 2013 — Fire Safety (Amendment) Act 2013

Bill                     : 1/2013

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
                      iv

First Reading         : 14 January 2013

Second and Third Readings : 8 April 2013

Commencement          : 1 September 2013 (except sections 40
                            and 41(b))
                            1 March 2014 (sections 40 and 41(b))

13. Act 10 of 2015 — Police Force (Amendment) Act 2015
     (Amendments made by section 45 read with the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 5/2015

First Reading         : 29 January 2015

Second and Third Readings : 13 March 2015

Commencement          : 1 June 2015 (section 45 read with the
                            Schedule)

14. Act 31 of 2016 — Fire Safety (Amendment) Act 2016

Bill                  : 31/2016

First Reading         : 10 October 2016

Second and Third Readings : 10 November 2016

Commencement          : 1 February 2017

15. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 62 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2017

First Reading         : 6 November 2017

Second Reading        : 8 January 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 8 January 2018

Third Reading         : 8 January 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 62)

16. Act 10 of 2018 — Enterprise Singapore Board Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 78(6) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 3/2018

First Reading         : 8 January 2018

Second and Third Readings : 5 February 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 78(6))

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
                      v

17. Act 22 of 2019 — Fire Safety (Amendment) Act 2019

Bill                  : 16/2019

First Reading         : 8 July 2019

Second and Third Readings : 5 August 2019

Commencement          : 14 September 2020

18. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 58 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 58 of the Schedule)

19. Act 4 of 2021 — Statute Law Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 15(7) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2020

First Reading         : 3 November 2020

Second and Third Readings : 5 January 2021

Commencement          : 1 March 2021 (section 15(7))

20. 2020 Revised Edition — Fire Safety Act 1993

Operation             : 31 December 2021

21. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by Part 7 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 18/2021

First Reading         : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement          : 1 April 2022

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
               vi

22. Act 23 of 2023 — Building and Related Works (Miscellaneous
                             Amendments) Act 2023

     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 19/2023

First Reading  : 9 May 2023

Second and Third Readings : 4 July 2023

Commencement   : 18 December 2023

               Abbreviations

.              (updated on 29 August 2022)
               Gazette Notification
G.N.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
G.N. Sp.       Legislative Assembly
L.A.           Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
L.N.           Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
M.             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
               Malaysia)
Parl.          Parliament
S              Subsidiary Legislation
S.I.           Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
S.S.G.G.       Straits Settlements Government Gazette
S.S.G.G. (E)   Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
COMPARATIVE TABLE
FIRE SAFETY ACT 1993

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2000 Ed.
4                          3A
5                          4
6                          5
7                          5A
—
—                             (6) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2019]
—                             (7) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2019]
                              (8) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2019]
   (6)                        (9)
   (7)                        (10)
   (8)                        (11)
   (9)                        (12)
8                          6
—                             (5) [Deleted by Act 14 of 2013]
   (5)                        (6)
9                          6A
[Omitted as spent]            (9)
10                         6B
11                         6C
—                             (11) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2019]
—                             (12) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2019]
—                             (13) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2019]
   (11)                       (14)
12                         6D
13                         7

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
        2020 Ed.  ii         2000 Ed.

14                 8
15                 8A
16                 8B
17                 8C
18                 8CA
19                 8D
20                 8E
21                 8F
22                 9
23                 10
24                 11
25                 12
26                 12A
27                 12B
28                 13

   (3)                 (2A)
   (4)                 (3)
   (5)                 (4)
29                 14
30                 15
   (2)                 (1A)
   (3)                 (1B)
   (4)                 (2)
   (5)                 (3)
   (6)                 (4)
   (7)                 (5)
   (8)                 (6)
   (9)                 (7)

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
         2020 Ed.  iii

   (10)                                2000 Ed.
   (11)                 (8)
31                      (9)
32                   16
   (2)               17
   (3)                  (1A)
   (4)                  (2)
   (5)                  (3)
   (6)                  (4)
   (7)                  (5)
   (8)                  (6)
33                      (7)
34                   18
35                   19
36                   20
37                   20A
   (5)               21
   (6)                  (4A)
   (7)                  (5)
38                      (6)
—                    22
39                      (3A) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2019]
40                   22AA
41                   22AB
42                   22A
   (3)               22B
   (4)                  (2A)
   (5)                  (3)
                        (4)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
         2020 Ed.  iv

   (6)                                 2000 Ed.
   (7)                  (5)
43                      (6)
—                    22C
—                       (7) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2019]
   (7)                  (8) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2019]
   (8)                  (9)
44                      (10)
   (4)               22D
   (5)                  (3A)
   (6)                  (4)
   (7)                  (5)
   (8)                  (6)
   (9)                  (7)
   (10)                 (8)
45                      (9)
46                   22E
47                   22F
48                   22G
49                   22H
50                   22I
51                   22J
52                   22K
53                   22L
54                   22M
55                   22N
   (2)               23
   (3)                  (1A)
                        (2)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
         2020 Ed.  v

   (4)                                2000 Ed.
   (5)                  (3)
   (6)                  (4)
   (7)                  (5)
   (8)                  (6)
   (9)                  (7)
   (10)                 (8)
   (11)                 (9)
   (12)                 (10)
   (13)                 (11)
56                      (12)
57                  24
   (2)              25
   (3)                  (1A)
   (4)                  (2)
   (5)                  (3)
   (6)                  (4)
   (7)                  (5)
   (8)                  (6)
   (9)                  (6A)
   (10)                 (6B)
   (11)                 (7)
58                      (8)
59                  26
—                   27
—                       (4) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2019]
—                       (5) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2019]
60                  28 [Repealed by Act 22 of 2019]
                    29

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
         2020 Ed.  vi

   (6)                                 2000 Ed.
   (7)                  (5A)
   (8)                  (6)
   (9)                  (7)
   (10)                 (8)
   (11)                 (9)
   (12)                 (10)
   (13)                 (11)
61                      (12)
62                   30
63                   30A
64                   30B
—                    30C—(1)
—                       (2) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2019]
—                       (3) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2019]
—                       (4) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2019]
65                      (5) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2019]
66                   30D
67                   31
68                   32
69                   32A
70                   32B
71                   32C
72                   32D
73                   33
74                   33A
75                   33B
76                   33C
                     33D

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
        2020 Ed.  vii

77                                    2000 Ed.
—                   34
78
79                      (3) [Deleted by Act 14 of 2013]
80                  35
81                  35A
82                  35B
83                  36
84                  36A
85                  36B
86                  36C
87                  37
88                  38
89                  38A
—                   39
—                   40
90
91                      (6) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2019]
92                  41 [Repealed by Act 7 of 2004]
93                  42
                    42A
   (2)              42B
   (3)              43
   (4)
   (5)                  (1A)
94                      (2)
95                      (3)
96                      (4)
97                  44
                    45
                    46
                    47

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
                 2020 Ed.  viii
98
99                                              2000 Ed.
100                           48
101                           49
                              50
   (2)                        51
   (3)
102                              (1A)
103                              (2)
104                           52
105                           53
106                           54
107                           54A
108                           55
109                           56
110                           57
111                           57A
112                           58
113                           59
114                           60
[Omitted as spent]            61
—                             62
—                                (3)
                                 (4) [Deleted by Act 4 of 2021]
                              THE SCHEDULE [Repealed by
                              Act 14 of 2013]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
