THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
              COMMON SERVICES TUNNELS
                               ACT 2018

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                          2020 Ed.

         Common Services Tunnels
                   Act 2018

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                              PART 1
                         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Purpose of Act
     2.
     3.

                                       PART 2
                               ADMINISTRATION

4. Common Services Tunnels Authority
5. Authorised officers

                                       PART 3

                 COMMON SERVICES TUNNEL AREAS

6. Declaration of common services tunnel areas
7. Changes to common services tunnel area
8. Notice of declaration and modification of declaration

                                        PART 4

                   POWERS IN RELATION TO COMMON
          SERVICES TUNNEL AND ANCILLARY FACILITIES

 9. Power to access common services tunnel
10. Power to prevent obstruction to ancillary structures of common

         services tunnel
11. Power to require upkeep of ancillary structures
12. Engineering works within common services tunnel protection

         zone
13. Mandating use of common services tunnel

                         1

                                                                  31.12.2021
         Common Services Tunnels

2        Act 2018                                      2020 Ed.

         PART 5

         OFFENCES AND ENFORCEMENT

Section  Penalty for obstructing authorised officer, etc., in course of duty
         Power to require information in respect of contraventions
   14.   Offences by corporations
   15.   Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   16.   Injunctions
   17.   Composition of offences
   18.
   19.

                                           PART 6

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   20. Appeal to Minister
   21. Minister may designate others to hear appeals
   22. Service of documents
   23. Protection from personal liability
   24. Exemption
   25. Regulations

An Act to establish common services tunnel areas and for the
  regulation of activities within or connected with common services
  tunnel areas to ensure the safe and efficient operation and
  functionality of any common services tunnel and any ancillary
  facility of the common services tunnel, and for connected purposes.

                                                           [6 November 2020]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Common Services Tunnels Act 2018.
                Common Services Tunnels

2020 Ed.        Act 2018                 3

Interpretation

2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

    “ancillary facility”, in relation to a common services tunnel,
        means —

          (a) any electrical substation, electrical switch room,
               generator set room or control centre used for the
               purposes of the common services tunnel; and

        (b) any ancillary structure;

“ancillary structure”, in relation to a common services tunnel,
   means —

          (a) any entrance to or exit from the common services
               tunnel;

          (b) any passage, corridor or stairway connecting an
               entrance to or exit from the common services tunnel;

          (c) any ventilation opening, duct or shaft necessary for
              the operation or functioning of the common services
              tunnel; and

        (d) any supporting physical structure necessary for the
             operation or functioning of the common services
             tunnel;

“authorised officer” means an authorised officer appointed
   under section 5(1);

“authorised person” has the meaning given by section 9(7);

“common services tunnel” or “CST” means a system of
   underground concrete structures within a common services
   tunnel area used or intended to be used for the purpose of the
   housing and distribution of utility services to land within and
   outside the area;

“common services tunnel area” or “CST area” means an area
   declared as a common services tunnel area under section 6;

                                         31.12.2021
   Common Services Tunnels

4                   Act 2018                              2020 Ed.

   “Common Services Tunnels Authority” or “CST Authority”, in
      relation to any provision of this Act or CST area, means —

   (a) any CST Authority appointed under section 4 to be
        responsible for the administration of that provision;
        and

   (b) if different CST Authorities are appointed under
        section 4 for different CST areas, the CST Authority
        appointed for that CST area;

   “entrance” or “exit”, in relation to a common services tunnel,
      includes a manhole leading to or from, as the case may be, the
      common services tunnel;

   “land” includes buildings, premises, easements and
      hereditaments of any tenure;

   “occupier” means a person in occupation of any land and
      includes the person having the charge, management or
      control of the land either on his or her own account or as
      an agent of another person;

   “private land” means any land other than public land;

   “public authority” means a body established or constituted by or
      under a public Act to perform or discharge a public function;

   “public land” means any of the following land, whether publicly
      accessible or not:

   (a) State land;

   (b) common property or open space vested in or under
        the care, control or management of the Housing and
        Development Board established under the Housing
        and Development Act 1959 or a Town Council
        established under the Town Councils Act 1988; or

   (c) any land vested in or under the care, control or
       management of any other public authority by the
       operation of written law;
          Common Services Tunnels

2020 Ed.                   Act 2018  5

“utility service” means —

          (a) for electricity —

          (i) the distribution of electricity through an
              electricity network;

          (ii) the transmission of electricity through an
               electricity network;

          (iii) the generation of electricity connected to an
                electricity network; or

          (iv) the provision by a person to another person of
               an electricity connection service;

          (b) for gas —

          (i) the distribution of gas through a gas
              distribution network;

          (ii) the transmission of gas through a gas
               transmission network; or

          (iii) the provision by a person to another person of a
                gas connection service;

          (c) for water —

          (i) the collection or treatment, or both, of water for
              distribution through a water network;

          (ii) the provision by a person to another person of a
               water connection service;

          (iii) the making of a water network available for the
                provision of a water connection service;

          (iv) the distribution of water through a water
               network; or

          (v) the supply of water from a water network by a
               person to the premises of another person for
               consumption or use;

                                     31.12.2021
   Common Services Tunnels

6  Act 2018                 2020 Ed.

   (d) for sewerage —

   (i) the provision by a person to another person of a
       sewerage connection service;

   (ii) the making of a sewerage network available for
        the provision of a sewerage connection service;
        or

   (iii) the provision by a person to another person of a
         sewerage service;

   (e) the provision by a person to another person of a
       broadcasting service (within the meaning of the
       Broadcasting Act 1994) or a telecommunication
       service (within the meaning of the
       Telecommunications Act 1999);

   (f) the provision by a person to another person of the
       service of draining stormwater or surface water, or of
       pneumatic refuse removal; or

   (g) the provision by a person of such other service
        prescribed as a utility service for the purposes of this
        Act;

   “utility services infrastructure” means any cables, wires, lines,
      pipes, or ducts used, or for use, in relation to the provision of
      any utility service, and includes any of the following:

   (a) powerlines, substations and equipment for
        monitoring, distributing, converting, transforming
        or controlling electricity;

   (b) pipelines, meters or equipment (such as pressure
        control devices, excess flow valves, actuators,
        electrical equipment, telemetry equipment and
        protection installations) used, or for use, in relation
        to the transmission or distribution of gas;

   (c) water storages, mains and treatment plants, pumps,
       facilities and equipment for distributing water, or
       monitoring or controlling the distribution of water for
       supply to premises;
                   Common Services Tunnels

2020 Ed.           Act 2018                        7

          (d) sewerage storages, trunk sewers, mains and treatment
               plants, pumps, facilities and equipment for
               conveying sewerage, or monitoring or controlling
               the conveyance of sewerage.

(2) In this Act —

(a) a reference to the maintenance and repair of a common
     services tunnel —

          (i) means maintaining, repairing or improving the
              structure of the common services tunnel, and
              carrying out such other temporary or permanent
              works as may be necessary, to render the common
              services tunnel safe, functional and operational; and

          (ii) includes installing, operating, maintaining, repairing
               and improving any plant, installation, equipment,
               machinery, cables, wires, lines, pipes, drains, ducts
               and other facilities laid, placed, installed or housed
               within the common services tunnel that are —

          (A) utility services infrastructure; or

          (B) used, or for use, in relation to the operation and
               functioning of the common services tunnel
               itself; and

(b) a reference to the maintenance and repair of an ancillary
     facility of a common services tunnel —

          (i) means maintaining, repairing or improving the
              structure of the ancillary facility of the common
              services tunnel, and carrying out such other
              temporary or permanent works as may be
              necessary, to render the ancillary facility of the
              common services tunnel safe, functional and
              operational; and

          (ii) includes installing, operating, maintaining, repairing
               and improving any plant, installation, equipment,
               machinery, cables, wires, lines, pipes, drains, ducts
               and other facilities that are necessary —

                                                   31.12.2021
   Common Services Tunnels

8  Act 2018                 2020 Ed.

   (A) for the use or functioning of the ancillary
        facility; or

   (B) for the operation and functioning of the
        common services tunnel itself.

Purpose of Act

 3. The purpose of this Act is —

       (a) to establish common services tunnel areas;

       (b) to ensure the safe and efficient operation and functionality
            of common services tunnels and any ancillary facility of a
            common services tunnel;

       (c) to require suppliers of utility services to execute
            agreements to use a common services tunnel for the
            purpose of laying, placing or installing, or to house, their
            utility services infrastructure;

       (d) to secure the right of access by authorised officers,
            authorised persons and persons authorised by authorised
            officers to any common services tunnel and any ancillary
            facility of the common services tunnel; and

       (e) to ensure the upkeep of any ancillary facility of a common
            services tunnel by owners and occupiers of land on which
            the ancillary facility is located.

                                    PART 2

                            ADMINISTRATION

Common Services Tunnels Authority
 4.—(1) The Minister may appoint a person to be a Common

Services Tunnels Authority responsible for the administration of this
Act.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Minister may —

       (a) appoint different Common Services Tunnels Authorities to
            be responsible —
          Common Services Tunnels

2020 Ed.  Act 2018                                              9

          (i) for the whole or any provision of this Act, or for
              different regulations made under this Act; and

          (ii) for different common services tunnel areas; and

(b) specify the extent and manner in which the responsibility
     mentioned in paragraph (a) is to be exercised.

 (3) Where a public authority is appointed by the Minister under
subsection (1) to be a CST Authority responsible for the operation of
this Act, for any particular Part or provision of this Act or for any
particular regulations made under this Act, whether in respect of all
common services tunnel areas or any common services tunnel area —

(a) it is the function and duty of the public authority to do so in
     accordance with that subsection, in addition to such
     functions and duties imposed on the public authority
     under any other written law; and

(b) the public authority is deemed to be fulfilling the purposes
     of the Act constituting that public authority, and the
     provisions of that Act apply to the public authority in
     respect of that function and duty.

Authorised officers

 5.—(1) A CST Authority may, by name or office, appoint as an
authorised officer —

       (a) any public officer; or

       (b) any employee of an approved public authority.

 (2) An authorised officer is subject to the direction and control of
the CST Authority that appointed the authorised officer.

 (3) An authorised officer appointed under subsection (1) is deemed
to be a public servant for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

 (4) In subsection (1)(b), “approved public authority” means a
public authority which is approved by the Minister for the purposes of
this section.

                                   31.12.2021
    Common Services Tunnels

10  Act 2018                                    2020 Ed.

    PART 3

    COMMON SERVICES TUNNEL AREAS

Declaration of common services tunnel areas

 6.—(1) The Minister may, from time to time, by notification in the
Gazette, declare an area to be a common services tunnel area.

 (2) The area that may be declared a common services tunnel area
consists of any area within Singapore within which a common
services tunnel and any ancillary facility of the common services
tunnel is built or is proposed to be built.

(3) A notification under subsection (1) must —

    (a) define the limits of the common services tunnel area; or

    (b) state that a plan of the common services tunnel area may be
         inspected at a place and within such time as is specified in
         the notification.

Changes to common services tunnel area

 7.—(1) The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette —

       (a) revoke any declaration made under section 6(1); or

       (b) modify an area declared as a common services tunnel area
            under section 6(1).

 (2) A notification under subsection (1)(b) modifying an area
declared as a common services tunnel area must —

       (a) define the part of the common services tunnel area that is
            modified; or

       (b) provide that a plan of the modification of the common
            services tunnel area may be inspected at a place and within
            such time as is specified in the notification.
          Common Services Tunnels

2020 Ed.  Act 2018                                     11

Notice of declaration and modification of declaration

 8.—(1) Before making any declaration under section 6(1) or
modifying a declaration under section 7(1)(b), the Minister must
give advance notice in the Gazette of the Minister’s intention to make
or modify the declaration.

(2) The notice mentioned in subsection (1) —
      (a) must either —

          (i) define the area that is proposed to be declared as a
              common services tunnel area or the part of common
              services tunnel area that is proposed to be modified;
              or

          (ii) provide that a plan of the proposed common services
               tunnel area or of the part of the common services
               tunnel area proposed to be modified may be
               inspected at a place and within such time as is
               specified in the notice; and

(b) must specify the time (not being less than 28 days after the
     publication of the notice in the Gazette) within which
     written representations with respect to the intended
     declaration or modification of the declaration may be
     made.

 (3) The Minister must consider any written representation that is
made within the time specified in the notice under subsection (2)(b).

 (4) The decision of the Minister after considering any written
representation is final.

                                                       31.12.2021
    Common Services Tunnels

12  Act 2018                                             2020 Ed.

    PART 4

            POWERS IN RELATION TO COMMON
    SERVICES TUNNEL AND ANCILLARY FACILITIES

Power to access common services tunnel

 9.—(1) An authorised person may enter any land situated within a
common services tunnel area in order —

    (a) to carry out any inspection or survey of the common
         services tunnel within that area or any ancillary facility of
         such a common services tunnel; and

    (b) to carry out any work and do all things necessary for —

    (i) the maintenance and repair of the common services
        tunnel within that area or any ancillary facility of
        such a common services tunnel, or both; or

    (ii) the laying, placing, installing, housing, maintenance
         and repair of utility services infrastructure within the
         common services tunnel within that area.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), an authorised person must

not enter any land that is occupied without giving the owner or
occupier of the land at least 7 days’ notice of intention to do so
unless —

    (a) the authorised person is of the opinion that an emergency
         exists which necessitates immediate entry; or

    (b) the entry is required only for the purpose of an inspection
         or a survey.

(3) A notice of intention mentioned in subsection (2) —

    (a) must describe the purpose of the entry and the nature of any
         work to be carried out; and

    (b) is, despite section 22, deemed to be given to and received
         by an owner or occupier of the land if a written notice is
         affixed to a conspicuous part of the land to be entered.
          Common Services Tunnels

2020 Ed.               Act 2018                    13

(4) The authorised person may —

(a) as the occasion requires and without notice, enter and
     re-inspect and re-survey any land in respect of which any
     of the powers contained in subsection (1) have been
     exercised; and

(b) in relation to that land, exercise such powers as often as the
     occasion may require.

 (5) Any authorised person under this section entering any land
must, if so required by the owner or occupier of the land, produce
evidence of the authorised person’s authority before so entering.

 (6) An authorised person is not liable to pay any owner or occupier
of any private land any fee, charge or expense on account of any entry
to the land or of anything done to the land under this section.

(7) In this section —

“authorised person” means —

          (a) an authorised officer; or

          (b) any of the following persons authorised in writing by
               an authorised officer for the purposes of this section:

          (i) a public officer;

          (ii) an employee of a public authority;

          (iii) a contractor;

          (iv) a supplier of utility services which utility
               services infrastructure are, or are required to
               be, laid, placed, installed or housed within a
               common services tunnel;

          (v) an employee or agent of a contractor mentioned
               in sub-paragraph (iii) or of a supplier of utility
               services mentioned in sub-paragraph (iv);

“contractor” means a person appointed or engaged by a CST
   Authority or a public authority to do one or both of the
   following:

                                                   31.12.2021
    Common Services Tunnels

14  Act 2018                 2020 Ed.

    (a) to carry out inspections or surveys of a common
         services tunnel or any ancillary facility of a common
         services tunnel;

    (b) to carry out work, and do all things necessary, for the
         maintenance and repair of a common services tunnel
         or any ancillary facility of a common services tunnel.

Power to prevent obstruction to ancillary structures of
common services tunnel

 10.—(1) A person must not, without the written approval of an
authorised officer —

       (a) erect or place any structure or object across or within any
            ancillary structure of a common services tunnel that is
            within a common services tunnel area; or

       (b) obstruct or cause an obstruction to any ancillary structure
            of a common services tunnel that is within a common
            services tunnel area.

 (2) If any structure or object is erected or placed, or any obstruction
is caused, in contravention of subsection (1), an authorised officer
may by order in writing require a specified person, within such time
as may be specified in the order, to —

       (a) remove the structure, object or obstruction; and

       (b) return the ancillary structure of the common services
            tunnel to its original state and condition.

 (3) An authorised officer may cause the structure, object or
obstruction mentioned in subsection (1) to be removed —

       (a) if the specified person fails to comply with the order under
            subsection (2); or

       (b) if access to or through the ancillary structure of a common
            services tunnel is required immediately.

 (4) The cost of removing a structure, object or obstruction may be
recovered by the authorised officer as a civil debt in a court of
competent jurisdiction —
          Common Services Tunnels

2020 Ed.  Act 2018                 15

(a) where the structure, object or obstruction was removed
     under subsection (3)(a), from the specified person to whom
     the order under subsection (2) was served; or

(b) where the structure, object or obstruction was removed
     under subsection (3)(b), from the owner or occupier of the
     land from which the structure, object or obstruction was
     removed.

 (5) A person who contravenes subsection (1), or a specified person
who fails to comply with an order under subsection (2), shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (6) In this section, “specified person” means any one or more of the
following:

(a) a person who erected or placed the structure or object, or
     who obstructs or is causing or caused the obstruction,
     mentioned in subsection (1);

(b) the owner or occupier of the land within a common
     services tunnel area on or in which any ancillary structure
     of a common services tunnel is located;

          (c) any other person having the power to remove the structure,
              object or obstruction mentioned in subsection (1).

 (7) For the purposes of this section, a reference to a person or
specified person does not include the Government, a public authority,
or a person acting on behalf of the Government or a public authority.

Power to require upkeep of ancillary structures

 11.—(1) An owner or occupier of land within a common services
tunnel area on or in which any ancillary structure of a common
services tunnel is located must take reasonable measures to keep and
maintain the ancillary structure of a common services tunnel within
the owner’s or occupier’s land in good and serviceable repair.

                                   31.12.2021
    Common Services Tunnels

16  Act 2018                 2020 Ed.

 (2) An authorised officer may by order in writing require the owner
or occupier of the land mentioned in subsection (1) to take such
measures and carry out such works, within the time specified in the
order, as the authorised officer thinks reasonably necessary to keep
and maintain any ancillary structure of a common services tunnel
within the owner’s or occupier’s land in good and serviceable repair.

 (3) The cost of any measures or works required to be carried out by
an order under subsection (2) must be borne by the owner or occupier
of the land on whom the order is served.

 (4) An owner or occupier of the land who, without reasonable
excuse, contravenes subsection (1) or fails to comply with an order
under subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every
day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (5) Where an owner or occupier of the land on whom an order under
subsection (2) is served fails to comply with the order, an authorised
officer, or a person authorised by the authorised officer for the
purposes of this section, may, at any reasonable time, or at such other
time as may be agreed with the owner or occupier of the land, enter
the land, and take such measures and execute such work as may be
necessary to secure compliance with the order but without affecting
any proceedings that may be taken against that owner or occupier
under subsection (4).

 (6) Any expenses reasonably incurred by the authorised officer, or
by the person authorised by the authorised officer, under
subsection (5) may be recovered from the owner or occupier of the
land who failed to comply with the order served under subsection (2)
as a civil debt in a court of competent jurisdiction.

 (7) For the purposes of this section, a reference to the owner or
occupier of land does not include the Government or a public
authority.
          Common Services Tunnels

2020 Ed.  Act 2018                 17

Engineering works within common services tunnel protection
zone

 12.—(1) A person must not, without the prior written approval of
an authorised officer, carry out any engineering works within a
common services tunnel protection zone.

 (2) The approval of an authorised officer under subsection (1) may
be subject to such conditions as the authorised officer considers
necessary, including any condition —

(a) to prevent damage by those engineering works to any
     common services tunnel, or any ancillary facility of the
     common services tunnel, or both; and

(b) to ensure the safe and efficient operation and functioning
     of any common services tunnel, or any ancillary facility of
     the common services tunnel, or both.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (2), the conditions that may be
imposed by an authorised officer include the construction, in
accordance with the specifications of the authorised officer, of such
temporary or permanent structures in addition to or in place of any
existing part of any ancillary facility of the common services tunnel.

 (4) A modification to an ancillary facility of the common services
tunnel, or a replacement of an ancillary facility of the common
services tunnel, made pursuant to a condition of approval under
subsection (2) is to be treated as if it were one and the same as the
original ancillary facility of the common services tunnel, and as
subject to this Act as such.

 (5) Where any works or other activity is carried out in
contravention of subsection (1) or any condition imposed under
subsection (2), an authorised officer may, by order in writing, require
any specified person to do one or more of the following:

(a) immediately stop carrying on those engineering works,
     either indefinitely or for a period specified in the order;

                                   31.12.2021
    Common Services Tunnels

18  Act 2018                 2020 Ed.

    (b) carry out, within a time specified in the order, such works
         as the authorised officer thinks necessary to protect the
         common services tunnel and any ancillary facility of the
         common services tunnel;

    (c) return the common services tunnel, and any ancillary
        facility of the common services tunnel, to its original state
        and condition within a time specified in the order.

 (6) Where a specified person on whom an order under
subsection (5)(b) or (c) is served fails to comply with the order, an
authorised officer, or a person authorised by the authorised officer for
the purposes of this section, may, at any reasonable time, or at such
other time as may be agreed with the owner or occupier of the land to
which the order relates, enter the land, and take such measures and
execute such work as may be necessary to secure compliance with the
order but without affecting any proceedings that may be taken against
that specified person under subsection (8).

 (7) Any expenses reasonably incurred by the authorised officer, or
by the person authorised by the authorised officer, under
subsection (6) may be recovered from the person who failed to
comply with the order served under subsection (5)(b) or (c) as a civil
debt in a court of competent jurisdiction.

 (8) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or fails to comply with
any condition imposed under subsection (2), or a specified person
who fails to comply with an order under subsection (5), shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.
          Common Services Tunnels

2020 Ed.               Act 2018               19

(9) In this section —

“common services tunnel protection zone” means an area within
   the CST area for a common services tunnel —

          (a) declared by a CST Authority for the CST area as an
               area where engineering works may affect the safe and
               efficient operation and functionality of the common
               services tunnel or any ancillary facility of the
               common services tunnel; and

          (b) made available to a person seeking to carry out
               engineering works in the CST area in the prescribed
               manner;

“engineering works” means any kind of construction work that
   may affect the structural integrity of a common services
   tunnel or any ancillary facility of a common services tunnel,
   or its safe and efficient operation and functioning, and
   includes —

          (a) building works as defined in section 2(1) of the
               Building Control Act 1989;

          (b) any act of excavating earth, rock or other material (by
               whatever means) in connection with —

          (i) any work for or relating to the construction,
              reconstruction, extension, renovation,
              alteration, demolition or repair of any
              building, structure, road, railway, bridge,
              viaduct, flyover, drain or sewer;

          (ii) any work for or relating to the laying,
               inspecting, repairing or renewing of any
               main, pipe, cable, fittings or other apparatus; or

          (iii) any soil investigation work;

          (c) any act of boring, dredging, jacking, levelling, piling
              or tunnelling on or under any land or street by any
              mechanical means;

          (d) the driving or sinking of any earth rod, casing or tube
               into the ground; and

                                              31.12.2021
    Common Services Tunnels

20  Act 2018                 2020 Ed.

    (e) any storage or placement of large construction
        equipment, construction materials and stockpiling
        of earth or heavy objects;

    “specified person” means any one or more of the following:

    (a) the person who does or causes or permits to be done
         any of the works mentioned in subsection (1);

    (b) the owner or occupier of the land on which the works
         mentioned in subsection (1) are carried on.

 (10) For the purposes of this section, a reference to a person or
specified person does not include the Government, a public authority,
or a person acting on behalf of the Government or the public
authority.

Mandating use of common services tunnel

 13.—(1) Without limiting section 12, a supplier of utility services
must not lay, place or install, or cause to be laid, placed or installed,
on, under or over any public land within a common services tunnel
area any utility services infrastructure without the written approval of
an authorised officer.

 (2) An application for written approval under subsection (1) must
be made in such manner as may be determined by the authorised
officer from whom approval is sought.

 (3) An application for written approval under subsection (1) may be
granted subject to such conditions as the authorised officer considers
fit.

 (4) If an authorised officer considers that it is necessary for the
supplier’s utility services infrastructure, or any part of the supplier’s
utility services infrastructure, to be laid, placed or installed, or
otherwise housed, within a common services tunnel of the common
services tunnel area, the authorised officer may require, as a condition
precedent for the grant of written approval under subsection (1), that
the supplier of utility services execute an agreement for the use of the
common services tunnel for purpose for laying, placing or installing,
or otherwise housing, the utility services infrastructure with —
          Common Services Tunnels

2020 Ed.  Act 2018                        21

(a) the Government; or

(b) if the common services tunnel is owned by a person other
     than the Government, that person.

(5) A supplier of utility services who —

(a) contravenes subsection (1); or

(b) breaches any condition subject to which written approval
     was granted under subsection (3),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

 (6) In this section, “supplier of utility services” does not include the
Government or a public authority.

                                    PART 5

                  OFFENCES AND ENFORCEMENT

Penalty for obstructing authorised officer, etc., in course of
duty

 14. Any person who —

       (a) hinders, obstructs or delays an authorised officer, an
            authorised person or other person authorised by an
            authorised officer in the performance or execution of his
            or her duty or of any thing which he or she is empowered or
            required to do under this Act; or

       (b) interferes with any works authorised or required to be done
            by any authorised officer, authorised person or other
            person authorised by an authorised officer under this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                          31.12.2021
    Common Services Tunnels

22                   Act 2018  2020 Ed.

Power to require information in respect of contraventions

 15.—(1) Where it appears to an authorised officer that there may
have been a contravention of any provision of this Act, the authorised
officer may serve an information notice to require any person who
appears to the authorised officer to be acquainted with the
circumstances of the case to furnish the authorised officer, within
such time as may be specified in the notice, with information relating
to that case which is in the possession or within the knowledge of that
person.

 (2) An information notice under subsection (1) is complied with by
giving the required information in writing to the authorised officer.

 (3) A person who fails to comply with any information notice under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

(4) If any person —

    (a) makes any statement purporting to comply with a
         requirement of an information notice which the person
         knows to be false or misleading in a material particular; or

    (b) recklessly makes such a statement which is false or
         misleading in a material particular,

that person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

Offences by corporations

 16.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and
          Common Services Tunnels

2020 Ed.  Act 2018                                          23

(b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

          (i) an officer of the corporation, or a member of the
              corporation (in the case where the affairs of the
              corporation are managed by its members); or

      (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
            corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
            of the corporation in relation to the commission of
            the offence; and

(b) who —

          (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
              effect the commission of the offence;

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the corporation; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

                                                          31.12.2021
    Common Services Tunnels

24                     Act 2018                       2020 Ed.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

    (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

    (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
         regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

    “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
       meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
       Act 2005;

    “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
       partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
       officer of the corporation, and includes —

    (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

    (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
         members, any of those members as if the member
         were a director of the corporation;

    “state of mind” of a person includes —

    (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
         of the person; and

    (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
         or purpose.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 17.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            the partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of
            his or her actual or apparent authority; and
              Common Services Tunnels

2020 Ed.      Act 2018                             25

(b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

(a) who is —

          (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
              member of its governing body;

          (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

          (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                unincorporated association or the partnership and in
                a position to influence the conduct of that
                unincorporated association or that partnership (as
                the case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                offence; and

(b) who —

          (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
              effect the commission of the offence;

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the unincorporated
               association or partnership; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the unincorporated association or the
                partnership (or an offence of the same type) would be
                or is being committed, and failed to take all
                reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission
                of that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is that unincorporated
association or that partnership, and shall be liable on conviction to
be punished accordingly.

                                                   31.12.2021
    Common Services Tunnels

26                     Act 2018                       2020 Ed.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof as that
unincorporated association or that partnership would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

    (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

    (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
         regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

    “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
       a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
       member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
       and includes —

    (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
         president, secretary or member of a committee of the
         unincorporated association; and

            (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;
    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

    “state of mind” of a person includes —

    (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
         of the person; and

    (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
         or purpose.
             Common Services Tunnels

2020 Ed.     Act 2018                 27

Injunctions

 18.—(1) Where an authorised officer considers it necessary or
expedient for any actual or apprehended breach of this Act to be
restrained by injunction, the authorised officer may apply to the
General Division of the High Court for an injunction, whether or not
the authorised officer has exercised or is proposing to exercise any of
his or her other powers under this Part or Part 4.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) On an application under subsection (1), the General Division of
the High Court need not require from the authorised officer any
undertaking in damages.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) On an application under subsection (1), the General Division of
the High Court may grant such an injunction as it thinks appropriate
for the purpose of restraining the breach.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Composition of offences

 19.—(1) An authorised officer may compound any offence under
this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting
from a person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence
a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                      31.12.2021
                    Common Services Tunnels

28                  Act 2018                              2020 Ed.

                    PART 6

                    MISCELLANEOUS

Appeal to Minister

 20.—(1) Any person who is aggrieved by any of the following
decisions of an authorised officer may, within 14 days after the date
on which notice of the decision is served on the person, appeal to the
Minister:

    (a) the refusal to give written approval under section 10(1),
         12(1) or 13(1);

    (b) an order under section 10(2), 11(2) or 12(5);

    (c) the imposition of any condition of written approval under
        section 12(2) or 13(3).

 (2) Despite any appeal made under subsection (1), the order or
decision appealed against takes effect and must be complied with
unless otherwise ordered by the Minister.

 (3) The Minister may, after considering the appeal, dismiss or allow
the appeal, unconditionally or subject to such conditions as the
Minister thinks fit.

 (4) The Minister may, in considering an appeal under this section,
give the appellant an opportunity to make representations in writing.

(5) The decision of the Minister in any appeal is final.

Minister may designate others to hear appeals

 21.—(1) The Minister may designate any of the following persons
to hear and determine, in the Minister’s place, any appeal under
section 20:

       (a) the Second Minister, if any, for his or her Ministry;

       (b) any Minister of State, including a Senior Minister of State,
            for his or her Ministry;

       (c) any Parliamentary Secretary, including a Senior
            Parliamentary Secretary, to his or her Ministry.
          Common Services Tunnels

2020 Ed.  Act 2018                 29

 (2) A reference to the Minister in section 20 includes a reference to
a person designated under subsection (1).

Service of documents

 22.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
            if no address is so specified, to the individual’s residential
            address or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual; or

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer of the
            partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the partnership’s business address;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
            partnership’s business address; or

                                   31.12.2021
    Common Services Tunnels

30  Act 2018                 2020 Ed.

    (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
         address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

    (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
         body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
         limited liability partnership’s manager;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the body corporate’s or unincorporated association’s
         registered office or principal office in Singapore;

    (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the body
        corporate’s or unincorporated association’s registered
        office or principal office in Singapore; or

    (d) by sending it by email to the body corporate’s or
         unincorporated association’s last email address.

(5) Service of a document under this section takes effect —

    (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
         successful transmission is received, on the day of
         transmission;

    (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
         becomes capable of being retrieved by the person; and

    (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
        after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
        undelivered).

 (6) A document may be served on a person under this Act by email
only with that person’s prior written consent.

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.
          Common Services Tunnels

2020 Ed.               Act 2018    31

(8) In this section —

“business address” means —

          (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
               last known place of business in Singapore; or

          (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
               liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
               last known place of business in Singapore;

“last email address” means —

          (a) the last email address given by the addressee
               concerned to the person giving or serving the
               document as the email address for the service of
               documents under this Act; or

          (b) the last email address of the addressee concerned
               known to the person giving or serving the document;

“residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
   place of residence in Singapore.

Protection from personal liability

 23. No liability shall lie personally against an authorised officer, an
authorised person, or other person authorised by an authorised officer
who, acting in good faith and with reasonable care, does or omits to
do anything in the execution or purported execution of this Act.

Exemption

 24. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person
or land, or any class of persons or land, from all or any of the
provisions of this Act, either generally or in a particular case and
subject to such conditions as the Minister may impose.

Regulations

 25.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for carrying out or
giving effect to the purposes and provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may make
regulations for or with respect to any of the following matters:

                                   31.12.2021
    Common Services Tunnels

32                     Act 2018                         2020 Ed.

    (a) the procedure for appeals under this Act;

    (b) the fees and charges to be paid in respect of approvals and
         applications for approval under this Act, and otherwise in
         connection with the administration of this Act, and the
         waiver, reduction and refund of such fees and charges.

(3) The regulations —

    (a) may be of general or specific application; and

    (b) may provide that any contravention of any provision of the
         regulations shall be an offence punishable with a fine not
         exceeding $5,000 or with imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 6 months or with both.
                    LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

               COMMON SERVICES TUNNELS
                              ACT 2018

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 17 of 2018 — Common Services Tunnels Act 2018

Bill                  : 12/2018

First Reading         : 27 February 2018

Second and Third Readings : 19 March 2018

Commencement          : 6 November 2020

2. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 29(1) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 29(1))

                                                      31.12.2021
                             ii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
