         GAMBLING CONTROL ACT 2022

         (No. 15 of 2022)

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
     1.  Purposes of Act
     2.  General interpretation
     3.  Meaning of “gambling”
     4.  Meanings of “betting” and “totalisator”
     5.  Meanings of “conducting a betting operation” and associated
     6.  expressions
         Meanings of “game of chance”, “gaming activity” and
     7.  associated terms
         Meanings of “conducts gaming” and associated terms
     8.  Meanings of “lottery” and associated expressions
     9.  Meaning of “conducting a lottery”
   10.   Meanings of “remote gambling” and associated terms
   11.   Meaning of “social gambling”
   12.   Meaning of “underaged individual”
   13.   Meaning of “money equivalent”
   14.   Meaning of “possession”
   15.   Meanings of “gambling advertisement”, “inducement to
   16.   gamble” and “publish in Singapore”
         Application of Act
   17.

                                        PART 2

                                      OFFENCES

       Division 1 — Unlawful betting operations, gaming or lotteries

18. Unlawful conduct of betting operations, gaming or lotteries
19. Betting operation, etc., outside of approved gambling venue
20. Gambling with unlicensed gambling service provider or at

         unlawful gambling place

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
2  NO. 15 OF 2022

Section
   21. Having financial interest in unlawful gambling service
   22. Conducting games, lotteries, etc., that are not approved

                        Division 2 — Unlawful gambling places

   23. Owning, etc., place used for unlawful gambling
   24. Offence of organising gambling place
   25. Offence of financing unlawful gambling place
   26. Offence of being in unlawful gambling place

                   Division 3 — Gaming machine‑related offences

   27. Prohibited or unapproved gaming machine use
   28. Proxy gambling outside of gaming machine room
   29. Supplying prohibited or unapproved gaming machines

                  Division 4 — Protection of underaged individuals
                                   and excluded persons

   30. Gambling with underaged individuals
   31. Gambling by underaged individuals and excluded persons
   32. Offence by underaged individual or excluded person entering

            gambling venue, etc.
   33. Offence by underaged individual using false evidence of age,

            etc.
   34. Inducement to underaged individuals to gamble
   35. Unlawful employment of young person in gambling

                               Division 5 — Other offences

   36. Possession of unlawful gambling instruments
   37. Providing credit for unlawful gambling
   38. Unlawful interference with approved gaming machines, etc.
   39. Unlawful interference with requisite surveillance system

                    Division 6 — Forfeiture and other punishments

   40. Forfeiture of seized articles, money, etc.
   41. Forfeiture on conviction of unlawful gambling winnings

                                            PART 3

                          PRESUMPTIONS AND EVIDENCE

   42. Presumptions in respect of unlawful gambling
   43. Presumptions in respect of conduct of betting operations,

            lotteries, etc.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
         GAMBLING CONTROL                                           3

Section  Presumption of using, etc., of premises as gambling place
         Presumption of assisting
   44.   Presumptions relating to inducements to gamble
   45.   Evidence
   46.   Special provision for offences involving remote gambling
   47.   Certain witnesses exempt from liability
   48.   Protection of informants
   49.   Abetment not affected
   50.
   51.

                                        PART 4

                                     LICENSING

                               Division 1 — Licences

52. Types of licences
53. Application for or to renew licence
54. Grant of licences
55. Suitability assessment
56. Licence validity
57. Conditions of licence
58. Modifying conditions of licence
59. Restriction on transfer and surrender of licence

                          Division 2 — Class licences for
                           lower‑risk gambling services

60. Class licences
61. Variation and revocation of class licence
62. Conditions applicable to class licensee

                                        PART 5

              GAMBLING VENUE AND GAMES APPROVAL

                     Division 1 — Gambling venue approval

63. Application for approval of gambling venue
64. Grant of gambling venue approval
65. Validity of gambling venue approval
66. Conditions of gambling venue approval
67. Modification of conditions of gambling venue approval

                        Division 2 — Game approval, etc.

68. No application to gaming machine games

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
4        NO. 15 OF 2022

Section  Application for game or game rules, etc., approval
         Grant of approval of game or game rules, etc.
   69.   Validity of approval of game or game rules, etc.
   70.
   71.

         Division 3 — Gaming machine, etc., approval

   72. Application of Division
   73. Application for approval of gaming machine, etc.
   74. Approval of gaming machine, etc.
   75. Validity of gaming machine approval
   76. Conditions of gaming machine, etc., approval
   77. Restriction on transfer of gaming machine, etc., approval
   78. Corrective action needed for gaming machine, etc.

                                           PART 6

                             HARM MINIMISATION AND
                      INTEGRITY PROTECTION MEASURES

              Division 1 — Protecting gambling operations integrity
                           and preventing criminal influence

   79. Entry ban by Commissioner of Police, etc., and Authority
   80. Opportunity to be heard not required
   81. Effect of entry ban

                   Division 2 — Supporting excluded persons, etc.

   82. Licensee must bar excluded persons, etc., from gambling
   83. Licensee empowered to remove or detain excluded persons, etc.
   84. Licensee may refuse to pay winnings to underaged individual or

            excluded person

                    Division 3 — Unlawful gambling advertising

   85. Advertising unlawful gambling
   86. Defences
   87. Corrective measures relating to unlawful gambling

            advertisements

                                           PART 7
                             REGULATORY SANCTIONS

                                  Division 1 — Licences
   88. Suspension or revocation, etc., of licence or class licence

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
         GAMBLING CONTROL                                              5

Section  Regulatory action can continue despite licence expiry, etc.
         Proceedings for regulatory action
   89.   Immediate regulatory action against licensee
   90.   Directive regarding responsible executive or key officer
   91.
   92.

         Division 2 — Approved gambling venue and games

93. Suspension or cancellation, etc., of approved gambling venue
94. Suspension or cancellation, etc., of approved game, etc.
95. Proceedings for regulatory action in respect of approved

         gambling venue or games

         Division 3 — Gaming machine, etc., approval

96. Suspension or cancellation, etc., of approval for gaming
         machine, etc.

97. Proceedings for regulatory action in respect of approved gaming
         machine

                                          PART 8

                      RECONSIDERATION AND APPEALS

 98. Interpretation of this Part
 99. Reconsideration by initial decision‑maker of appealable

          decision
100. Appeal to Minister
101. Decision on appeal
102. Designate may hear appeal in place of Minister

                                          PART 9

                                   ENFORCEMENT

                                 Division 1 — General

103. Purpose for which powers are exercisable
104. Saving for powers under other laws

                Division 2 — Enforcement powers for underaged
                     individuals or excluded persons gambling

105. Power to require particulars from underaged individuals, etc.
106. Proof of age, etc., may be required for section 32 or 33 offence
107. Power to seize winnings

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
6        NO. 15 OF 2022

         Division 3 — Other enforcement powers

Section  Powers of entry, etc., at premises
         Powers in relation to conveyances
  108.   Power to obtain information
  109.   Power of examination
  110.   Power of arrest
  111.   Bail and bond
  112.   Obstructing police officer or authorised officer
  112A.  Other offences
  113.   Composition of offences
  114.
  115.

         Division 4 — Special provisions for remote gambling

   116. Definitions for Division
   117. Blocking of access to online remote gambling services, etc.
   118. Blocking of payment transactions
   119. Review of blocking orders
   120. Immunity for complying with blocking orders

                                            PART 10

                                     ADMINISTRATION

   121. Administration of Act by Authority
   122. Authorised officers
   123. Compliance officers

                                            PART 11

                                     MISCELLANEOUS

   124. Unlawful gambling place a public nuisance, etc.
   125. Standards for licensees and class licensees, etc.
   126. Regulations
   127. Incorporation by reference, etc.
   128. Exemption
   129. Presentation to Parliament
   130. Offences by corporations
   131. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   132. Jurisdiction of courts
   133. Service of documents

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                                  7

                                           PART 12

               AMENDMENTS TO CASINO CONTROL ACT 2006

Section
  134. Amendments concerning exclusion orders
  135. Amendments concerning offences, etc.

                                           PART 13

                  REPEALS, AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS
                               AND FINAL PROVISIONS

  136. Amendment of Civil Law Act 1909
  137. Amendment and repeal of Private Lotteries Act 2011
  138. Amendment of Road Vehicles (Special Powers) Act 1960
  139. Repeal
  140. Saving and transitional provisions

            First Schedule — Subject matter of regulations
            Second Schedule — Saving and transitional provisions

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
8  NO. 15 OF 2022

An Act to consolidate the law on the suppression of various forms of
  unlawful gambling and the regulation of authorised gambling
  services outside of casinos, to repeal the Betting Act 1960, the
  Common Gaming Houses Act 1961, the Private Lotteries Act 2011
  and the Remote Gambling Act 2014, and to make related and
  consequential amendments to the Casino Control Act 2006 and
  certain other Acts.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          9

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the Gambling Control Act 2022 and comes into
operation on a date that the Minister appoints by notification in the
Gazette.

Purposes of Act

 2. The purposes of this Act are —

       (a) to authorise some gambling and prohibit the rest as
            unlawful gambling;

       (b) to prohibit advertising of unlawful gambling;

       (c) to minimise social harm associated with gambling,
            including problem gambling;

       (d) to ensure the integrity and fairness of gambling and ban
            irresponsible gambling products and practices; and

       (e) to limit opportunities for crime or dishonesty associated
            with gambling and the conduct of gambling.

General interpretation

 3.—(1) In any provision of this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires —

      “a point” includes a mobile or potentially mobile point, whether
         on land, underground, in the atmosphere, underwater or
         anywhere else;

      “applicant” means an applicant for or to renew a licence;

      “approved gambling venue”, for a licensee, means any place or
         premises approved under section 64 as an approved gambling
         venue for the licensee to use in connection with providing a
         gambling service authorised by the licence thereof;

      “authorised officer”, in relation to any provision of this Act,
         means an individual who is appointed under section 122 to

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
10  NO. 15 OF 2022

       perform any function or exercise any power under that
       provision;

    “Authority” means the Gambling Regulatory Authority of
       Singapore, which is the Casino Regulatory Authority of
       Singapore continued and renamed under section 3 of the
       Gambling Regulatory Authority of Singapore Act 2022;

    “business” includes —

            (a) a venture or concern in trade or commerce, whether
                 or not conducted on a regular, repetitive or
                 continuous basis; and

            (b) any business, whether or not carried on for profit,

       and the fact that an unincorporated association provides
       services to its members does not prevent those services from
       being services provided in the course of business;

    “casino” means any premises in Singapore that is covered by a
       casino licence granted under section 49 of the Casino Control
       Act 2006;

    “casino gambling” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
       Casino Control Act 2006;

                                                                           [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

    “category 1 key officer”, in relation to an applicant or a licensee,
       means an individual who is within a class of key officers
       prescribed to be category 1 key officers of such an applicant
       or a licensee;

    “category 2 key officer”, in relation to an applicant or a licensee,
       means an individual who is within a class of key officers
       prescribed to be category 2 key officers of such an applicant
       or a licensee;

    “chief executive”, in relation to a licensee, means an individual
       (by whatever name described) who —

            (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
                 arrangement with, the licensee; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          11

        (b) is principally responsible for the management and
             conduct of the business of the licensee insofar as it
             relates to providing a gambling service,

   and includes an individual for the time being performing all
   or any of the functions or duties of a chief executive;

“class licence” means a class licence determined under an order
   made under section 60(1) and as from time to time varied
   under section 61;

“class licensee” means a person to which a class licence applies;

“communication device” means a machine, device or thing
   designed or capable of being used for —

        (a) sending or receiving oral messages or messages in
             writing, voice calls or video calls;

        (b) sending or receiving electronic documents;

        (c) sending or receiving still or moving images;

        (d) sending or receiving audio or video files; or

        (e) providing access to the Internet,

   using any technology (including remote communication
   technology), and includes a mobile phone and any wireless
   handheld device (such as a tablet computer) or wearable
   device (such as a smart watch);

“compliance officer” means an individual who is appointed
   under section 123 as a compliance officer;

“computer server” means a computer that is capable of —

        (a) communicating with another computer; and

        (b) providing to that other computer —

               (i) access to a database;

               (ii) transaction‑based services; or

              (iii) software applications;

“conducting a betting operation” has the meaning given by
   section 6;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
12  NO. 15 OF 2022

    “conducting a lottery” has the meaning given by section 10;

    “conducts gaming” has the meaning given by section 8;

    “contractor”, in relation to any person, means —

            (a) a person engaged by another person (P) otherwise
                 than under a contract of service to engage in any
                 conduct; or

            (b) a direct or an indirect subcontractor engaged by a
                 contractor mentioned in paragraph (a) when the
                 subcontractor is working under the direct or indirect
                 direction of P as to the manner in which the work is
                 carried out;

    “convey” means carriage on any conveyance (whether or not in
       the course of a business), and includes any operation
       incidental to the whole course of carriage, such as loading,
       unloading and storage in transit;

    “conveyance” means any aircraft, train, vehicle, vessel or other
       mode of transport, whether of passengers or goods or both;

    “corporation” means a body corporate formed or incorporated or
       existing in or outside Singapore, and includes any foreign
       company within the meaning of the Companies Act 1967;

    “credit” includes any form of financial accommodation;

    “defined work”, in relation to an approved gambling venue or a
       gaming machine room of a licensee, means —

            (a) to deliver any goods, provide any services or perform
                 any work (whether as a contractor or employee) that
                 is connected to the business, undertaking or work of
                 the licensee carried on at the approved gambling
                 venue or a gaming machine room;

            (b) to seek a contract of employment or contract for
                 service with the licensee; or

            (c) to execute an order of a court or a direction given by
                 or on behalf of a public officer or a public authority in
                 exercise of a power under any written law;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          13

“director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“document” means any thing in which information or material
   of any description is recorded;

“electronic service” means —

        (a) a service that allows end‑users to access information
             or material using a broadcasting service or a
             telecommunication service for carrying messages or
             other information or material (whether between
             persons and persons, things and things or persons
             and things); or

        (b) a service that delivers information or material to
             persons having equipment appropriate for receiving
             that information or material, where the delivery of the
             service is by a broadcasting service or
             telecommunication service described in
             paragraph (a);

“engage in conduct” means —

        (a) to do an act or omit to do an act —

               (i) on a single occasion; or

               (ii) on a number of occasions over a period of time;
                    or

        (b) to both do an act and omit to do an act —

               (i) on a single occasion; or

               (ii) on a number of occasions over a period of time;

“entity” means —

        (a) a body corporate (including a limited liability
             partnership);

        (b) an unincorporated association;

        (c) a partnership;

        (d) a body of individuals who together form a body; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
14  NO. 15 OF 2022

            (e) a person other than an individual;

    “entry ban” means an entry ban made under section 79(1) or (3);

    “event” includes a contingency relating to an event;

    “excluded person” means an individual who is subject to —

            (a) a family exclusion order, provisional family
                 exclusion order or third party exclusion order made
                 under Part 10 of the Casino Control Act 2006 against
                 the individual;

            (b) section 165A of the Casino Control Act 2006;

            (c) self-exclusion under section 165AA of the Casino
                 Control Act 2006; or

            (d) an entry ban made against the individual;

                                                                           [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

    “exercise of skill” includes a display of knowledge;

    “financial benefit” means any thing of economic value, and
       includes property and services;

    “gambling” has the meaning given by section 4;

    “gambling agency agreement” means an agreement between a
       licensee or a class licensee and another person —

            (a) appointing the other person as a gambling service
                 agent of the licensee or class licensee (as the case
                 may be) for the provision of a gambling service
                 authorised by the licensee’s licence or the class
                 licence of the class licensee;

            (b) dealing with the gambling service agent’s authority;
                 and

            (c) stating the conditions under which the person acts as,
                 and remains as, an agent of the licensee or class
                 licensee, as the case may be;

    “gambling article” means —

            (a) any machine, apparatus, appliance, equipment,
                 instrument, communication device or other device,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          15

             accessory or any other thing (whether or not of a
             similar kind), that —

               (i) is used, apparently used, likely to be used or
                    capable of being used in conducting, or in
                    connection with conducting, a betting
                    operation, gaming or a lottery; or

               (ii) is evidence of, or signifies participation in,
                    gambling or a right to participate in gambling
                    that is not social gambling; or

        (b) any list, card, ticket, voucher, accounts or other
             document that —

               (i) is used, apparently used, likely to be used or
                    capable of being used, in conducting, or in
                    connection with conducting, a betting
                    operation, gaming or a lottery; or

               (ii) is evidence of, or signifies participation in,
                    gambling or a right to participate in gambling
                    that is not social gambling,

   whether or not it is ordinarily used for some other purpose;

“gambling ban”, in relation to an individual, means —

        (a) a family exclusion order, provisional family
             exclusion order or third party exclusion order made
             under Part 10 of the Casino Control Act 2006 against
             the individual;

        (b) section 165A of the Casino Control Act 2006 where
             applicable to the individual; or

        (c) an entry ban made against the individual;

                                                                       [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

“gambling service” means any of the following services,
   including such a service provided through a gambling
   service agent:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
16  NO. 15 OF 2022

    (a) a service comprising wholly or in part of —

           (i) the placing, making, receiving, accepting or
                negotiating of bets;

          (ii) operating a betting exchange or betting
                information centre;

          (iii) operating a totalisator;

          (iv) organising pool betting;

           (v) matching gamblers;

          (vi) laying or offering odds; or

         (vii) offering an opportunity to or otherwise
                facilitating others to bet in accordance with
                arrangements made by the service provider;

    (b) a service for the conduct of a lottery;

    (c) a service for the supply of lottery tickets;

    (d) a service —

           (i) for others to play a game of chance; or

          (ii) offering an opportunity to or otherwise
                facilitating others to play a game of chance,

    (d) for a prize in accordance with arrangements made by
         the service provider;

    (e) a service of controlling or operating a computer
         server —

           (i) in Singapore that enables any game of chance
                to be played by others in Singapore or
                elsewhere by remote communication for a
                prize; or

          (ii) in Singapore or elsewhere that enables any
                game of chance to be played by others in
                Singapore by remote communication for a
                prize;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          17

        (f) a service of making available to others any gaming
             machine for the purpose of gambling;

“gambling service agent”, in relation to a licensee or class
   licensee, means a person who is, under a gambling agency
   agreement, appointed as an agent of the licensee or class
   licensee in relation to any gambling service that —

        (a) is provided by the licensee or class licensee; and

        (b) is specified in that agreement;

“gambling venue” means any place or premises in Singapore
   used or to be used in connection with conducting a betting
   operation, gaming or a lottery, but excludes the following:

        (a) any casino;

        (b) any place or premises in Singapore that is used
             exclusively to contain a computer server used for
             conducting a betting operation, gaming or a lottery;

“gambling venue approval” means an approval that —

        (a) is granted under section 64 to a licensee in respect of
             a place or premises as an approved gambling venue
             for the licensee to use in connection with providing a
             gambling service authorised by the licence thereof;
             and

        (b) is in force;

“granted” or “grant”, for a licence or gambling venue approval,
   includes —

        (a) granted or grant on renewal; or

        (b) treated as granted under the Second Schedule;

“home”, of an individual, means the individual’s ordinary place
   of residence in Singapore;

“IMDA” means the Info‑communications Media Development
   Authority established by section 3 of the
   Info‑communications Media Development Authority
   Act 2016;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
18  NO. 15 OF 2022

    “information or material” means information or material in any
       form, such as (but not limited to) —

            (a) oral, audible, written, electronic or digital form;

            (b) words or symbols, or visual, pictorial or graphic form
                 (for example, an anthropomorphic or a humanlike
                 depiction), and whether still or moving; and

            (c) 3 or 2 dimensional form,

       and includes information or material in any combination of
       forms;

    “internet access service” means a telecommunication service
       between a point in Singapore and another point in Singapore
       or between 2 points, one of which is in Singapore, that —

            (a) enables end‑users to access information or material
                 on the Internet using that service; or

            (b) delivers information or material to persons having
                 equipment appropriate for receiving that information
                 or material on the Internet, where the delivery of the
                 service is by a telecommunication service described
                 in paragraph (a),

       but excludes a relevant electronic service, a social media
       service and any other telecommunication service excluded by
       the Regulations;

    “IRAS” means the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore
       established under the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore
       Act 1992;

    “key officer”, in relation to an applicant for a licence to provide a
       gambling service or a licensee authorised under its licence to
       provide a gambling service, means an individual who
       performs (whether or not appointed under a contract of
       service) such duties in relation to the applicant or licensee as
       are prescribed with respect to that gambling service;

    “law enforcement agency” means —

            (a) the Singapore Police Force;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          19

        (b) the Central Narcotics Bureau;

        (c) the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau; or

        (d) any other public sector agency which is charged with
             the duty of investigating offences or charging
             offenders under any written law and designated by
             the Minister for the purposes of this definition;

“licence” means a licence that is granted under section 54 and is
   in force;

“licensee” means a person to whom a licence is granted under
   this Act but does not include a class licensee;

“licensing objectives” means the objectives of —

        (a) preventing gambling from being a source of crime or
             disorder, or being associated with crime or disorder
             or being used to support crime;

        (b) ensuring that gambling is conducted honestly; and

        (c) minimising the adverse social effects of lawful
             gambling;

“limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by the
   Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

“list of excluded persons” means the list of excluded persons
   established and maintained under section 168 of the Casino
   Control Act 2006, as varied or updated from time to time;

“live broadcast”, of an event, means —

        (a) an audio or a video broadcast of the event in the
             manner generally accepted within the broadcasting
             industry as live; and

        (b) the simultaneous audio or visual transmission,
             through the Internet or other form of
             communication network, from the place where the
             event is taking place to another place, including any
             reasonable period of delay, due to any technical or
             other reason, between any part of the sporting event
             and the audio or visual transmission of it;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
20  NO. 15 OF 2022

    “lottery” has the meaning given by section 9;

    “MAS” means the Monetary Authority of Singapore established
       under the Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970;

    “modification” or “modify”, in relation to the conditions of a
       licence or gambling venue approval, includes deleting, or
       varying and substituting a condition, and adding a condition;

    “money equivalent” has the meaning given by section 14;

    “National Council on Problem Gambling” or “NCPG” means
       the National Council on Problem Gambling established under
       section 154 of the Casino Control Act 2006;

    “occupier”, in relation to any place or premises, has the meaning
       given by subsections (3) and (4);

    “offence under this Act” includes an offence under any
       Regulations;

    “officer” —

            (a) in relation to a corporation, means any director,
                 partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other
                 similar officer of the corporation, and includes —

                   (i) any person purporting to act in any such
                        capacity; and

                   (ii) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by
                        its members, any of those members as if the
                        member were a director of the corporation;

            (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
                 than a partnership), means the president, the
                 secretary, or any member of the committee of the
                 unincorporated association, and includes —

                   (i) any person holding a position analogous to that
                        of president, secretary or member of a
                        committee of the unincorporated association;
                        and

                   (ii) any person purporting to act in any such
                        capacity; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          21

        (c) in relation to a partnership (including a limited
             partnership), means a partner of the partnership,

   and includes any person carrying out the duties of any such
   office referred to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) if the office is
   vacant;

“on‑course betting” and “off‑course betting” have the meanings
   given by section 13(4);

“partner”, in relation to a limited partnership, includes a limited
   partner in the limited partnership;

“place” includes any premises and any conveyance, and any part
   of any premises or conveyance;

“place‑based gambling” means engaging in any conduct in
   person as follows at premises as a customer of a place‑based
   gambling service provided at those premises:

        (a) making a bet;

        (b) participating in a lottery,

   but excludes any on‑course betting and off‑course betting;

“place‑based gambling service” means a gambling service —

        (a) that is for —

               (i) the placing, making, receiving or accepting of
                    bets, or the sole or dominant purpose of which
                    is to introduce individuals who wish to make or
                    place bets to others who are willing to receive
                    or accept those bets; or

               (ii) the sale and purchase of lottery tickets or
                    offering of an opportunity to or otherwise
                    facilitating others to participate in a lottery;

        (b) that is provided only to customers who are attending
             at a particular premises;

        (c) if the placing, making, receiving or accepting of bets
             or purchasing of lottery tickets or participating in a
             lottery may be engaged in by a customer at the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
22  NO. 15 OF 2022

                 particular premises using remote communication,
                 that is provided on the basis that —

                   (i) dealings with such customers involve only the
                        use of an approved automated electronic
                        equipment or an approved electronic media
                        application (or app);

                   (ii) the approved automated electronic equipment
                        is available for use, or the approved electronic
                        media application (or app) is usable, only by
                        any customer who is attending at the particular
                        premises; and

                  (iii) the approved automated electronic equipment
                        is not available for use and the approved
                        electronic media application (or app) is not
                        usable by customers in connection with another
                        gambling service unless the other gambling
                        service is provided by the provider of the
                        firstmentioned gambling service; and

            (d) that is provided by or on behalf of a licensee which is
                 authorised to provide the gambling service at those
                 particular premises;

    “premises” means —

            (a) any space, whether built on or not and whether
                 underground or underwater, or any part of such a
                 space; or

            (b) any building or structure, whether situated
                 underground or underwater, or any part of a
                 building or structure or place,

       but does not include a conveyance;

    “prize”, in relation to any gambling, includes any money or
       money equivalent or any thing else of value that may be won
       under the arrangements for that gambling —

            (a) whether or not described as a prize; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          23

        (b) whether or not consisting wholly or partly of any
             money or money equivalent or any thing else of value
             paid or provided by the persons of the class among
             whom the prize is allocated;

“provision of this Act” includes a provision of any Regulations;

“public” includes a section of the public;

“public authority” means any body established or constituted by
   or under any public Act to perform a public function;

“public place” means any place to which the public has access as
   of right or by virtue of express or implied permission,
   whether or not on payment of a fee and whether or not access
   to the place may be restricted at particular times or for a
   particular purpose, and includes any place in which an
   individual is at work unless that is the individual’s home;

“recognised technician” means a technician recognised by the
   Authority;

“Regulations” means any regulations made under section 126;

“regulatory action” means any action that may be taken by the
   Authority under Part 7 against —

        (a) a licensee or class licensee;

        (b) a former licensee or former class licensee; or

        (c) a supplier of any gaming machine,

   and includes a confirmed interim order under section 91 and a
   directive under section 92;

“relevant electronic service” means any of the following
   electronic services that is supplied to the public:

        (a) an electronic service that enables end‑users to
             communicate, by means of email, with other
             end‑users;

        (b) an online instant messaging service that enables
             end‑users to communicate with other end‑users;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
24  NO. 15 OF 2022

            (c) a service that enables end‑users to play online games
                 with other end‑users;

            (d) a service that specialises in providing links or
                 facilitating access to, or information or material
                 about, online locations, such as (but not limited to) a
                 search engine, directory service or web browser;

            (e) an electronic service which allows a person to
                 transmit material to more than one end‑user
                 simultaneously, also called a point‑to‑multipoint
                 service;

    “remote communication” means communication through —

            (a) the Internet;

            (b) the telephone or other communication device;

            (c) the television or radio; or

            (d) any other kind of electronic or other technology for
                 facilitating communication,

       but excludes any specific system or method of
       communication that the Minister, by order in the Gazette,
       declares not to be treated as remote communication for the
       purposes of this Act;

    “remote communication equipment” includes a computer or
       computer system and a communication device;

    “remote gambling” has the meaning given by section 11;

    “repeat offender”, in relation to any offence under this Act,
       means a person who —

            (a) is convicted, or found guilty, of such an offence
                 (called the current offence); and

            (b) has been convicted or found guilty, on at least one
                 other earlier occasion before the date on which the
                 person is convicted or found guilty of the current
                 offence, of —

                   (i) the same offence; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          25

               (ii) another offence prescribed as a countable
                    offence in respect of the current offence;

“requisite surveillance system”, for an approved gambling
   venue, means any equipment or device (including any
   software) or a collection of such equipment and devices
   (including any software) that —

        (a) is capable of monitoring and recording visual images
             of activities (with or without recording any sound)
             occurring within the approved gambling venue and in
             any place in the immediate vicinity of that approved
             gambling venue; and

        (b) is required by Regulations to be installed in that
             approved gambling venue for the approved gambling
             venue to operate in compliance with the provisions of
             this Act;

“responsible executive”, in relation to an applicant or a licensee
   or class licensee, means an officer thereof who is —

        (a) in the case of a corporation, a director, chief
             executive, general manager or a person in a
             position analogous to any of those offices;

        (b) in the case of a corporation whose affairs are
             managed by its members, a member designated by
             those members to be the responsible executive of the
             corporation;

        (c) in the case of a partnership (including a limited
             partnership), a partner of the partnership; or

        (d) in the case of a society or unincorporated association
             (other than a partnership), a president, secretary or
             treasurer or a person in a position analogous to that of
             a president, secretary or treasurer,

   and includes any person carrying out the duties of any such
   office referred to in paragraph (a), (c) or (d) if the office is
   vacant;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
26  NO. 15 OF 2022

    “restricted period”, for an approved gambling venue or a gaming
       machine room of a licensee, means the hours that the licensee
       concerned —

            (a) is authorised under its licence to provide facilities in
                 the gambling venue or gaming machine room (as the
                 case may be) for others to gamble; and

            (b) is using, or allowing the use of, the approved
                 gambling venue or gaming machine room for
                 gambling;

    “section of the public” includes the members of a particular club,
       society or organisation;

    “security sensitive information” means information held by a
       law enforcement agency that relates to actual or suspected
       criminal activity (whether in Singapore or elsewhere) the
       disclosure of which could reasonably be expected to —

            (a) prejudice a criminal investigation;

            (b) enable the discovery of the existence or identity of a
                 confidential source of information relevant to law
                 enforcement;

            (c) endanger a person’s life or physical safety; or

            (d) disclose the existence or content of a security
                 intelligence report or information;

    “send” includes send by a social media service, a relevant
       electronic service or by remote communication;

    “Singapore permanent resident” means a permanent resident of
       Singapore as defined by section 2 of the Immigration Act
       1959;

                                                                           [Act 31 of 2023 wef 01/12/2025]

    “social gambling” has the meaning given by section 12(1);

    “social media service” means —

            (a) an electronic service that satisfies all the following
                 characteristics:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          27

               (i) the sole or primary purpose of the service is to
                    enable online interaction or linking between 2
                    or more end‑users (including enabling
                    end‑users to share content for social purposes);

               (ii) the service allows end‑users to post
                    information or material on the service;

              (iii) such other characteristics as are prescribed by
                    Regulations; or

        (b) an electronic service prescribed by Regulations as a
             social media service,

   but does not include a service which would otherwise be a
   social media service if none of the information or material on
   the service is accessible by, or delivered to, one or more
   end‑users physically present in Singapore;

“sport” includes any martial art and any dance;

“sporting event” means a sport or competition, or an exhibition,
   entertainment or activity, involving primarily the exercise of
   physical prowess or dexterity, physical strength, physical
   stamina or mental stamina and to the extent that —

        (a) human beings are the only contestants or participants
             who take part in or play the sport, competition,
             exhibition, entertainment or activity; or

        (b) it is a sport or competition, or an exhibition,
             entertainment or activity in which human beings
             take part in —

               (i) by riding animals or exercise of other skill in
                    relation to animals;

               (ii) by driving, piloting, crewing any vehicle,
                    vessel, aircraft or other form of transport;

              (iii) by competing with natural obstacles or natural
                    forces, or by overcoming them; or

              (iv) by using a computer on a computer monitor,
                    television screen, mobile device or similar

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
28  NO. 15 OF 2022

                        medium with electronically recorded data
                        installed in to support an interactive computer
                        game or computer‑generated images,

       and includes a match, a series of matches, a race, a series of
       races, a time trial, a qualification session, a tournament and a
       round, but does not include the following:

            (c) any game of chance;

            (d) any fitness activity or recreational activity that is not
                 organised in the course of any business;

    “standard” means a standard issued or approved by the
       Authority under section 125, and includes any such
       standard as amended from time to time under that section;

    “telecommunication service” has the meaning given by the
       Telecommunications Act 1999;

    “totalisator” has the meaning given by section 5(9);

    “underaged individual” has the meaning given by section 13;

    “unincorporated association” means a society or body
       unincorporate which, under any written law, may sue or be
       sued, or hold property, in the name of an officer of the society
       or body duly appointed for that purpose;

    “unlawful betting” means betting that —

            (a) is not social gambling; and

            (b) is an offence under section 20 or 31;

    “unlawful betting operation” means a betting operation that is
       conducted in contravention of section 18(1), 19(1) or 22(1);

    “unlawful gambling” means gambling that —

            (a) is not social gambling; but

            (b) is any of the following:

                   (i) unlawful betting;

                   (ii) unlawful gaming activity;

                  (iii) unlawful participation in a lottery;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          29

              (iv) an offence under section 31;

“unlawful gambling instrument” means any money or any
   gambling article that is used —

        (a) for or in connection with any form of unlawful
             gambling; or

        (b) for the purposes of a transaction that is dependent on
             any such form of unlawful gambling;

“unlawful gambling place” means any place or premises —

        (a) used for or in connection with conduct of —

               (i) any unlawful betting operation;

               (ii) any unlawful gaming; or

              (iii) any unlawful lottery; or

        (b) used for or in connection with any unlawful
             gambling,

   and any place or premises may be regarded as used for or in
   connection with a purpose in paragraph (a) or (b) even if it is
   used for that purpose on only one occasion;

“unlawful gambling service” means conducting a betting
   operation, or conducting gaming or a lottery in
   contravention of section 18(1) or 19(1);

“unlawful gaming” means conducting gaming in contravention
   of section 18(1), 19(1), 22(2) or 27(1) or (2);

“unlawful gaming activity” means —

        (a) playing a game of chance that is not social gambling
             but is an offence under section 20 or 31; or

        (b) playing a gaming machine that is an offence under
             section 27(5);

“unlawful lottery” means a lottery that is conducted in
   contravention of section 18(1), 19(1) or 22(3);

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
30  NO. 15 OF 2022

      “unlawful participation in a lottery” means the participation in a
         lottery that is not social gambling but is an offence under
         section 20 or 31;

      “words” includes abbreviations, initials and numbers.

 (2) In determining for the purposes of any provision of this Act
whether a person is physically present in Singapore, it is to be
assumed that the person will not falsify or conceal the person’s
identity or location.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), a person is, for the purposes of any
provision of this Act, an occupier of any place or premises during any
material period if the person has —

       (a) the charge, management or control of the place or
            premises, either on the person’s own account or as agent
            of another person, during that period; or

       (b) the use temporarily or otherwise of the place or premises
            during that period,

but nothing in this subsection deems an individual an occupier of any
place or premises by reason only of being a lodger of the place or
premises or part thereof.

                                         Illustrations

      A hirer of a function room in a hotel which is the subject of a hiring
arrangement with the hotel proprietor is an occupier of the function room.

      A lessee of a rented office is an occupier of the office.

      A charterer of a pleasure craft is the occupier of the pleasure craft.

      The owner of an owner‑occupied apartment is an occupier of that apartment.

      The management corporation is the occupier of the common property in a
strata development for which the management corporation is constituted.

      A driver of a lorry is an occupier of the lorry when he or she is driving the
lorry or in charge of it when parked.

 (4) If different parts of a place or premises are occupied by different
persons, then for the purposes of any provision of this Act, a person is
an occupier of a part of the place or premises during a material period
if the person has —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          31

       (a) the charge, management or control of that part of the place
            or premises, either on the person’s own account or as agent
            of another person, during that period; or

       (b) the use temporarily or otherwise of that part of the place or
            premises, during that period.

 (5) For the purposes of any provision of this Act, a person engages
in conduct in accordance with arrangements made by another for or in
connection with any activity if the person is accustomed, or under an
obligation (whether formal or informal), to engage in that conduct in
accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of —

       (a) the other person; or

       (b) where the other person is an entity, of the governing body
            of the other person.

                                          Illustration

      A gambling service agent of a licensee would be acting in accordance with
arrangements made by the licensee where those arrangements conform to the
terms of the gambling agency agreement between them.

Meaning of “gambling”

 4. For the purpose of any provision of this Act, “gambling” means
any of the following:

       (a) betting (within the meaning of section 5);

       (b) engaging in gaming activity (within the meaning of
            section 7);

       (c) participating in a lottery (within the meaning of section 9).

Meanings of “betting” and “totalisator”

 5.—(1) For the purpose of any provision of this Act, “betting”
means making or accepting a bet, involving payment or staking of
any money or money equivalent or any thing else of value, on —

       (a) the outcome of a race, competition, sporting event or other
            event or process, taking place in Singapore or elsewhere;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
32  NO. 15 OF 2022

       (b) the likelihood of anything occurring, or not occurring, in
            Singapore or elsewhere; or

       (c) whether anything is or is not true.

 (2) However, “betting” does not include the following:

       (a) any contract or agreement entered into by either or each
            party by way of business and the making or performance of
            which by any party constitutes an investment activity
            within the meaning of section 5(5) of the Civil Law
            Act 1909;

       (b) a bet the making or accepting of which is excluded from
            the meaning of “betting” by the Minister by order in the
            Gazette.

 (3) In addition to subsection (1) but without affecting
subsection (2), betting includes any transaction by way of
gambling that is classified under the Regulations as betting.

 (4) A transaction that relates to the outcome of a race, competition,
sporting event or other event or process may be a bet within the
meaning of subsection (1) despite the facts that —

       (a) the race, competition, event or process has already
            occurred or been completed; and

       (b) one party to the transaction knows the outcome.

 (5) A transaction that relates to the likelihood of anything occurring
or not occurring may be a bet within the meaning of subsection (1)
despite the facts that —

       (a) the thing has already occurred or failed to occur; and

       (b) one party to the transaction knows that the thing has
            already occurred or failed to occur.

 (6) For the purposes of any provision of this Act, a person makes a
bet (despite the fact that the person does not deposit a stake in the
normal way of betting) if —

       (a) the person participates in an arrangement in the course of
            which participants are required to guess any of the matters
            specified in subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c); and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          33

       (b) the person is required to pay any money or money
            equivalent or any thing else of value to participate.

 (7) For the purposes of subsection (6), it is immaterial —

       (a) to whom a payment is made and who receives benefit from
            a payment; and

       (b) whether a person knows when the person makes a payment
            that the person thereby participates in an arrangement as a
            result of which the person may win a prize.

 (8) Without limiting subsections (1), (2) and (3), a bet includes any
of the following:

       (a) a free bet, which is a bet made wholly or partly using an
            amount that is provided to the person making the bet by the
            authorised betting operator with whom the bet is made and
            is not immediately redeemable by the person for cash;

       (b) a bet made using a totalisator;

       (c) a lay‑off bet where a person conducting a betting operation
            (called betting operator A) makes a bet with another person
            conducting a betting operation to reduce, wholly or in part,
            the liability of betting operator A in relation to one or more
            bets made with the betting operator A.

 (9) For the purpose of any provision of this Act —

      “guess” includes predicting through exercise of skill or
         judgment;

      “totalisator” means a system used —

              (a) to enable persons to invest any money or money
                   equivalent on —

                     (i) the outcome of a race, competition, sporting
                          event or other event or process taking place in
                          Singapore or elsewhere;

                     (ii) the likelihood of anything occurring, or not
                          occurring, in Singapore or elsewhere; or

                    (iii) whether anything is or is not true; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
34  NO. 15 OF 2022

              (b) to enable the totalisator pool to be divided and
                   distributed among the persons who successfully
                   guess the outcomes, likelihood or the truth or
                   anything, as the case may be,

         and includes any machine, apparatus, appliance, equipment,
         instrument or device under which the system is operated, and
         a numbers forecast totalisator paying a fixed minimum
         dividend;

      “totalisator pool” means the amount left from the investments
         after —

              (a) making allowances for refunds of investments;

              (b) deducting commission for the conduct of the
                   totalisator; and

              (c) adding any pool top‑up amount.

Meanings of “conducting a betting operation” and associated
expressions

 6.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, a person is conducting a
betting operation if the person, whether or not or through an agent and
whether alone or with others, and whether by remote communication
or otherwise —

       (a) undertakes any of the following activities:

               (i) accept or receive bets;

              (ii) pay, negotiate or settle bets;

             (iii) operate a betting exchange or betting information
                   centre;

             (iv) operate a totalisator;

              (v) organise pool betting;

             (vi) match gamblers;

            (vii) lay or offer odds;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          35

            (viii) offer an opportunity to or otherwise facilitate others
                   to bet in accordance with arrangements made by the
                   person;

       (b) organises, manages or supervises any activity described in
            paragraph (a);

       (c) distributes the turnover of any activity described in
            paragraph (a) or (b) (for example, by paying prizes,
            meeting costs, or making grants) in accordance with
            arrangements made by the person;

       (d) authorises the carrying on of any activity described in
            paragraph (a), (b) or (c) by a contractor or an employee or
            agent of the person; or

       (e) assists in an activity described in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or
            (d) or any combination of those activities.

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), a person is also regarded as
conducting a betting operation if the person engages in any conduct
on behalf of, or in accordance with arrangements made by, another,
for or in connection with any activity mentioned in subsection (1).

 (3) A reference in any provision of this Act to a bet made with, or
received by, a betting operator includes a reference to a bet made with
the betting operator —

       (a) through an agent;

       (b) wholly or partly by means of remote communication; or

       (c) partly inside and partly outside Singapore.

 (4) Also, a reference in any provision of this Act to a bet made with,
or received by, a betting operator includes, for a betting operator who
operates a betting exchange, a reference to a bet made through the
betting operator using the betting exchange.

 (5) However, despite subsections (1) and (2), a person is not to be
treated as assisting in an activity in subsection (1), or engaging in any
conduct on behalf of or in accordance with arrangements made by
another as mentioned in subsection (2), merely because —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
36  NO. 15 OF 2022

      (a) the person supplies, installs or repairs, in the course of
           business, any gambling article, and even though the person
           knows or ought reasonably to have known that the
           gambling article is intended to be used or is used for or
           in connection with an activity described in subsection (1);

      (b) the person —

             (i) is a provider of —

                   (A) an internet access service;

                   (B) a telecommunication service; or

                   (C) a relevant electronic service other than a
                         service that enables end‑users to play online
                         games with other end‑users; and

            (ii) makes available, in the course of business of
                  providing a service mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i),
                  information or material produced entirely by another
                  person —

                   (A) without altering the information or material; or

                   (B) only altering the information or material to the
                         extent to fit time, space or format constraints;
                         or

      (c) the person publishes a gambling advertisement in
           Singapore or sends an inducement to gamble to anyone.

(6) For the purpose of any provision of this Act —

    “betting exchange” means a facility, electronic or otherwise, that
        enables persons —

            (a) to place or accept, through the operator of the facility,
                 bets with other persons; or

            (b) to place with the operator of the facility bets that, on
                 acceptance, are matched with opposing bets placed
                 with and accepted by the operator,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          37

         but does not include a facility (electronic or otherwise) that
         enables persons to place bets only with a bookmaker or a
         totalisator;

      “betting information centre” means any place kept or used for
         receiving or communicating any information or material
         relating to any race, competition, sporting event or other
         event or process for the purpose of betting;

      “bookmaker” means a person who, on the person’s own account
         or as an employee or agent for another person, carries out
         bookmaking or holds out in any manner as a person who
         carries out bookmaking;

      “bookmaking” means running a business or making, or
         endeavouring to derive, an income, totally or partly, from
         any of the following activities:

              (a) accepting or receiving bets;

              (b) paying, negotiating or settling bets;

              (c) laying or offering odds;

              (d) inviting others to bet in accordance with
                   arrangements made by the person,

         but does not include social gambling, casino gambling and
         operating a totalisator;

      “pool betting” means betting made on terms that all or part of the
         winnings —

              (a) must be determined by reference to the aggregate of
                   stakes paid or agreed to be paid by the persons
                   betting;

              (b) must be divided among the winners; or

              (c) must or may be something other than money.

Meanings of “game of chance”, “gaming activity” and
associated terms

 7.—(1) For the purpose of any provision of this Act, engaging in a
gaming activity means —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
38  NO. 15 OF 2022

       (a) playing a game of chance for a prize; or

       (b) playing a gaming machine,

and includes any transaction by way of gambling that is classified
under the Regulations as gaming activity.

 (2) For the purpose of any provision of this Act, a person plays a
game of chance for a prize if the person plays a game of chance and
thereby acquires a chance of winning any money or money equivalent
or any thing else of value, whether or not the person risks losing
anything at the game.

 (3) This Act applies to a gaming activity whether or not any money
or money equivalent or any thing else of value is paid or provided by
or on behalf of a person to become a player.

 (4) For the purpose of any provision of this Act —

       (a) a person plays a game of chance if the person enters or
            competes in, or otherwise participates in a game of
            chance —

               (i) whether or not there are other players in the game of
                   chance; and

              (ii) whether or not a computer generates images or data
                   taken to represent the actions of other players in the
                   game of chance; and

       (b) an individual is treated as playing a gaming machine if the
            individual, directly or indirectly —

               (i) inserts a coin or a gaming token into the gaming
                   machine;

              (ii) causes gaming machine credits to be registered by
                   the gaming machine;

             (iii) makes a bet on the gaming machine;

             (iv) causes the activation of any process relating to the
                   game in the gaming machine; or

              (v) makes or participates in the making of the decisions
                   involved in playing the gaming machine.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          39

 (5) In addition, a person on whose behalf another person enters or
competes, or otherwise participates, in a game of chance using a
gaming machine located in a gaming machine room and who is not in
the same gaming machine room is also to be regarded, for the purpose
of any provision of this Act, as participating in that game of chance
and a player thereof.

 (6) For the purpose of any provision of this Act —

      “amusement machine” means a mechanical, an electrical or an
         electronic device that is constructed or adapted —

              (a) for the playing of any game (whether or not a game of
                   chance) by means of the machine, whether
                   automatically or by the operation of the machine by
                   an individual playing without using remote
                   communication or 2 or more such individuals;

              (b) to be operated by the insertion of any money or
                   money equivalent or a gaming token, or by the use of
                   accrued credits; and

              (c) so that any individual playing the machine once and
                   successfully either receives —

                     (i) nothing or any thing of value which is less than
                          $100 or an amount specified by the Minister, by
                          order in the Gazette, in substitution; or

                     (ii) only an opportunity afforded by the automatic
                          action of the machine to play again (once or
                          more often) without paying any money or
                          money equivalent or any thing else of value,

              (c) and includes a mechanical, an electrical or an
                   electronic device commonly called a claw machine,
                   or a crane machine or claw crane machine;

      “approved game of chance”, for a licensee, means a game of
         chance that the licensee is authorised under its licence to
         conduct gaming under this Act;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
40  NO. 15 OF 2022

    “game of chance” includes any of the following:

            (a) a game that involves both an element of chance and
                 an element of skill;

            (b) a game that involves an element of chance that can be
                 eliminated by superlative skill;

            (c) a game that is presented as involving an element of
                 chance;

            (d) a game that is played with a gaming machine,

       but does not include any sporting event, and such game,
       method, device, scheme or competition as specified or
       described by the Minister, by order in the Gazette, not to
       be a game of chance for the purposes of this Act;

    “gaming machine” means a device, whether wholly or partly
       mechanically or electronically operated, that —

            (a) is adapted, or designed and constructed, for betting,
                 participating in a lottery or playing a game of chance;

            (b) is played or confers a right to participate (wholly or in
                 part) by —

                   (i) the insertion of any money or money equivalent
                        into it; or

                   (ii) the direct or indirect payment of any money or
                        money equivalent or any thing else of value by
                        any other means; and

            (c) pays out any money or money equivalent or any thing
                 else of value, or registers a right to an amount of
                 money or money equivalent or any thing else of
                 value,

                                          Illustration

         A jackpot machine or fruit machine.

       but does not include any of the following:

            (d) an amusement machine;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          41

        (e) a computer by reason only of the fact that it can be
             used to participate in remote gambling;

        (f) a communication device by reason only of the fact
             that it can be used to participate in remote gambling;

        (g) a machine which only dispenses —

               (i) lottery tickets or otherwise enables a person to
                    enter a lottery; or

               (ii) receipts or tickets that evidence a bet made,

        (g) provided that the results of the lottery or bet (as the
             case may be) are not determined by the machine, and
             are not announced by being displayed or
             communicated by the machine;

        (h) a machine of such other description prescribed in the
             Regulations for the purposes of this definition;

“gaming machine game” means a game of chance that —

        (a) is designed to be played on a gaming machine; and

        (b) is identifiable from all other games of chance by the
             name of the game or differences in its rules or
             programming;

“gaming machine room” means any room or similar enclosed
   location that is or is within an approved gambling venue and
   is where gaming machines are authorised by or under this
   Act —

        (a) to be installed and operated (but not just played); and

        (b) to be made available to others to play,

   in the course of the conduct of gaming;

“gaming token” includes a stored value card, a card which
   registers a right to money or money equivalent, and an object
   or a thing of a similar kind;

“peripheral equipment of a gaming machine” means equipment
   or a device —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
42  NO. 15 OF 2022

            (a) that is incidental to the operation of the gaming
                 machine, such as note acceptors, card readers and
                 ticket readers; or

            (b) that is designed or adapted (and with or without
                 software) to be used —

                   (i) to monitor the operation and performance of
                        the gaming machine;

                   (ii) to facilitate the collection of gambling duties
                        that are payable under the Gambling Duties Act
                        2022 in respect of approved gaming machines;
                        or

                  (iii) to send or receive data from the gaming
                        machine in relation to the security, accounting
                        or operation of the gaming machine,

       and includes any software necessary to operate the gaming
       machine but not a gaming machine game;

    “player”, in relation to a game of chance, means any person who
       enters or competes in, or otherwise participates in the game of
       chance, and includes a person on whose behalf another
       person enters or competes, or otherwise participates, in a
       game of chance using a gaming machine in the circumstances
       in subsection (5);

    “prohibited gaming machine” means a gaming machine that
       must not be approved under section 74, being a gaming
       machine that —

            (a) is declared by Regulations to be a prohibited gaming
                 machine;

            (b) is of a class or description of gaming machines
                 declared by the Regulations to be prohibited gaming
                 machines; or

            (c) is kept, used or operated in such circumstances, or in
                 such manner, as may be prescribed by the
                 Regulations for the purposes of this definition.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          43

Meanings of “conducts gaming” and associated terms

 8.—(1) For the purpose of any provision of this Act, a person
conducts gaming if the person, whether or not or through an agent and
whether alone or with others, and whether by remote communication
or otherwise —

       (a) undertakes any of the following activities in the course of
            business:

               (i) install and operate (but not just play), or make
                   available to others, any gaming machine for the
                   purpose of gambling;

              (ii) control or operate a computer server —

                    (A) in Singapore that enables any game of chance
                          to be played by others in Singapore or
                          elsewhere by remote communication for a
                          prize; or

                     (B) in Singapore or elsewhere that enables any
                          game of chance to be played by others in
                          Singapore by remote communication for a
                          prize;

             (iii) conduct a game of chance for others to play the game
                   of chance for a prize in accordance with
                   arrangements made by the person;

             (iv) offer an opportunity to or otherwise facilitate others
                   to play a game of chance for a prize, in accordance
                   with arrangements made by the person;

       (b) organises, manages or supervises any activity described in
            paragraph (a);

       (c) distributes the turnover of any activity described in
            paragraph (a) or (b) (for example, by redeeming tokens,
            meeting costs, or making grants) in accordance with
            arrangements made by the person;

       (d) authorises the carrying on of any activity described in
            paragraph (a), (b) or (c) —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
44  NO. 15 OF 2022

               (i) by a contractor or an employee or agent of the
                   person; or

              (ii) as an officer, a trustee or member of the governing
                   body of an incorporated or unincorporated body that
                   is conducting the gaming; or

       (e) assists in an activity described in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or
            (d) or any combination of those activities.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), a game of chance is taken to be
conducted in the course of business if —

       (a) a fee is charged to participate in the game of chance or to
            enter the place where the game of chance is conducted at a
            price or rate which reflects the opportunity to play the
            game (other than a fee intended to cover the reasonable
            cost of any food or beverages provided at the place); or

       (b) a charge, commission or fee is deducted from any amount
            bet or won by a participant in the game of chance.

 (3) Without affecting subsection (1), a person also conducts gaming
if the person engages in any conduct on behalf of, or in accordance
with arrangements made by, another, for or in connection with any
activity mentioned in subsection (1).

 (4) However, a person is not to be treated as assisting in an activity
in subsection (1), or engaging in any conduct on behalf of or in
accordance with arrangements made by another as mentioned in
subsection (3), merely because —

       (a) the person supplies, installs or repairs, in the course of
            business, any gambling article intended to be used or is
            used for or in connection with an activity described in
            subsection (1);

       (b) the person —

               (i) is a provider of —

                    (A) an internet access service;

                     (B) a telecommunication service; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          45

                     (C) a relevant electronic service other than a
                          service that enables end‑users to play online
                          games with other end‑users; and

              (ii) makes available, in the course of business of
                   providing a service mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i),
                   information or material produced entirely by another
                   person —

                    (A) without altering the information or material; or

                     (B) only altering the information or material to the
                          extent to fit time, space or format constraints;
                          or

       (c) the person publishes a gambling advertisement in
            Singapore or sends an inducement to gamble to anyone.

Meanings of “lottery” and associated expressions

 9.—(1) For the purpose of any provision of this Act, “lottery”
means an arrangement or a scheme, competition or device, which
may or may not involve multiple participants, for the distribution of
prizes where —

       (a) entitlement to participate in the arrangement, scheme,
            competition or device depends on —

               (i) the payment of or giving of any money or money
                   equivalent or any thing else of value by the
                   participant; or

              (ii) the attendance or other qualification of the
                   participant, without payment; and

       (b) the distribution depends, at any stage of the arrangement,
            scheme, competition or device, on an element of chance
            (even if the arrangement, scheme, competition or device, in
            some other respects, involves a genuine or purported
            exercise of skill),

and includes lucky draws, raffles and sweepstakes, and any
transaction by way of gambling that is classified under the
Regulations as a lottery, but does not include any arrangement or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
46  NO. 15 OF 2022

scheme, competition or device that is specified or described by the
Minister, by order in the Gazette, not to be a lottery for the purposes
of this Act.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a reference to paying
includes a reference to paying for goods or services at a price or rate
which reflects the opportunity to participate in an arrangement or a
scheme, competition or device.

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, a lottery may be determined by any
means including —

       (a) by lot or drawing;

       (b) by cards, token, coin or dice; or

       (c) by any machine, electronic process, ticket, envelope or
            device.

 (4) A process which requires persons to exercise skill must be
treated for the purposes of this section as relying wholly on chance
if —

       (a) the requirement cannot reasonably be expected to prevent a
            significant proportion of persons who participate in the
            arrangement of which the process forms part from
            receiving a prize; and

       (b) the requirement cannot reasonably be expected to prevent a
            significant proportion of persons who wish to participate in
            that arrangement from doing so.

 (5) However, any allotment of real or personal estate or interest
which according to law is legally allottable, or may be allotted or held
by, or by means of, any allotment or partition by lots, is not a lottery
for the purposes of any provision of this Act.

Meaning of “conducting a lottery”

 10.—(1) For the purpose of any provision of this Act, a person is
conducting a lottery if the person, whether or not or through an agent
and whether alone or with others, and whether by remote
communication or otherwise, undertakes any of the following
activities:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          47

       (a) organise or operate the lottery;

       (b) offer an opportunity to or otherwise facilitate others to
            participate in the lottery in accordance with arrangements
            made by the person;

       (c) solicit or receive (other than as a prize winner or
            participant in the lottery) any money or money
            equivalent or any thing else of value in the course of
            organising or operating the lottery or managing or
            supervising it;

       (d) manage or supervise any activity described in
            paragraph (a), (b) or (c);

       (e) authorise the carrying on of any activity described in
            paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d) in respect of the lottery —

               (i) by a contractor or an employee or agent of the
                   person; or

              (ii) as an officer, a trustee or member of the governing
                   body of an incorporated or unincorporated body that
                   is promoting the lottery;

        (f) assist in an activity described in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d)
            or (e) or any combination of those activities,

and each person is to be regarded as a lottery promoter of that lottery.

                                         Illustrations

      Selling or offering for sale any ticket or chance, or share in a ticket or chance,
in a lottery.

      Giving, delivering or collecting any ticket for a lottery arranged by the giver.

      Drawing, throwing, declaring, or exhibiting expressly or otherwise, the
winner or winning number, ticket, lot, figure, design, symbol or other result of any
lottery.

      Printing or publishing in Singapore any lottery ticket or list of prizes or any
announcement of the result of a lottery or any announcement or riddle relating to a
lottery.

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), a person is also regarded as
conducting a lottery if the person engages in any conduct on behalf of,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
48  NO. 15 OF 2022

or in accordance with arrangements made by, another, for or in
connection with any activity mentioned in subsection (1).

 (3) However, despite subsections (1) and (2), a person is not to be
treated as assisting in an activity described in subsection (1), or
engaging in any conduct on behalf of or in accordance with
arrangements made by another as mentioned in subsection (2),
merely because —

       (a) the person supplies, installs or repairs, in the course of
            business, any gambling article intended to be used or is
            used for or in connection with an activity described in
            subsection (1);

       (b) the person —

               (i) is a provider of —

                    (A) an internet access service;

                     (B) a telecommunication service; or

                     (C) a relevant electronic service other than a
                          service that enables end‑users to play online
                          games with other end‑users; and

              (ii) makes available, in the course of business of
                   providing a service mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i),
                   information or material produced entirely by another
                   person —

                    (A) without altering the information or material; or

                     (B) only altering the information or material to the
                          extent to fit time, space or format constraints;
                          or

       (c) the person publishes a gambling advertisement in
            Singapore or sends an inducement to gamble to anyone.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          49

Meanings of “remote gambling” and associated terms

 11.—(1) For the purpose of any provision of this Act —

      “engaging in general remote gambling” includes opening or
         re‑opening an account with a licensee to engage in general
         remote gambling;

      “general remote gambling” means remote gambling that is none
         of the following:

              (a) on‑course betting;

              (b) off‑course betting;

              (c) gambling using a gambling service authorised by a
                   class licence;

              (d) gambling using remote communication at premises
                   as a customer of a place‑based gambling service
                   provided at those premises on the basis described in
                   paragraph (c) of the definition of “place‑based
                   gambling service” in section 3(1);

      “remote gambling” means gambling by the use of remote
         communication, even if the gambling is done only partly by
         means of remote communication;

      “remote gambling service” means a gambling service that —

              (a) is provided in the course of carrying on a business;
                   and

              (b) makes facilities available for use by others to engage
                   in remote gambling in accordance with arrangements
                   by the provider of the facilities.

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a person provides facilities for use
by customers to engage in remote gambling if —

       (a) the person makes facilities for remote communication
            available for use by others;

       (b) the facilities are adapted or presented in such a way as to
            facilitate, or to draw attention to the possibility of, their use
            for remote gambling; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
50  NO. 15 OF 2022

       (c) the nature, adaptation or presentation of the facilities is
            such that —

               (i) they cannot reasonably be expected to be used for
                   purposes other than remote gambling; or

              (ii) they are intended to be used wholly or partly for
                   remote gambling.

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, it does not matter whether facilities
for remote gambling are provided —

       (a) only partly by means of remote communication; or

       (b) outside Singapore or partly inside and partly outside
            Singapore.

 (4) However, a person does not provide facilities for use by
customers to engage in remote gambling, and is not an agent of
another person who provides facilities for a remote gambling service,
merely because the person —

       (a) is a provider of —

               (i) an internet access service;

              (ii) a telecommunication service; or

             (iii) a relevant electronic service other than a service that
                   enables end‑users to play online games with other
                   end‑users; and

       (b) makes available, in the course of business of providing a
            service mentioned in paragraph (a), information or
            material produced entirely by another person —

               (i) without altering the information or material; or

              (ii) only altering the information or material to the extent
                   to fit time, space or format constraints.

 (5) For the purposes of any provision of this Act —

       (a) a remote gambling service has a foreign‑customer link if
            none of the customers is physically present in Singapore,
            whether or not an individual who is physically present in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          51

            Singapore is capable of becoming a customer of that
            service; and

       (b) a remote gambling service has a Singapore‑customer link
            if any information or material included or otherwise
            provided using that service is accessible by, or delivered
            to, one or more end‑users of the service who are physically
            present in Singapore.

 (6) For the purposes of any provision of this Act, a remote gambling
service is a Singapore‑based remote gambling service if —

       (a) the service is provided in the course of carrying on a
            business in Singapore;

       (b) the central management and control of the service is in
            Singapore; or

       (c) where the service is provided to customers using an
            internet access service, all or any of the relevant internet
            content is hosted in Singapore.

 (7) In subsection (6)(c), the relevant internet content, in relation to a
remote gambling service, means internet content that is accessed, or
available for access, by an end‑user in the capacity of customer of that
remote gambling service.

 (8) For the purpose of any provision of this Act, “non‑remote
gambling” means any gambling that is not remote gambling.

Meaning of “social gambling”

 12.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), non‑remote gambling which —

       (a) is conducted by an individual in premises that are either the
            individual’s home or another individual’s home in
            Singapore;

       (b) has as participants only individuals who are members of
            the same family or who know each other personally;

       (c) is substantially spontaneous, even though it may occur
            regularly, habitually or by arrangement between the
            individuals involved;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
52                     NO. 15 OF 2022

       (d) is not promoted or conducted —

               (i) by or for the private gain of any person not
                   participating in the gambling; or

              (ii) in the course of any business;

       (e) is conducted so that the only way a participant in the
            gambling can make a profit or gain any other benefit as a
            result of the gambling is by winning; and

        (f) is conducted in accordance with the conditions prescribed
            (if any) by Regulations,

is to be taken to constitute social gambling and is not unlawful.

 (2) A reference in any other written law to gambling, gaming or
wagering, or to betting, that is unlawful is taken not to refer to social
gambling.

Meaning of “underaged individual”

 13.—(1) For the purpose of any provision of this Act, an underaged
individual is an individual who is below the age specified in the
second column of the table below when he or she is gambling in the
manner specified opposite that age:

        First column                   Second column

    Type of gambling                   Minimum age

1. On‑course betting   18 years of age or a higher age
                       prescribed in substitution
                       under subsection (2).

2. Off‑course betting  18 years of age or a higher age
                       prescribed in substitution
                       under subsection (2).

3. Place‑based gambling that 18 years of age or a higher age

    involves —         prescribed in substitution

    (a) participating in any lottery; under subsection (2).

    or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
            GAMBLING CONTROL                              53

First column                      Second column

Type of gambling                  Minimum age

(b) betting connected with a
     sporting event happening
     in Singapore or elsewhere
     (but not a horse or pony
     race at a racecourse) and a
     live broadcast of the
     sporting event is not
     provided at the premises
     where the place‑based
     gambling takes place.

4. Place‑based gambling that 21 years of age or a higher age

involves —                        prescribed in substitution

(a) betting connected with a under subsection (2).

sporting event happening

in Singapore or elsewhere

(but not a horse or pony

race at a racecourse); and

(b) a live broadcast of the
     sporting event being
     provided at the premises
     where the place‑based
     gambling takes place.

5. Any other type of non‑remote 21 years of age or a higher age

gambling or remote gambling prescribed in substitution

that is —                         under subsection (2).

(a) not mentioned in item 1, 2,
     3 or 4 (even if carried on
     within a casino);

(b) not authorised by a class
     licence; and

(c) not social gambling.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
54  NO. 15 OF 2022

 (2) The Minister charged with the responsibility for family and
child welfare and protection may, by order in the Gazette, raise any
age mentioned in subsection (1).

 (3) The Minister charged with the responsibility for family and
child welfare and protection may, in any order made under
subsection (2), make such saving and transitional provision as may
be necessary or expedient.

 (4) In this section —

      “licensed bookmaker” includes a person who is granted a
         licence to conduct a betting operation;

      “off‑course betting” means betting —

              (a) on the outcome of a horse or pony race taking place at
                   the racecourse in Singapore or elsewhere;

              (b) not made at the racecourse but at premises as a
                   customer of a place‑based gambling service provided
                   at those premises;

              (c) that is either non‑remote gambling or remote
                   gambling using electronic equipment which is
                   constructed or designed solely for a customer to
                   make a bet; and

              (d) with a licensed bookmaker who is authorised by a
                   licence to accept or receive bets in relation to the
                   horse or pony race;

      “on‑course betting” means betting —

              (a) made at a racecourse in Singapore on the outcome of
                   a horse or pony race taking place at the racecourse or
                   elsewhere; and

              (b) with a licensed bookmaker who is situated at that
                   racecourse and is authorised by a licence to accept or
                   receive bets at that racecourse.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          55

Meaning of “money equivalent”

 14.—(1) For the purposes of the provisions of this Act, “money
equivalent” means —

       (a) an arrangement under which a party has —

               (i) an encashable legal or equitable right to receive a
                   financial benefit;

              (ii) an encashable legal or equitable obligation to
                   provide a financial benefit;

             (iii) a combination of one or more such rights and one or
                   more such obligations; or

             (iv) a combination of one or more such rights or one or
                   more such obligations; or

       (b) a right to receive money or something else that is a money
            equivalent under this definition,

and includes any virtual voucher, virtual coupon, virtual credit,
virtual coin, virtual token, virtual object, or any other similar thing
purchased within, or as part of, or in relation to, any gambling, which
is an arrangement described in paragraph (a) or confers a right
described in paragraph (b).

 (2) A right to receive, or an obligation to provide, a financial benefit
is encashable if, and only if —

       (a) the benefit is money or a money equivalent;

       (b) in the case of a right, the holder thereof intends to satisfy or
            settle it by receiving money or a money equivalent or by
            starting to have, or ceasing to have, another arrangement
            described in subsection (1)(a);

       (c) in the case of an obligation, the party subject to it intends to
            satisfy or settle it by providing money or a money
            equivalent or by starting to have, or ceasing to have,
            another arrangement described in subsection (1)(a); or

       (d) the financial benefit is readily convertible into money or a
            money equivalent and there is a market for the financial
            benefit that has a high degree of liquidity.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
56  NO. 15 OF 2022

Meaning of “possession”

 15.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, a person has “possession” of
a gambling article if —

       (a) the person, being an individual, carries or has an object or a
            thing on his or her person, including something carried or
            worn by the person (called in this section physical
            possession), and the individual knows or has reason to
            believe that the object or thing is a gambling article;

       (b) the person has the care, control or management of the
            gambling article;

       (c) the person has the gambling article in the care, control or
            management of another person, including storing it with
            that other person;

       (d) the person drives, flies or otherwise operates (even by
            remote control) any conveyance carrying the gambling
            article;

       (e) the gambling article is in or on any place or premises,
            owned, leased or occupied by, or in the care, control or
            management of, the person; or

        (f) the gambling article is within any container owned or in the
            care, control or management of, the person.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), for the purposes of this Act, a
person has possession of a gambling article if —

       (a) any major part of the gambling article is in the person’s
            possession;

       (b) other major parts of the gambling article are in the
            possession of another person or persons;

       (c) at least one of the other persons is in possession of the other
            major part or major parts of the gambling article for an
            agreed purpose with the person; and

       (d) those parts would make up the gambling article if fitted
            together,

and each of the persons is taken to be possessing the gambling article.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          57

 (3) However, for the purposes of any proceedings for an offence
under this Act, a person is not taken to have possession of a gambling
article just because the gambling article is at a place or premises
owned, leased or occupied by the person if the court is satisfied, on a
balance of probabilities, that —

       (a) the person did not know and could not reasonably be
            expected to have known that the gambling article is at the
            place or premises;

       (b) someone else who is authorised to possess the gambling
            article —

               (i) is also at the place or premises; or

              (ii) has the care, control or management of the gambling
                   article;

       (c) someone else who is not authorised to possess the
            gambling article has the care, control or management of
            the gambling article; or

       (d) on the evidence, the person was otherwise not in
            possession of the gambling article.

 (4) In addition to subsection (3), for the purposes of any
proceedings for an offence under this Act, a person is not taken to
have possession of a gambling article just because the gambling
article is in a container owned by the person if the court is satisfied, on
a balance of probabilities, that —

       (a) the person did not know and could not reasonably be
            expected to have known that the gambling article is in the
            container;

       (b) someone else has the care, control or management of the
            gambling article; or

       (c) on the evidence, the person was otherwise not in
            possession of the gambling article.

 (5) A defendant to a prosecution for an offence under this Act who
wishes to rely on a matter mentioned in subsection (3) or (4) has the
evidential burden in relation to the matter.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
58  NO. 15 OF 2022

 (6) To determine whether a person has the care, control or
management of a gambling article, for the purposes of this Act,
each of the following must be considered:

       (a) whether the person knows about the gambling article;

       (b) whether the person can use or transfer the gambling article;

       (c) whether the person can control or prevent someone else
            from using or having physical possession of the gambling
            article.

Meanings of “gambling advertisement”, “inducement to
gamble” and “publish in Singapore”

 16.—(1) For the purpose of any provision of this Act —

      “gambling advertisement” means any information or material
         that gives publicity to, or otherwise promotes or is intended to
         promote —

              (a) a particular gambling service;

              (b) gambling services in general;

              (c) the whole or part of a trade mark relating to a
                   gambling service;

              (d) a domain name or URL of a particular gambling
                   service, betting operation, game of chance or lottery;
                   and

              (e) any words that are closely associated with a particular
                   gambling service, betting operation, game of chance
                   or lottery (whether also closely associated with other
                   kinds of services or products);

      “inducement to gamble” means any document or message
         containing information or material that —

              (a) contains —

                     (i) any offer or giving of a credit, voucher, reward
                          or other benefit to gamble;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          59

                     (ii) the making of any offer designed to induce
                          persons to participate, or to increase their
                          participation, in gambling; or

                    (iii) any offer of an opportunity to gamble, or the
                          offer of a condition or other aspect of any
                          gambling, that includes additional benefits or
                          enhancements connected with that gambling;
                          or

              (b) invites, or may reasonably be implied to invite, the
                   person receiving it —

                     (i) to engage in any form of gambling; or

                     (ii) to apply to any person, or at any place, with a
                          view to obtaining information or material or
                          advice for the purpose of any gambling or for
                          information or material as to any event in
                          relation to which gambling is generally
                          conducted.

 (2) For the purposes of any provision of this Act, a gambling
advertisement is published in Singapore if the gambling
advertisement —

       (a) is displayed in a newspaper, magazine, leaflet, ticket or
            other document that is available, or distributed, to the
            public;

       (b) is contained in a film, video, television programme or radio
            programme that is, or is intended to be, seen or heard by the
            public;

       (c) is displayed or exhibited, or is displayed or exhibited on
            something that contains the advertisement, in a manner so
            that it can be seen or heard in or from a public place in
            Singapore, or any conveyance in Singapore, or any
            workplace in Singapore; or

       (d) is made known to the public in any other manner or by any
            other means.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
60  NO. 15 OF 2022

 (3) Without limiting subsection (2), where a gambling
advertisement is made available, distributed or communicated in
electronic or digital form, the gambling advertisement is to be taken
to be published in Singapore if —

       (a) the advertisement originates in Singapore, even if none of
            the persons capable of having access to the advertisement
            is physically present in Singapore; or

       (b) for an advertisement which did not originate in Singapore,
            or the origin of which cannot be determined, all of the
            following apply:

               (i) the advertisement is made available, displayed,
                   distributed or communicated or caused to be made
                   available, displayed, distributed or communicated to
                   the public by a Singapore‑connected person or the
                   Singapore‑connected person takes part in that
                   making available, display, distribution or
                   communication of that advertisement to the public;

              (ii) the advertisement is accessible by persons physically
                   present in Singapore.

 (4) However, none of the following, of itself, amounts to publishing
a gambling advertisement or sending an inducement to gamble:

       (a) the sending of information or material that is or includes a
            gambling advertisement to a group of people all of whom
            are involved in the provision of gambling services;

       (b) the publication of the name of a person providing a
            gambling service in a telephone directory unless —

               (i) the publication is on the Internet; and

              (ii) the entry for the person contains a link to an online
                   location for the person to conduct a betting
                   operation, game of chance or lottery using remote
                   communication;

       (c) an index of online search results which links or refers an
            end‑user in Singapore to betting operations, games of
            chance, lotteries or gambling or facilities for the access or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          61

            use of betting operations, games of chance or lotteries,
            which is made available to that person only because that
            person initiates a search through an online information
            location service such as a search engine service;

       (d) the display or exhibition of any words or symbols that
            appear in or on any approved gambling venue occupied by
            a licensee or an agent of a licensee;

       (e) the publishing of an advertisement relating to the internal
            management of the business of a licensee that does not
            promote a particular gambling service, such as an
            advertisement to recruit staff or calling for tenders for
            works;

        (f) the communication of any information or material that, if
            not for subsection (1), would be a gambling advertisement
            and it is apparent from the contents of the information and
            material that its sole or principal purpose is to discourage
            the use of gambling services or particular kinds of
            gambling services;

       (g) any other activity specified or described by the Minister in
            an order in the Gazette.

 (5) In this section, “Singapore‑connected person” means any of the
following:

       (a) a citizen of Singapore;

       (b) a Singapore permanent resident;

       (c) a person physically present in Singapore;

       (d) an entity which is registered in Singapore (even if
            incorporated outside Singapore), or is incorporated,
            under any written law;

       (e) a corporation sole or corporation aggregate established
            under a private Act.

Application of Act

 17.—(1) Except where expressly provided otherwise, the
provisions of this Act extend to apply to and in relation to —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
62  NO. 15 OF 2022

       (a) a betting operation —

               (i) in which persons physically present in Singapore
                   negotiate, place, make, receive or accept bets, or can
                   negotiate, place, make, receive or accept bets; and

              (ii) that is conducted or proposed to be conducted
                   outside Singapore (whether or not it is lawful in
                   the place where it is conducted or is proposed to be
                   conducted); and

       (b) a betting operation —

               (i) in which persons physically outside Singapore
                   negotiate, place, make, receive or accept bets, or
                   can negotiate, place, make, receive or accept bets
                   (whether or not it is lawful in the place where it is or
                   is proposed to be negotiated, placed, made, received
                   or accepted); and

              (ii) that is conducted or proposed to be conducted in or
                   from Singapore.

 (2) Except where expressly provided otherwise, the provisions of
this Act extend to apply to and in relation to —

       (a) a game of chance —

               (i) in which persons physically present in Singapore
                   play or can play; and

              (ii) that is conducted or proposed to be conducted
                   outside Singapore (whether or not it is lawful in
                   the place where it is conducted or is proposed to be
                   conducted); and

       (b) a game of chance —

               (i) in which persons physically outside Singapore play,
                   or can play (whether or not it is lawful in the place
                   where it is played); and

              (ii) that is conducted or proposed to be conducted in or
                   from Singapore.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          63

 (3) Except where expressly provided otherwise, the provisions of
this Act extend to apply to and in relation to —

       (a) a lottery —

               (i) in which persons physically present in Singapore
                   participate or can participate in; and

              (ii) that is conducted or proposed to be conducted
                   outside Singapore (whether or not it is lawful in
                   the place where it is conducted or is proposed to be
                   conducted); and

       (b) a lottery —

               (i) in which persons physically outside Singapore
                   participate or can participate in (whether or not it
                   is lawful in the place where it is participated in); and

              (ii) that is conducted or proposed to be conducted in or
                   from Singapore,

and it does not matter whether the lottery is held, drawn, exercised or
managed wholly in Singapore or partly inside and partly outside
Singapore.

 (4) Without limiting subsections (1), (2) and (3), this Act applies in
relation to the things, conduct, transactions and matters mentioned in
those subsections even if the rule of private international law
(whether at general law or as provided by written law) would require
the application of a law other than this Act.

 (5) This Act does not apply to a gambling advertisement or an
inducement to gamble unless —

       (a) the gambling advertisement is published in Singapore; or

       (b) the inducement to gamble is, or is intended to be, received
            by a person in Singapore.

 (6) Parts 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 do not apply to or in relation to any
gambling which is carried on or to be carried on within any casino.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
64  NO. 15 OF 2022

                                    PART 2

                                  OFFENCES

   Division 1 — Unlawful betting operations, gaming or lotteries

Unlawful conduct of betting operations, gaming or lotteries

 18.—(1) A person must not conduct any betting operation, or
conduct gaming or any lottery, unless the person is one of the
following:

       (a) a person granted a licence authorising the person to provide
            a gambling service involving, as the case may be —

               (i) conducting that betting operation or a betting
                   operation of that kind;

              (ii) conducting gaming or gaming of that kind; or

             (iii) conducting that lottery or a lottery of that kind;

       (b) a class licensee authorised under a class licence to provide
            a gambling service involving, as the case may be —

               (i) conducting that betting operation or a betting
                   operation of that kind;

              (ii) conducting gaming or gaming of that kind; or

             (iii) conducting that lottery or a lottery of that kind;

       (c) an employee of a licensee mentioned in paragraph (a) or a
            class licensee mentioned in paragraph (b), who is
            conducting the betting operation or conducting gaming
            or a lottery —

               (i) on behalf of, or in accordance with arrangements
                   made by, his or her employer; and

              (ii) in connection with the gambling service that is
                   authorised by the licence or class licence of the
                   licensee or class licensee;

       (d) a gambling service agent (or an employee thereof) of a
            licensee mentioned in paragraph (a) or a class licensee
            mentioned in paragraph (b), which is conducting the
            betting operation or conducting gaming or a lottery —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          65

               (i) on behalf of, or in accordance with arrangements
                   made by, the licensee or class licensee; and

              (ii) in connection with the gambling service that is
                   authorised by the licence or class licence of the
                   licensee or class licensee;

       (e) a person exempt from this section in relation to whichever
            of the following that is applicable:

               (i) conducting that betting operation or a betting
                   operation of that kind;

              (ii) conducting gaming or gaming of that kind; or

             (iii) conducting that lottery or a lottery of that kind;

        (f) a person granted a casino licence to conduct that betting
            operation, gaming or lottery within a casino (or an
            individual conducting it on the person’s behalf) and
            where the betting operation, gaming or lottery is
            conducted within the casino.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a person who contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and —

       (a) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
            $500,000 and shall also be punished with imprisonment for
            a term not exceeding 7 years; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $700,000 and shall also
            be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            10 years.

 (3) However, a person who contravenes subsection (1) by engaging
in conduct described in section 6(2), 8(3) or 10(2) shall be guilty of an
offence and —

       (a) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
            $200,000 and shall also be punished with imprisonment for
            a term not exceeding 5 years; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $300,000 and shall also

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
66  NO. 15 OF 2022

            be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            7 years.

 (4) The following offences are each a countable offence for the
purpose of the reference in subsection (2) or (3) to a “repeat
offender”:

       (a) an offence under section 3 of the Betting Act 1960 repealed
            by this Act;

       (b) an offence under section 4 or 5 of the Common Gaming
            Houses Act 1961 repealed by this Act;

       (c) an offence under section 9, 10 or 11 of the Remote
            Gambling Act 2014 repealed by this Act.

 (5) An offence under this section is an arrestable offence.

 (6) Strict liability applies to an offence under this section.

Betting operation, etc., outside of approved gambling venue

 19.—(1) A person must not conduct any betting operation, or
conduct any gaming or any lottery in or from any place or premises in
Singapore that is not an approved gambling venue for the conduct of
that betting operation, gaming or lottery (as the case may be) if the
person knows, or ought reasonably to have known, that the place or
premises is not an approved gambling venue for the conduct of that
betting operation, gaming or lottery.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a person who contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and —

       (a) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
            $500,000 and shall also be punished with imprisonment for
            a term not exceeding 7 years; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $700,000 and shall also
            be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            10 years.

 (3) However, a person who contravenes subsection (1) by engaging
in conduct described in section 6(2), 8(3) or 10(2) shall be guilty of an
offence and —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          67

       (a) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
            $200,000 and shall also be punished with imprisonment for
            a term not exceeding 5 years; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $300,000 and shall also
            be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            7 years.

 (4) The following offences are each a countable offence for the
purpose of the reference in subsection (2) or (3) to a “repeat
offender”:

       (a) an offence under section 3 of the Betting Act 1960 repealed
            by this Act;

       (b) an offence under section 4 or 5 of the Common Gaming
            Houses Act 1961 repealed by this Act;

       (c) an offence under section 9, 10 or 11 of the Remote
            Gambling Act 2014 repealed by this Act.

 (5) An offence under this section is an arrestable offence.

 (6) This section does not extend to engaging in conduct —

       (a) within a casino; or

       (b) authorised by a class licence.

Gambling with unlicensed gambling service provider or at
unlawful gambling place

 20.—(1) An individual (A) commits an offence if —

       (a) A gambles with another person (B) using a gambling
            service provided by B;

       (b) B is providing the gambling service in contravention of
            section 18(1); and

       (c) A knows, or ought reasonably to have known, that B is
            providing the gambling service in contravention of
            section 18(1).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
68  NO. 15 OF 2022

 (2) An individual commits an offence if —

       (a) the individual gambles with another person in or from any
            place or premises in Singapore; and

       (b) the individual knows, or ought reasonably to have known,
            that the place or premises is an unlawful gambling place.

 (3) An individual who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)
or (2) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (4) An offence under this section is an arrestable offence.

Having financial interest in unlawful gambling service

 21.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person has a financial interest in a gambling service;
            and

       (b) the gambling service is being provided in contravention of
            section 18(1) or 19(1).

 (2) However, a person is not guilty of an offence under
subsection (1) if the person proves, on a balance of probabilities,
that the person —

       (a) at the time of acquiring the financial interest in the
            gambling service, did not know, and had no reasonable
            cause to suspect, that the gambling service was being or
            would be provided in contravention of section 18(1) or
            19(1); and

       (b) as soon as practicable after becoming aware that the
            gambling service was being provided in contravention of
            section 18(1) or 19(1), took all reasonable steps to divest
            the person’s financial interest.

 (3) In this section, “financial interest” in a gambling service means
an entitlement to receive —

       (a) any of the income from the gambling service; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          69

       (b) a percentage or share from —

               (i) any amount of any bet received, negotiated or
                   accepted;

              (ii) any amount wagered on a game of chance conducted
                   or to be conducted; or

             (iii) any amount of money or money equivalent paid or
                   given by the participants of a lottery conducted or to
                   be conducted,

       (b) in the course of providing the gambling service.

 (4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) —

       (a) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
            $500,000 and shall also be punished with imprisonment for
            a term not exceeding 7 years; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $700,000 and shall also
            be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            10 years.

 (5) The following offences are each a countable offence for the
purpose of the reference in subsection (4) to a “repeat offender”:

       (a) an offence under section 3 of the Betting Act 1960 repealed
            by this Act;

       (b) an offence under section 6 of the Common Gaming Houses
            Act 1961 repealed by this Act.

 (6) An offence under this section is an arrestable offence.

 (7) Strict liability applies to an offence under subsection (1).

Conducting games, lotteries, etc., that are not approved

 22.—(1) A person must not conduct a betting operation
involving —

       (a) the placing, making, receiving, accepting or negotiating of
            any bets on the outcome of any race, competition, sporting
            event or other event or process taking place in Singapore or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
70  NO. 15 OF 2022

            elsewhere if that race, competition, sporting event or other
            event or process is not approved under section 70; or

       (b) any of the following in a manner that is not in conformity
            with rules of betting approved by the Authority under
            section 70 for that activity and person:

               (i) placing, making, receiving, accepting or negotiating
                   of any bets;

              (ii) operating a betting exchange or betting information
                   centre;

             (iii) operating a totalisator;

             (iv) organising pool betting.

 (2) A person must not conduct gaming involving a game of chance
(but not a gaming machine game in a gaming machine) —

       (a) that is not approved under section 70 for that person; or

       (b) in a manner that is not in conformity with the rules of the
            game of chance approved under section 70 for that game.

 (3) A person must not conduct a lottery —

       (a) that is not approved under section 70 for that person; or

       (b) in a manner that is not in conformity with the rules of the
            lottery approved under section 70 for that lottery.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), a person who contravenes
subsection (1), (2) or (3) shall be guilty of an offence and —

       (a) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
            $500,000 and shall also be punished with imprisonment for
            a term not exceeding 7 years; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $700,000 and shall also
            be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            10 years.

 (5) However, a person who —

       (a) contravenes subsection (1) by engaging in conduct
            described in section 6(2);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          71

       (b) contravenes subsection (2) by engaging in conduct
            described in section 8(3); or

       (c) contravenes subsection (3) by engaging in conduct
            described in section 10(2),

shall be guilty of an offence and —

       (d) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
            $200,000 and shall also be punished with imprisonment for
            a term not exceeding 5 years; but

       (e) where the person is a repeat offender, shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $300,000 and shall also
            be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            7 years.

 (6) However, a person is not guilty of any offence under this section
if the person proves, on a balance of probabilities, that the person at
the time of conducting the betting operation, gaming or lottery, did
not know, and had no reasonable cause to suspect, that the betting
operation, gaming or lottery (as the case may be) would be in
contravention of subsection (1), (2) or (3).

 (7) An offence under this section is an arrestable offence.

 (8) Strict liability applies to offences under subsections (4) and (5),
respectively.

 (9) This section does not extend to the following:

       (a) engaging in conduct within a casino;

       (b) a class licensee who provides a gambling service according
            to a class licence applicable to that class licensee and
            gambling service.

                Division 2 — Unlawful gambling places
Owning, etc., place used for unlawful gambling

 23.—(1) A person commits an offence if —
       (a) the person is an owner or an occupier of a place or
            premises; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
72  NO. 15 OF 2022

       (b) the person uses, or allows the place or premises to be used,
            as an unlawful gambling place.

 (2) However, a person is not guilty of an offence under
subsection (1) if the person proves, on a balance of probabilities,
that the person —

       (a) had no knowledge and could not with reasonable diligence
            have ascertained that the place or premises (or any part
            thereof) is to be used as an unlawful gambling place; and

       (b) as soon as practicable after becoming aware that the place
            or premises (or any part thereof) is or is to be used as an
            unlawful gambling place, took all reasonable steps to stop
            that use.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) —

       (a) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
            $500,000 and shall also be punished with imprisonment for
            a term not exceeding 7 years; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $700,000 and shall also
            be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            10 years.

 (4) An offence under this section is an arrestable offence.

 (5) Strict liability applies to an offence under subsection (1).

Offence of organising gambling place

 24.—(1) A person must not organise or manage, or assist in
organising or managing, any unlawful gambling place.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a person who contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and —

       (a) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
            $500,000 and shall also be punished with imprisonment for
            a term not exceeding 7 years; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $700,000 and shall also

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          73

            be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            10 years.

 (3) However, a person who contravenes subsection (1) by engaging
in conduct described in section 6(2), 8(3) or 10(2) shall be guilty of an
offence and —

       (a) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
            $200,000 and shall also be punished with imprisonment for
            a term not exceeding 5 years; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $300,000 and shall also
            be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            7 years.

 (4) The following offences are each a countable offence for the
purpose of the reference in subsection (2) or (3) to a “repeat
offender”:

       (a) an offence under section 3 of the Betting Act 1960 repealed
            by this Act;

       (b) an offence under section 4 of the Common Gaming Houses
            Act 1961 repealed by this Act.

 (5) An offence under this section is an arrestable offence.

 (6) Strict liability applies to offences under subsections (2) and (3),
respectively.

Offence of financing unlawful gambling place

 25.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person provides
financing (whether money or a money equivalent) for any step taken
in the process of organising or conducting an unlawful gambling
place.

 (2) However, a person is not guilty of an offence under
subsection (1) if the person proves, on a balance of probabilities,
that at the time of providing financing, the person did not know, and
had no reasonable cause to suspect, that the financing (whether
money or a money equivalent) was for a step taken in the process of
organising or conducting an unlawful gambling place.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
74  NO. 15 OF 2022

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), a person who is guilty of an offence
under subsection (1) —

       (a) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
            $500,000 and shall also be punished with imprisonment for
            a term not exceeding 7 years; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $700,000 and shall also
            be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            10 years.

 (4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) by
engaging in conduct described in section 6(2), 8(3) or 10(2) —

       (a) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
            $200,000 and shall also be punished with imprisonment for
            a term not exceeding 5 years; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $300,000 and shall also
            be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            7 years.

 (5) The following offences are each a countable offence for the
purpose of the reference in subsection (3) or (4) to a “repeat
offender”:

       (a) an offence under section 3 or 4 of the Betting Act 1960
            repealed by this Act;

       (b) an offence under section 4 or 6 of the Common Gaming
            Houses Act 1961 repealed by this Act.

 (6) An offence under this section is an arrestable offence.

 (7) Strict liability applies to an offence under subsection (1).

Offence of being in unlawful gambling place

 26.—(1) An individual who is found in, or who enters or leaves, an
unlawful gambling place commits an offence.

 (2) However, an individual is not guilty of an offence under this
section if the individual proves, on a balance of probabilities, that —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          75

       (a) he or she did not know and had no reasonable cause to
            suspect, that the place or premises was an unlawful
            gambling place and as soon as practicable after
            becoming aware that the place or premises was an
            unlawful gambling place, took all reasonable steps to
            leave the place or premises; or

       (b) he or she was in, or was entering, the unlawful gambling
            place for a lawful purpose or with other reasonable excuse.

 (3) An individual who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (4) An offence under this section is an arrestable offence.

 (5) Strict liability applies to an offence under subsection (1).

            Division 3 — Gaming machine‑related offences

Prohibited or unapproved gaming machine use

 27.—(1) A person (X) must not —

       (a) conduct gaming involving any prohibited gaming
            machine; or

       (b) use or operate, or allow the use or operation of, in or from
            Singapore any prohibited gaming machine, for the
            purposes of gaming activities by another person,

where X knows, or ought reasonably to know, that the gaming
machine is a prohibited gaming machine.

 (2) A person (Y) must not —

       (a) conduct gaming involving a gaming machine or gaming
            machine game that is not approved under section 74; or

       (b) use or operate, or allow the use or operation of, for the
            purposes of gaming activities by another person, a gaming
            machine or gaming machine game that is not approved
            under section 74,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
76  NO. 15 OF 2022

where Y knows, or ought reasonably to know, that the gaming
machine is a gaming machine or the gaming machine game is a game
(as the case may be) that is not approved under section 74.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), a person who contravenes
subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and —

       (a) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
            $500,000 and shall also be punished with imprisonment for
            a term not exceeding 7 years; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $700,000 and shall also
            be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            10 years.

 (4) However, a person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) by
engaging in conduct described in section 8(3) shall be guilty of an
offence and —

       (a) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
            $200,000 and shall also be punished with imprisonment for
            a term not exceeding 5 years; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $300,000 and shall also
            be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            7 years.

 (5) An individual who plays a game of chance for a prize involving
any prohibited gaming machine or gaming machine that is not
approved under section 74 in Singapore where he or she knows, or
ought reasonably to know, that the gaming machine is a prohibited
gaming machine or a gaming machine that is not so approved shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

 (6) In determining the amount of any penalty for any offence under
this section, the court is to take into account the number of prohibited
gaming machines involved in the commission of the offence.

 (7) An offence under this section is an arrestable offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          77

 (8) This section does not extend to engaging in conduct within a
casino.

Proxy gambling outside of gaming machine room

 28.—(1) This section applies only in respect of the playing of a
gaming machine that is played by —

       (a) inserting a coin or gaming token into the machine;

       (b) causing gaming machine credits to be registered by the
            machine;

       (c) making a bet on the machine; or

       (d) causing the activation of any process relating to the gaming
            machine game of the machine,

such as but not limited to a jackpot machine.

 (2) An individual who is, by virtue of section 7(5), regarded as
participating in a game of chance using a gaming machine located in a
gaming machine room and a player of the game, even though he or
she is not in the same gaming machine room, shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (3) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) applies whether or not the
individual —

       (a) who is in a gaming machine room; and

       (b) who participates in a game of chance using a gaming
            machine located in the gaming machine room on behalf of
            an accused charged with an offence under subsection (1),

is convicted of any offence under the provisions of this Act.

 (4) An offence under this section is an arrestable offence.

 (5) Strict liability applies to an offence under subsection (2).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
78  NO. 15 OF 2022

Supplying prohibited or unapproved gaming machines

 29.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person —

       (a) supplies any object or thing, or takes part in the supply of
            any object or thing, to another;

       (b) the object or thing is a gaming machine that is not an
            approved gaming machine;

       (c) the person knows that, or ought reasonably to have known,
            that object or thing is to be used in the provision of a
            gambling service outside of a casino; and

       (d) the person knows that, or is reckless as to whether, the
            object or thing is not an approved gaming machine.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) —

       (a) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
            $500,000 and shall also be punished with imprisonment for
            a term not exceeding 7 years; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $700,000 and shall also
            be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            10 years.

 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply to —

       (a) the acquisition of possession by a licensee or class
            licensee, or supply of a gaming machine to a licensee or
            class licensee, as a customer of the supplier of a gaming
            machine in order for the customer to decide whether or not
            to purchase or lease the gaming machine;

       (b) the acquisition of possession or supply of a gaming
            machine if the Authority has agreed to the making of an
            application under section 73 to have the gaming machine
            evaluated by the Authority to be an approved gaming
            machine and the possession is for the purposes of the
            application; or

       (c) the acquisition of possession or supply of a gaming
            machine in any case where the Authority terminates an

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          79

            investigation of, or refuses to approve, such an application,
            if the possession is for the purpose of disposing of the
            gaming machine in a manner directed by the Authority and
            does not extend beyond a reasonable time.

 (4) In this section, “supply” includes carrying on any of the
following activities, or a combination of those activities, in relation to
any object or thing in Singapore, and whether or not the object or
thing is to remain in Singapore:

       (a) selling by wholesale or retail, and whether by tender,
            auction or otherwise, or agreeing to so sell;

       (b) bartering or exchanging;

       (c) offering for sale, barter or exchange or attempting to sell,
            barter or exchange;

       (d) offering or giving away for the purpose of advertisement or
            in furtherance of any trade or business;

       (e) doing any of the above as an agent or a broker, or by an
            agent or a broker, of another.

 (5) An offence under this section is an arrestable offence.

          Division 4 — Protection of underaged individuals
                            and excluded persons

Gambling with underaged individuals

 30.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person —

       (a) engages in gambling (that is not social gambling) with an
            underaged individual; or

       (b) engages in gambling (that is not social gambling) with
            another person on behalf of an underaged individual.

                                         Illustrations

      Accepting a bet from, or giving or sending an acknowledgment of a bet to, an
underaged individual.

      Allowing an underaged individual to play a gaming machine in any gaming
machine room.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
80  NO. 15 OF 2022

      Selling a ticket in a lottery to an underaged individual.

      Accepting an entry in a lottery from an underaged individual.

      Opening a betting account for betting, or registering an underaged individual
as a player in a game of chance, conducted by remote communication.

 (2) However, an accused is not guilty of an offence under this
section if the accused proves, on a balance of probabilities, that the
accused —

       (a) had reasonable grounds to believe and did make reasonable
            inquiries to ascertain that the individual who is gambling
            (called in this section the gambler) was not an underaged
            individual; or

       (b) had received from the gambler evidence purporting to
            show that the gambler was not an underaged individual,
            and that it was reasonable to and the accused did accept
            that evidence as correct.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $300,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 years or to both.

 (4) Subsection (1)(b) does not apply in respect of the playing of a
gaming machine that is played by —

       (a) inserting a coin or gaming token into the machine;

       (b) causing gaming machine credits to be registered by the
            machine;

       (c) making a bet on the machine; or

       (d) causing the activation of any process relating to the gaming
            machine game of the machine,

such as but not limited to a jackpot machine.

 (5) Strict liability applies to an offence under subsection (1).

Gambling by underaged individuals and excluded persons

 31.—(1) An underaged individual must not engage in gambling in
or from Singapore.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          81

 (2) An underaged individual who contravenes subsection (1) shall
be guilty of an offence and, subject to subsection (5), shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,500.

 (3) An excluded person must not engage in any gambling in or from
Singapore in contravention of any gambling ban applicable to him or
her.

 (4) An excluded person who contravenes subsection (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (5) Despite section 42(2) and (3) of the Children and Young Persons
Act 1993, an underaged individual must not be imprisoned, or
detained in a detention centre, as a consequence of a failure to pay a
fine that is imposed in respect of an offence under this section.

 (6) Strict liability applies to offences under subsections (2) and (4),
respectively.

 (7) This section does not apply to gambling within any casino or to
social gambling.

Offence by underaged individual or excluded person entering
gambling venue, etc.

 32.—(1) An underaged individual must not —

       (a) intentionally enter or remain in any approved gambling
            venue during a restricted period of the approved gambling
            venue; or

       (b) intentionally open or re‑open an account with a licensee to
            engage in general remote gambling.

 (2) An excluded person must not —

       (a) intentionally enter or remain in any gaming machine room
            during a restricted period of the gaming machine room
            except to perform defined work within the room; or

       (b) intentionally open or re‑open an account with a licensee to
            engage in general remote gambling,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
82  NO. 15 OF 2022

in contravention of any gambling ban applicable to the excluded
person.

 (3) An underaged individual who contravenes subsection (1) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1,500.

 (4) An excluded person who contravenes subsection (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (5) However, an underaged individual is not guilty of an offence
under this section for contravening subsection (1)(a) if the underaged
individual proves, on a balance of probabilities, that —

       (a) the underaged individual did not know or could not
            reasonably have known that the place or premises is an
            approved gambling venue; or

       (b) the entry or remaining in an approved gambling venue
            during the restricted period was to comply with a direction
            given to the underaged individual by or on behalf of a
            police officer or other public officer or a public body in
            exercise of a power under any written law.

 (6) However, an excluded person is not guilty of an offence under
this section for contravening subsection (2)(a) if the excluded person
proves, on a balance of probabilities, that —

       (a) the excluded person did not know or could not reasonably
            have known that the place or premises is a gaming machine
            room;

       (b) the entry or remaining in the gaming machine room during
            the restricted period was to comply with a direction given
            to the excluded person by or on behalf of a police officer or
            other public officer or a public body in exercise of a power
            under any written law; or

       (c) for an individual who is an excluded person solely by
            reason of the operation of section 165A(1)(a) or (b) of the
            Casino Control Act 2006, the excluded person did not

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          83

            know or could not reasonably have known that he or she is
            an excluded person because the electronic transaction
            system provided by the NCPG to the public to access the
            list of excluded persons is for any reason unavailable for
            general use or malfunctions at the material time.

 (7) In this section and section 33, “approved gambling venue”
excludes any place or premises in Singapore where a place‑based
gambling service is lawfully provided for place‑based gambling
involving —

       (a) participating in any lottery; or

       (b) betting connected with a sporting event happening in
            Singapore or elsewhere and at which a live broadcast of the
            sporting event is not provided at the place or premises.

 (8) Despite section 42(2) and (3) of the Children and Young Persons
Act 1993, an underaged individual must not be imprisoned, or
detained in a detention centre, as a consequence of a failure to pay a
fine that is imposed in respect of an offence under this section.

Offence by underaged individual using false evidence of age,
etc.

 33.—(1) An underaged individual who uses any evidence that is
false in a material particular in relation to the individual in order —

       (a) to gamble in or from Singapore;

       (b) to enter or remain in an approved gambling venue during a
            restricted period of the approved gambling venue; or

       (c) to open or re‑open an account with a licensee to engage in
            general remote gambling,

shall be guilty of an offence and, subject to subsection (2), shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

 (2) Despite section 42(2) and (3) of the Children and Young Persons
Act 1993, an underaged individual must not be imprisoned, or
detained in a detention centre, as a consequence of a failure to pay a
fine that is imposed in respect of an offence under this section.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
84  NO. 15 OF 2022

 (3) An excluded person who uses any evidence that is false in a
material particular in relation to the excluded person in order —

       (a) to enter or remain in any gaming machine room during a
            restricted period of the gaming machine room; or

       (b) to engage in general remote gambling in or from
            Singapore,

in contravention of any gambling ban applicable to the excluded
person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (4) This section does not apply to social gambling.

Inducement to underaged individuals to gamble

 34.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person sends (or
causes to be sent) to an underaged individual any inducement to
gamble that is not social gambling.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $300,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 years or to both.

 (3) In addition to section 86(1), a person is not guilty of an offence
under subsection (1) if the person proves, on a balance of
probabilities, that —

       (a) the person does not receive any direct or indirect benefit
            (whether financial or not) for sending or causing to be sent
            that inducement; and

       (b) the inducement was not sent in the course of any business.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (1), it does not matter whether or
not the gambling actually carried out by an underaged individual —

       (a) is the same as that invitation in the inducement; or

       (b) is in the manner so invited in the inducement,

provided that the gambling actually carried out is a probable
consequence of that invitation.

 (5) Strict liability applies to an offence under subsection (1).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          85

Unlawful employment of young person in gambling

 35.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), a person who employs in
Singapore an individual who is below 21 years of age (called in this
section a young person) to conduct a betting operation, gaming or a
lottery in or from Singapore in accordance with arrangements made
by that person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $300,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 years or to both.

 (2) A reference in subsection (1) to employing a young person
includes, in particular, a reference —

       (a) to employing or engaging the young person whether or not
            under a contract of employment; and

       (b) to causing or permitting the young person to be employed
            or engaged.

 (3) However, a person (A) is not guilty of an offence under this
section if A proves, on a balance of probabilities, that —

       (a) A had reasonable grounds to believe and did make
            reasonable inquiries to ascertain that the individual
            employed or to be employed was not a young person; or

       (b) A had received from the individual employed or to be
            employed evidence purporting to show that that individual
            was not a young person, and that it was reasonable to and A
            did accept that evidence as correct.

 (4) Nothing in this section prohibits or makes unlawful a licensee or
a class licensee engaging in any of the following in connection with
the licensee or class licensee providing a gambling service authorised
by or under the licence or class licence thereof:

       (a) the employing or engaging of a young person (whether or
            not under a contract of employment) to perform any
            managerial, clerical, secretarial or administrative work that
            is wholly performed within enclosed premises;

       (b) the causing of or permitting a young person to be employed
            or engaged, to perform any managerial, clerical, secretarial

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
86  NO. 15 OF 2022

    or administrative work that is wholly performed within
    enclosed premises.

                        Division 5 — Other offences

Possession of unlawful gambling instruments

 36.—(1) An individual who is in possession of any thing that may
reasonably be suspected of being an unlawful gambling instrument
when he or she is —

       (a) present at any unlawful gambling; or

       (b) in or near a place —

               (i) in which any unlawful gambling is taking place; or

              (ii) which is habitually used for unlawful gambling,

shall be guilty of an offence and —

       (c) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
            $500,000 and shall also be punished with imprisonment for
            a term not exceeding 7 years; but

       (d) where the individual is a repeat offender, shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $700,000 and shall also
            be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            10 years.

 (2) However, a person is not guilty of an offence under
subsection (1) if the person proves, on a balance of probabilities,
that —

       (a) the person did not know and could not reasonably be
            expected to know, that the money or thing concerned was
            an unlawful gambling instrument;

       (b) the money or thing concerned came into the person’s
            possession unsolicited and the person, as soon as the
            person became aware of its nature, took reasonable steps to
            destroy or otherwise surrender it to a police officer or an
            authorised officer; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          87

       (c) the person has a reasonable excuse to be in possession of
            any thing that may reasonably be suspected of being an
            unlawful gambling instrument.

 (3) The following offences are each a countable offence for the
purpose of the reference in subsection (1) to a “repeat offender”:

       (a) an offence under section 3 of the Betting Act 1960 repealed
            by this Act;

       (b) an offence under section 4 of the Common Gaming Houses
            Act 1961 repealed by this Act.

 (4) An offence under this section is an arrestable offence.

Providing credit for unlawful gambling

 37.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person offers or provides credit to another; and

       (b) the person knows, or ought reasonably to have known, that
            the credit is intended to be used for unlawful gambling.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) —

       (a) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
            $200,000 and shall also be punished with imprisonment for
            a term not exceeding 4 years; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $300,000 and shall also
            be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            7 years.

 (3) An offence under this section is an arrestable offence.

Unlawful interference with approved gaming machines, etc.

 38.—(1) A person who —

       (a) has possession of a device made or adapted, or intended by
            the person to be used, for interfering with the normal
            operation of any relevant gambling equipment;

       (b) does anything calculated, or likely to interfere with the
            normal operation of any relevant gambling equipment;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
88  NO. 15 OF 2022

       (c) does anything that is calculated to render any relevant
            gambling equipment (even if temporarily) incapable of
            producing, or of producing, a winning combination; or

       (d) does any act or thing calculated to interfere with any
            relevant gambling equipment under which the result
            obtained on the relevant gambling equipment is different
            to the result provided by the approved game,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to anything done in good faith in
connection with —

       (a) the installation, alteration, adjustment, maintenance or
            repair of any relevant gambling equipment by a recognised
            technician;

       (b) the carrying out of any installation, alteration, adjustment,
            maintenance or repair to effect a change of game directed
            by the Authority under section 78; or

       (c) the exercise by a police officer or an authorised officer of a
            function conferred or imposed by or under this Act.

 (3) A person who —

       (a) dishonestly, or because of gross negligence; and

       (b) during the design, manufacture, assembly, installation,
            alteration, adjustment, maintenance or repair of any
            relevant gambling equipment,

makes provision (including by fraudulent computer programming) to
subsequently gain any money or money equivalent or any financial
benefit for that person or another person or any advantage in the
operation of the relevant gambling equipment, shall be guilty of an
offence.

 (4) A person who, with intent to dishonestly obtain any money or
money equivalent or a financial benefit for the person or another
person, inserts, or causes to be inserted, in an approved gaming
machine in an approved gambling venue, or any peripheral
equipment for such an approved gaming machine, any thing other
than —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          89

       (a) a coin or token of the denomination or type displayed on
            the approved gaming machine as that to be used to operate
            or gain credit on the gaming machine;

       (b) a note of a denomination in order to operate or gain credit
            on the approved gaming machine; or

       (c) a card of a type authorised by the licensee for use in order
            to operate or gain credit on the approved gaming machine,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (5) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1), (3) or
(4) shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $150,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            7 years or to both; or

       (b) in the case of an entity, to a fine not exceeding $300,000.

 (6) An offence under this section is an arrestable offence.

 (7) In this section, “relevant gambling equipment” means any of the
following:

       (a) an approved gaming machine installed or used outside of a
            casino;

       (b) any peripheral equipment for an approved gaming machine
            installed or used outside of a casino;

       (c) any software, or any other machine, apparatus, appliance,
            equipment, instrument, communication device or other
            device, accessory or any other thing (whether or not of a
            similar kind), that is used, apparently used, likely to be
            used or capable of being used in providing a gambling
            service authorised under a licence or class licence.

                                         Illustrations

      Point‑of‑sale kiosks.

      Draw appliances and ball sets used in lottery draws.

      Software and programming code used to generate winning numbers.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
90  NO. 15 OF 2022

Unlawful interference with requisite surveillance system

 39.—(1) A person who —

       (a) has possession of a device made or adapted, or intended by
            the person to be used, for interfering with the normal
            operation of a requisite surveillance system in an approved
            gambling venue; or

       (b) does anything calculated, or likely to interfere with the
            normal operation of a requisite surveillance system in an
            approved gambling venue,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to anything done in good faith in
connection with —

       (a) the installation, alteration, adjustment, maintenance or
            repair by a recognised technician of any part of a requisite
            surveillance system in an approved gambling venue;

       (b) the carrying out of any installation, alteration, adjustment,
            maintenance or repair to effect a change to any part of the
            requisite surveillance system that is directed by the
            Authority under any provision of this Act; or

       (c) the exercise by a police officer or an authorised officer of a
            function conferred or imposed by or under any provision of
            this Act.

 (3) A person who —

       (a) dishonestly, or because of gross negligence; and

       (b) during the design, manufacture or assembly of any part of
            the requisite surveillance system of an approved gambling
            venue,

makes provision (including by fraudulent computer programming) to
subsequently gain any money or money equivalent or any financial
benefit for that person or another person or any advantage in the
operation of a requisite surveillance system shall be guilty of an
offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          91

 (4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) or (3)
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (5) An offence under this section is an arrestable offence.

            Division 6 — Forfeiture and other punishments

Forfeiture of seized articles, money, etc.

 40.—(1) If a person is convicted of an offence under this Act, the
court may, in addition to any other penalty that may be imposed, order
to be forfeited any equipment, thing, document, or any money or
money equivalent or other thing of value —

       (a) used in the commission of the offence and found in the
            possession of the person when the offence was committed;
            or

       (b) seized under this Act in relation to the offence.

 (2) A forfeiture order under subsection (1) —

       (a) may include such provision about the treatment of the
            equipment, thing, document, or any money or money
            equivalent or other thing of value, forfeited as the court
            thinks appropriate; and

       (b) subject to any provision made under paragraph (a), must be
            treated as requiring any person in possession of the
            equipment, thing, document, or any money or money
            equivalent or other thing of value, to surrender it to the
            Authority, a police officer or an authorised officer as soon
            as is reasonably practicable.

 (3) Subject to subsection (2), sections 364, 365 and 366 of the
Criminal Procedure Code 2010 apply to any equipment, thing,
document, or any money or money equivalent or other thing of value
forfeited under this section or section 41.

Forfeiture on conviction of unlawful gambling winnings

 41.—(1) If a person is convicted of an offence under section 28(2)
or 30(1)(b), a court may order that the convicted person forfeit —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
92  NO. 15 OF 2022

       (a) all winnings derived by the convicted person from the
            commission of the offence; and

       (b) all reward paid to the convicted person by the other person
            on whose behalf the convicted person engaged in
            gambling.

 (2) If the person convicted of an offence under section 30 or 31 is an
underaged individual or an excluded person, a court may order that
the convicted person forfeit all winnings derived by the convicted
person from the commission of the offence.

 (3) In this section, “winnings” —

       (a) means any money or money equivalent or any thing of
            value from gambling, even winnings in the form of a
            cheque or a ticket or other instrument authorising the
            payment of winnings; and

       (b) in relation to gaming activity that is playing a gaming
            machine, includes any coins left in the coin tray of the
            gaming machine when the offence was committed.

 (4) Without affecting section 46 of the Children and Young Persons
Act 1993, a reference in this section to a convicted underaged
individual includes a reference to an underaged individual who is
found guilty.

                                    PART 3

                  PRESUMPTIONS AND EVIDENCE

Presumptions in respect of unlawful gambling

 42.—(1) An individual who is found at a particular time —

       (a) in an unlawful gambling place; or

       (b) escaping from an unlawful gambling place,

before, upon or after the entry to the place by a police officer or an
authorised officer as authorised to do so under this Act, is to be
presumed, until the contrary is proved, to be or to have been gambling
in that unlawful gambling place.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          93

 (2) Subject to section 43(3), an individual who is found in
possession of a lottery ticket is to be presumed, until the contrary
is proved, to be participating in a lottery.

 (3) Where a gambling article is found in any premises, on the
occasion that a police officer or an authorised officer enters the place
as authorised to do so under this Act, gambling is to be presumed,
until the contrary is proved, to be taking place then or to have taken
place in those premises.

Presumptions in respect of conduct of betting operations,
lotteries, etc.

 43.—(1) An individual who is found —

       (a) in possession of any gambling article which is used, or
            appears to have been used or intended to be used, in
            conducting, or in connection with conducting, any betting
            operation or gaming;

       (b) accepting or receiving one or more bets, stakes or wagers
            relating to —

               (i) any race, competition, sporting event or other event
                   or process, taking place in Singapore or elsewhere;
                   or

              (ii) any game of chance; or

       (c) settling or paying, or to have settled or paid any money or
            money equivalent or any thing else of value, in respect of
            one or more bets or wagers relating to —

               (i) any race, competition, sporting event or other event
                   or process, taking place in Singapore or elsewhere;
                   or

              (ii) any game of chance,

is to be presumed, until the contrary is proved, to be conducting a
betting operation or to conduct gaming, as the case may be.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
94  NO. 15 OF 2022

 (2) An individual who is found —

       (a) in possession of any gambling article which is used, or
            appears to have been used or intended to be used, in
            conducting, or in connection with conducting, any lottery;

       (b) accepting or receiving one or more deposits of money or
            money equivalent for or in connection with the purchase of
            lottery tickets or an entitlement to participate in a lottery;
            or

       (c) distributing or paying, or to have distributed or paid any
            money or money equivalent or any thing of value, in
            Singapore in respect of a lottery,

is to be presumed, until the contrary is proved, to be conducting a
lottery.

 (3) If any lottery ticket is found to be offered for sale, sold or
distributed at any public place at any particular time, a lottery is to be
presumed, until the contrary is proved, to be conducted in or from that
public place at or about that particular time, regardless that the offer,
sale or distribution happens at that public place on only one occasion.

Presumption of using, etc., of premises as gambling place

 44.—(1) If a police officer or an authorised officer as authorised
under this Act to enter any premises —

       (a) is, at a particular time, wilfully prevented from, or is
            obstructed or delayed in, entering or re‑entering those
            premises or any part of those premises;

       (b) finds at a particular time, an external or internal door of, or
            a means of access to, those premises to be fitted with a bolt,
            bar, chain, or any means or device —

               (i) for the purpose of preventing, delaying or
                   obstructing the entry or re‑entry into those
                   premises of a police officer or an authorised
                   officer; or

              (ii) for giving an alarm in case of such entry or re‑entry;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          95

       (c) finds those premises at a particular time to be fitted or
            provided with —

               (i) any gambling article for conducting a betting
                   operation, a game of chance or a lottery; or

              (ii) any equipment, device or other thing for concealing,
                   removing or destroying any gambling article;

       (d) finds at a particular time in the possession of any individual
            in those premises —

               (i) any gambling article for conducting a betting
                   operation, a game of chance or a lottery; or

              (ii) any equipment, device or other thing for concealing,
                   removing or destroying any gambling article; or

       (e) finds at a particular time any individual in those premises
            concealing, removing or destroying any gambling article,

every occupier of those premises is to be presumed, until the contrary
is proved, to have used or allowed to be used those premises as an
unlawful gambling place at or about that particular time, and
gambling is to be presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have
taken place in those premises at or about that particular time.

 (2) If a police officer or an authorised officer as authorised under
this Act to enter premises enters any premises at a particular time,
and —

       (a) the premises are upon entering found to be fitted or
            provided with any remote communication equipment
            arranged in such a manner as to suggest that the
            equipment is or was being used for the receiving or
            transmitting of any information relating to —

               (i) any race, competition, sporting event or other event
                   or process, taking place in Singapore or elsewhere;

              (ii) the likelihood of anything occurring, or not
                   occurring, in Singapore or elsewhere; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
96  NO. 15 OF 2022

             (iii) whether anything is or is not true,

       (a) regardless that the remote communication equipment has
            been disconnected, rendered inoperable or tampered with;
            and

       (b) after entering, 2 or more messages by remote
            communication are received, by an individual in those
            premises or on any remote communication equipment at
            those premises, enquiring about the results, commentary or
            dividends payable on any matter mentioned in
            paragraph (a)(i), (ii) or (iii),

every occupier of those premises is to be presumed, until the contrary
is proved, to have used or allowed to be used those premises as a
betting information centre.

 (3) If —

       (a) a police officer or an authorised officer as authorised under
            this Act to enter any place or premises enters any place or
            premises at a particular time; and

       (b) after entering, 2 or more messages by remote
            communication are received, by an individual in the
            place or premises or on any remote communication
            equipment in that place or those premises, relating to —

               (i) the accepting, receiving or negotiating of bets or
                   wagers; or

              (ii) any results, commentary or dividends payable on any
                   matter mentioned in subsection (2)(a)(i), (ii) or (iii),

every occupier of that place or those premises is to be presumed, until
the contrary is proved, to have used or allowed to be used that place or
those premises to conduct a betting operation.

 (4) Where one or more gaming machines are found on a part of any
premises wholly occupied by an entity for its purposes, being a part
that is accessible only to members of the entity, the occupier of those
premises is to be presumed, until the contrary is proved, to be using or
allowing the premises to be used to conduct a game of chance, the
participants of which are all the members of the entity.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          97

Presumption of assisting

 45.—(1) An individual who acts as a look‑out, door attendant or
guard in respect of any place or premises which are organised or
managed as an unlawful gambling place is to be presumed, until the
contrary is proved, to have assisted in organising or conducting the
unlawful gambling place.

 (2) If —

       (a) a police officer or an authorised officer as authorised under
            this Act to enter places or premises enters any place or
            premises at a particular time; and

       (b) upon entering, an individual is found in that place or those
            premises concealing, erasing, tampering with or destroying
            any gambling article relating to any betting, game of
            chance or lottery,

the individual is to be presumed, until the contrary is proved, to be
assisting the conduct of a betting operation, game of chance or lottery
in or from that place or those premises.

Presumptions relating to inducements to gamble

 46.—(1) If an inducement to gamble (within the meaning of
section 16) refers to a person to whom any payment may be made, or
from whom information may be obtained, in relation to any
gambling, the person so referred to is to be presumed to have sent
the inducement (or caused it to be sent) unless the person proves that
the person —

       (a) had not consented to being referred to; and

       (b) was not in any way a party to, and was wholly ignorant of,
            the sending of the inducement.

 (2) If an inducement to gamble (within the meaning of section 16) is
sent to an individual at any school or other place of education, and
that individual (called in this section the recipient) is an underaged
individual —

       (a) the person sending or causing the inducement to be sent
            (called in this section the sender) is to be presumed to have

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
98  NO. 15 OF 2022

            known that the recipient is an underaged individual, unless
            the sender proves that the sender had reasonable grounds
            for believing the recipient is not an underaged individual;
            and

       (b) the sender is to be presumed, until the contrary is proved, to
            have sent the inducement for fee or reward.

Evidence

 47.—(1) In proceedings for an offence under this Act, an assertion
by the prosecution —

       (a) as to a matter specified in subsection (2);

       (b) made in writing and verified by an affidavit sworn by a
            police officer or an authorised officer; and

       (c) served on the defendant not less than 7 days before the
            hearing at which the assertion is to be tendered,

is sufficient evidence of the matter so asserted in the absence of proof
to the contrary.

 (2) An assertion may be made under this section only in relation to
any of the following matters:

       (a) that any document produced before the court is a lottery
            ticket of a public lottery;

       (b) that any document is an account, a memorandum, a riddle
            or a record of stakes or wagers in or relating to any public
            lottery;

       (c) that any thing is a gambling article.

Special provision for offences involving remote gambling

 48. On the trial of any person (called the accused) for an offence
under section 18, 19 or 20 where the offence committed involves
remote gambling, it is not necessary for the prosecution to prove the
identity of any particular individual facilitated by the accused to
gamble in Singapore in contravention of section 18, 19 or 20 if —

       (a) the remote gambling transactions are carried out by anyone
            using equipment or facilities provided by the accused; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          99

       (b) those facilities are accessed, or are available for access, by
            end‑users in Singapore.

Certain witnesses exempt from liability

 49. An individual who is examined as a witness before a court in
any proceedings for an offence under this Act is exempt from any
criminal or civil liability in relation to that offence if the individual
receives from the court a certificate in writing to the effect that the
individual has made true and faithful disclosure to the best of the
individual’s knowledge of all things as to which the individual has
been examined.

Protection of informants

 50.—(1) Except as provided in subsection (3), no witness in any
civil or criminal proceedings is obliged —

       (a) to disclose the name and address of any informer who has
            given information with respect to an offence under this
            Act; or

       (b) to answer any question if the answer would lead, or would
            tend to lead, to the discovery of the name or address of any
            informer.

 (2) If any record, document or paper which is in evidence or liable
to inspection in any civil or criminal proceedings contains any entry
in which any informer is named or described or which may lead to his
or her discovery, the court is to cause those entries to be concealed
from view or to be obliterated so far as may be necessary to protect
the informer from discovery.

 (3) If —

       (a) in any proceedings before a court for an offence under this
            Act, the court, after full inquiry into the case, is satisfied
            that an informer wilfully made a material statement which
            the informer knew or believed to be false or did not believe
            to be true; or

       (b) in any other proceedings, the court is of the opinion that
            justice cannot be fully done between the parties to the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
100  NO. 15 OF 2022

            proceedings without the disclosure of the name of an
            informer,

the court may permit inquiry and require full disclosure concerning
the informer.

Abetment not affected

 51. To avoid doubt, nothing in sections 6(2), 8(3) and 10(2) affects
the law relating to abetment of offences.

                                    PART 4

                                 LICENSING

                           Division 1 — Licences

Types of licences

 52.—(1) The Authority may grant different types of licences under
this Part.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the types of licences may be as
follows:

       (a) specified kinds of gambling;

       (b) specified kinds of betting operations, conduct of gaming or
            conduct of lotteries;

       (c) gambling, or betting operations, conduct of gaming or
            conduct of lotteries, undertaken in or in connection with
            specified types of gambling venues;

       (d) facilities of a specified nature, or adapted or presented in a
            specified way, and used for purposes of gambling;

       (e) specified types of gaming machines;

        (f) specified types of gambling articles (other than gaming
            machines) or prizes.

Application for or to renew licence

 53.—(1) An application for or to renew a licence must be made to
the Authority in accordance with this section.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          101

 (2) An application for or to renew a licence must —

       (a) be in the form and manner the Authority specifies;

       (b) be accompanied by an application fee, if prescribed;

       (c) contain —

               (i) an address in Singapore at which notices and other
                   documents under this Act for the applicant may be
                   served; or

              (ii) the name and address of one or more persons in
                   Singapore authorised by the applicant to accept on
                   the applicant’s behalf service of notices and other
                   documents under this Act; and

       (d) be accompanied by the prescribed information and any
            other additional information that the Authority requires to
            decide on the application.

 (3) In addition, an application to renew a licence must be made no
later than a prescribed period before the date of expiry of the licence,
unless otherwise allowed by the Authority in any particular case
which must then be treated as a late renewal application.

 (4) The Authority may refuse to consider an application for or to
renew a licence —

       (a) that is incomplete or not made in accordance with this
            section; or

       (b) where an investigation or inquiry mentioned in
            subsection (5) in relation to the application is refused by
            the applicant.

 (5) Upon receiving an application for or to renew a licence, the
Authority may carry out, or arrange to be carried out by any
authorised officer, such investigations and inquiries in relation to the
application as the Authority considers necessary for a proper
consideration of the application, which may include an inspection
of either or both the following:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
102  NO. 15 OF 2022

       (a) the place or premises on or at which the applicant intends
            to provide the gambling service to be authorised by the
            licence;

       (b) any vehicle, equipment or other thing which the applicant
            intends to use to provide the gambling service in the
            application.

Grant of licences

 54.—(1) Subject to this section, after considering any application
under section 53 for or to renew a licence, the Authority may —

       (a) on payment of —

               (i) the applicable licence fee (if prescribed), grant the
                   applicant a licence authorising the applicant to
                   provide the gambling service authorised by the
                   licence; or

              (ii) a renewal fee (if prescribed) or, in the case of a late
                   renewal application a late renewal fee (if prescribed),
                   renew the licence; or

       (b) refuse to grant or renew the licence, as the case may be.

 (2) In deciding whether an applicant should be granted a licence, or
the applicant’s licence should be renewed, and the conditions to
impose or modify, the Authority must have regard, and give such
weight as the Authority considers appropriate, to all of the following
matters:

       (a) whether the applicant is or is not —

               (i) carrying on or intending to provide any other
                   gambling service; or

              (ii) a holder of another licence or already a class
                   licensee;

       (b) the demand for the gambling service in the application;

       (c) whether the applicant does or does not have (or is likely or
            unlikely to have) the financial capacity and ability to
            provide the gambling service in the application in

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          103

            accordance with the provisions of this Act and according to
            the applicable standards;

       (d) whether the applicant, and every responsible executive and
            category 1 key officer of the applicant, is a suitable person
            to be involved in providing the gambling service in the
            application;

       (e) whether the licensee has gambling service agents;

        (f) whether it is otherwise contrary to the public interest or
            national security of Singapore for the licence to be granted
            to the applicant.

 (3) To avoid doubt —

       (a) the Authority is not confined to consideration of the
            matters specified in subsection (2) and may take into
            account such other matters and evidence as may be
            relevant; and

       (b) this Act applies to an application for the renewal of a
            licence as if it were an application for a new licence.

 (4) Without affecting subsection (1), the Authority may grant a
renewal of a licence with or without modifying the conditions of the
licence, but section 58(2), (3) and (4) does not apply to or in relation
to granting a renewal of a licence with modifications to the conditions
of the licence.

 (5) A licence must not be granted to any person who is not an entity.

Suitability assessment

 55.—(1) For the purpose of determining under this Act whether or
not an applicant or a licensee and where necessary, whether a
responsible executive or key officer of the applicant or licensee, is a
suitable person to be involved in providing a gambling service, the
Authority must have regard, and give such weight as the Authority
considers appropriate, to all of the following matters:

       (a) any available information whether or not the applicant,
            licensee, responsible executive or key officer has been
            convicted of any of the following offences:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
104  NO. 15 OF 2022

            (i) an offence under the provisions of this Act;

           (ii) an offence under the Casino Control Act 2006;

           (iii) an offence under the repealed Betting Act 1960;

           (iv) an offence under the repealed Common Gaming
                 Houses Act 1961;

            (v) an offence under the repealed Private Lotteries
                 Act 2011;

           (vi) an offence under the repealed Remote Gambling
                 Act 2014;

          (vii) an offence under the Gambling Duties Act 2022;

         (viii) an offence under Part 6 of the Corruption, Drug
                 Trafficking and Other Serious Crimes (Confiscation
                 of Benefits) Act 1992;

                                                                         [Act 15 of 2023 wef 08/02/2024]

           (ix) an offence under section 19 of the Moneylenders
                 Act 2008;

            (x) an offence under the Organised Crime Act 2015;

           (xi) an offence under the Terrorism (Suppression of
                 Financing) Act 2002;

          (xii) an offence under the United Nations Act 2001;

         (xiii) an offence involving dishonesty or moral turpitude,
                 whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

     (b) any available information with respect to the participation
          of the individual (who is an applicant, a licensee,
          responsible executive or key officer) in any criminal
          activity, including whether or not he or she was a
          responsible executive or key officer of a person
          convicted of any offence mentioned in paragraph (a);

     (c) any evidence of the exercise of —

            (i) any regulatory action in relation to the applicant,
                 licensee, or responsible executive or key officer as a
                 licensee or class licensee;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          105

              (ii) any disciplinary action under the Casino Control Act
                   2006 in relation to the applicant, licensee,
                   responsible executive or key officer; or

             (iii) any regulatory action in relation to any licensee or
                   class licensee that the applicant, licensee, responsible
                   executive or key officer was a responsible executive
                   or key officer thereof;

       (d) any available information with respect to whether —

               (i) the applicant or licensee has been placed in
                   receivership, gone into liquidation; or

              (ii) the responsible executive or key officer has been
                   adjudged bankrupt;

       (e) the profile of past compliance by the applicant, licensee,
            responsible executive or key officer (as the case may be)
            with the provisions of this Act and the requirements by or
            under any written law mentioned in paragraph (a), and
            with the applicable standards.

 (2) Despite any other law, the Commissioner of Police or a law
enforcement agency may, on the request of the Authority, provide a
report in respect of any one or more of the matters in subsection (1)
for the purposes of a suitability assessment under this Act.

 (3) If the Authority does not consider an individual suitable under
this section, the Authority must, by written notice given to any
licensee that the individual is or is to be a key officer thereof, notify
the licensee concerned of the adverse assessment of suitability within
28 days after the decision is made.

 (4) If the Authority does not consider an individual suitable under
this section because of information that is classified by the Authority
as security sensitive information, the Authority is not required to
provide any reasons for the Authority’s adverse assessment of
suitability decision other than that the decision was made on public
interest grounds under this section.

 (5) To avoid doubt, for the purpose of determining whether or not a
person or an individual is a suitable person to be involved in

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
106  NO. 15 OF 2022

providing a gambling service, the Authority is not confined to
consideration of the matters specified in subsection (1) and may take
into account such other matters and evidence as may be relevant.

Licence validity

 56.—(1) Every licence granted under this Part is in force for the
period specified in the licence —

       (a) except when it is suspended under Part 7; or

       (b) unless it is earlier revoked under Part 7.

 (2) Every licence must be in the form the Authority determines.

Conditions of licence

 57.—(1) In granting a licence to any person, the Authority may
impose such conditions as the Authority considers requisite or
expedient having regard to the purposes of this Act.

 (2) In particular, in granting a licence authorising the provision of a
gambling service, the Authority may impose conditions that are
necessary, expedient or conducive to the attainment or furtherance of
the licensing objectives, such as —

       (a) conditions fixing the kind of gambling or betting, the
            games of chance or lotteries involved in providing the
            gambling service;

       (b) conditions fixing the maximum or minimum number,
            amount or quantity, or both, of any of the following during
            the validity period of the licence or any part of that period:

               (i) the bets or wagers;

              (ii) the gaming machines involved in providing the
                   gambling service;

             (iii) the amount and number or type of the prizes to be
                   offered in providing the gambling service;

             (iv) the number of tickets or chances to be offered and the
                   prices and denominations of those tickets or chances;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          107

(c) conditions fixing the hours of gambling, or the maximum
     number of gamblers to whom facilities to gamble may be
     made available at any time during the provision of the
     gambling service;

(d) conditions requiring advertisements about the gambling
     service authorised by the licence —

       (i) to be published only to certain classes of persons;

      (ii) to contain certain content which may, in particular,
            require specified words to be included in the
            advertisement;

      (iii) to not contain certain content;

      (iv) not to be published in certain types of publications or
            media; and

       (v) to be approved by the Authority before they are
            published in Singapore;

(e) conditions restricting or prohibiting, or requiring the prior
     approval of the Authority for —

       (i) the sending of inducements to gamble through the
            gambling service authorised by the licence; and

      (ii) the practice that the licensee adopts in connection
            with offering or providing the gambling service
            authorised by the licence;

(f) conditions requiring the facilities and equipment provided
     for persons conducting monitoring and surveillance of
     operations of the gambling service to conform to the
     applicable standards;

(g) conditions requiring the licensee to establish and maintain
     appropriate internal policies, procedures and controls to
     encourage responsible gambling among customers of the
     gambling service and to minimise the possibility of
     problem gambling connected with the gambling service;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
108  NO. 15 OF 2022

       (h) conditions concerning the management of the gambling
            service provided, including the records that must be
            maintained and reporting requirements;

        (i) conditions concerning the management, application, and
            distribution of funds derived from gambling through the
            gambling service;

        (j) conditions restricting or prohibiting a manner of disposal
            of approved gaming machines or approved peripheral
            equipment for a gaming machine used by the licensee in
            providing the gambling service;

       (k) conditions requiring the licensee to be responsible for
            every employee of the licensee and every gambling service
            agent of the licensee in providing any gambling service
            authorised by the licence; and

        (l) conditions requiring the licensee to undergo (at its own
            cost) such audit as the Authority may require to ascertain
            the licensee’s compliance with —

               (i) the provisions of this Act or a standard applicable to
                   the licensee; or

              (ii) the conditions of the licence granted to that licensee.

 (3) An audit referred to in subsection (2)(l) must be carried out by
authorised officers or other officers of the Authority or such qualified
individuals approved by the Authority for that purpose.

Modifying conditions of licence

 58.—(1) Subject to this section, it is lawful for the Authority to
modify the conditions of a licence without compensating the licensee
concerned.

 (2) Before modifying any condition of a licence, the Authority
must, unless the Authority considers that it is impracticable or
undesirable to do so, give notice to the licensee holding that
licence —

       (a) stating that the Authority proposes to make the
            modification in the manner as specified in the notice; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          109

       (b) specifying the time (being not less than 7 days from the
            date of service of notice on the licensee) within which the
            licensee may make written representations to the Authority
            with respect to the proposed modification.

 (3) Upon receiving any written representation mentioned in
subsection (2), the Authority must consider that representation and
may —

       (a) reject the representation;

       (b) amend the proposed modification of any condition of a
            licence in such manner as the Authority thinks fit having
            regard to the representation; or

       (c) withdraw the proposed modification.

 (4) Where —

       (a) the Authority rejects any written representation under
            subsection (3)(a);

       (b) the Authority amends any proposed modification to any
            condition of a licence under subsection (3)(b); or

       (c) no written representation is received by the Authority
            within the time specified in subsection (2)(b), or any
            written representation made under that subsection is
            subsequently withdrawn,

the Authority must issue a written direction to the licensee in question
requiring the licensee, within the time specified by the Authority, to
give effect to the modification as specified in the notice under
subsection (2) or as amended by the Authority, as the case may be.

Restriction on transfer and surrender of licence

 59.—(1) A licence, and any rights, benefits or privileges under the
licence, are not transferable or assignable to any other person
unless —

       (a) the licence contains a condition authorising the transfer or
            assignment; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
110  NO. 15 OF 2022

       (b) the Authority consents in writing to the transfer or
            assignment.

 (2) Any consent under subsection (1) may be given subject to
compliance with such conditions as the Authority thinks fit to
impose, which may include conditions modifying, or requiring or
otherwise providing for the making of modifications to, the
conditions of the licence; but section 58(2), (3) and (4) does not
apply to or in relation to these modifications to the conditions of the
licence.

 (3) A transfer or an assignment, or purported transfer or
assignment, of a licence, or of any rights, benefits or privileges
under the licence, is void and of no effect —

       (a) if the licence is not capable of transfer or assignment;

       (b) if the transfer or assignment, or purported transfer or
            assignment, is in breach of a condition of the licence; or

       (c) if there has, before the transfer or assignment or purported
            transfer or assignment, been a contravention of a condition
            subject to compliance with which the consent required by
            subsection (1) is given.

 (4) Every licence is not capable of being surrendered without the
written consent of the Authority, and any surrender or purported
surrender of a licence is void if it is without such consent.

                      Division 2 — Class licences for
                       lower‑risk gambling services

Class licences

 60.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, determine a
class licence that authorises a person to which the order applies to
provide a gambling service, or a class or description of gambling
service, without a licence —

       (a) for a specified period or indefinitely, or to an extent
            specified in that order; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          111

       (b) subject to such conditions necessary, expedient or
            conducive to the attainment or furtherance of the
            licensing objectives and as may be specified in that order.

 (2) To avoid doubt, there may be more than one class licence
determined, and according (but not limited) to any of the following:

       (a) specified kinds of gambling;

       (b) specified kinds of betting operations, conduct of gaming or
            conduct of lotteries;

       (c) gambling, or betting operations, conduct of gaming or
            conduct of lotteries, undertaken in or in connection with
            specified types of gambling venues;

       (d) facilities of a specified nature, or adapted or presented in a
            specified way, and used for purposes of gambling;

       (e) specified types of gaming machines;

        (f) specified types of gambling articles (other than gaming
            machines) or prizes;

       (g) specified types of customers who may engage in gambling
            using the gambling service authorised by the class licence.

 (3) An order under subsection (1) continues in force, unless it is
revoked, for such period as may be specified in the order.

Variation and revocation of class licence

 61.—(1) Subject to this section, the Minister may, by order in the
Gazette, vary a class licence by —

       (a) varying or revoking any condition specified in the class
            licence; or

       (b) specifying additional conditions of the class licence.

 (2) Before varying a class licence or revoking an order under
section 60 for a class licence, the Authority designated by the
Minister must, unless it considers it impractical or undesirable in the
circumstances of the case, cause to be published, in accordance with
subsection (3), a written notice that —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
112  NO. 15 OF 2022

       (a) states that the Minister proposes to vary the class licence,
            or to end the class licence;

       (b) describes the proposed variation or ending; and

       (c) invites interested persons to make representations about
            the proposed variation or ending by a specified date that is
            at least 14 days after the date of publication of the notice.

 (3) A notice under subsection (2) must be published on the
prescribed website or in one or more other forms that are readily
accessible by the public.

 (4) The Minister must, before varying a class licence determined
under an order under section 60 or revoking such an order, give due
consideration to any representations made to the Authority pursuant
to the notice given in accordance with subsection (2).

Conditions applicable to class licensee

 62.—(1) Without limiting section 60(1) or 61, the conditions
subject to which a class licensee may authorise the provision of a
gambling service may include any of the following:

       (a) conditions fixing the maximum or minimum number,
            amount or quantity, or both, of any of the following
            connected with the gambling service authorised by the
            class licence:

               (i) the bets or wagers or the tickets or chances to be
                   offered;

              (ii) the gaming machines involved in providing the
                   gambling service;

             (iii) the amount and number or type of the prizes to be
                   offered in providing the gambling service;

       (b) conditions fixing the hours of gambling, or the maximum
            number of gamblers to whom facilities to gamble may be
            made available at any time during the provision of the
            gambling service;

       (c) conditions restricting or prohibiting any property (whether
            real or personal) or services being offered or used as a prize

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          113

     for gambling carried on in connection with the gambling
     service, which may include —

       (i) specifying a quantity or dollar value of any money or
            money equivalent that may not be offered or used as
            a prize for any such gambling; and

      (ii) specifying circumstances in which —

             (A) any money or money equivalent or any thing
                   else of value may not be offered or used as a
                   prize for gambling; or

             (B) a quantity or dollar value of any money or
                   money equivalent or any thing else of value
                   may not be offered or used as a prize for
                   gambling;

(d) conditions requiring advertisements about the gambling
     service authorised by the class licence —

       (i) to be published only to certain classes of persons;

      (ii) to contain certain content which may, in particular,
            require specified words to be included in the
            advertisement;

      (iii) to not contain certain content;

      (iv) not to be published in certain types of publications or
            media; and

       (v) to be approved by the Authority before they are
            published in Singapore;

(e) conditions restricting or prohibiting, or requiring prior
     approval of the Authority for —

       (i) the sending of inducements to gamble through the
            gambling service authorised by the class licence; and

      (ii) the practice that the licensee adopts in connection
            with offering or providing the gambling service
            authorised by the class licence;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
114  NO. 15 OF 2022

        (f) conditions fixing the frequency of the gambling service
            provided under the class licence;

       (g) conditions concerning the management of the gambling
            service provided, including the records that must be
            maintained and reporting requirements;

       (h) conditions requiring to be done or not to be done such
            things as are specified or are of a description specified,
            except insofar as the Authority specified in that class
            licence consents to the class licensee doing or not doing
            them;

        (i) conditions requiring the class licensee to refer for
            determination by the Authority specified in that class
            licence such questions arising under the class licence or are
            of a description specified.

 (2) In particular, a class licence may provide that the class licence
applies to a person subject to a condition precedent that requires that
person —

       (a) to notify the Authority about the person’s identity and other
            particulars about the gambling service provided by the
            person; and

       (b) to pay a charge to the Authority for receiving the
            notification.

                                    PART 5
          GAMBLING VENUE AND GAMES APPROVAL

                 Division 1 — Gambling venue approval
Application for approval of gambling venue

 63.—(1) An application for approval of any place or premises as an
approved gambling venue for a licensee or an applicant for a licence
to provide a gambling service must —

       (a) be made to the Authority in the form and manner that the
            Authority may determine; and

       (b) be accompanied by an application fee, if prescribed.

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          115

 (2) An application for approval of any place or premises as an
approved gambling venue must state —

       (a) the name, the residential or business address of each
            proprietor of the place or premises;

       (b) the name (if any) and the address of the premises;

       (c) whether the person applying for approval is a licensee or an
            applicant for a licence;

       (d) whether the written permission or authorisation required
            by the Planning Act 1998 for the development of the
            premises has been granted or deemed granted;

       (e) where any part of the gambling service to be provided at
            the place or premises involves gaming machines —

               (i) the location of the gaming machine room within the
                   place or premises; and

              (ii) the number of gaming machines intended to be
                   installed in the gaming machine room;

        (f) the hours of gambling proposed at the place or premises;

       (g) the prescribed particulars and information; and

       (h) such other additional information that the Authority
            requires to decide on the application in the particular case.

 (3) If the Authority receives an application for approval of any
place or premises as an approved gambling venue for a licensee to
provide a gambling service, the Authority may carry out, or arrange to
be carried out by authorised officers, such investigations and
inquiries in relation to the application as the Authority considers
necessary for a proper consideration of the application for approval.

 (4) An authorised officer may, for the purpose of making an
investigation or inquiry under subsection (3) relating to any place or
premises —

       (a) at any reasonable time;

       (b) after declaring his or her office and after producing his or
            her identification card on demand being made; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
116  NO. 15 OF 2022

       (c) with such assistants as may reasonably be required,

enter the place or premises and exercise any powers referred to in
subsection (5).

 (5) The powers for the purposes of an investigation or inquiry under
subsection (4) are —

       (a) to inspect the place or premises and any plant, equipment,
            conveyance or other thing at the place or premises;

       (b) to photograph or film, or make audio recordings or make
            sketches of, any part of the place or premises or anything at
            the place or premises;

       (c) to inspect and make copies of, or take extracts from
            (without fee or reward) any document kept at the place or
            premises;

       (d) to take any document or any other thing at the place or
            premises; and

       (e) to ask any individual at the place or premises —

               (i) to answer a question to the best of that individual’s
                   knowledge, information and belief; or

              (ii) to take reasonable steps to provide information or
                   produce a document.

 (6) A power under subsection (5)(a), (b), (c) or (d) is limited to a
document or thing that is used or likely to be used in the management
or operation of the place or premises as a gambling venue.

 (7) Without limiting subsection (5), an authorised officer exercising
functions under that subsection may —

       (a) be accompanied by one or more police officers; and

       (b) open any ground or wall and remove any flooring or wall
            covering, and take such measures as may be necessary to
            ascertain the character and condition of the place or
            premises and of any pipe, sewer, drain, wire or fitting.

 (8) The Authority may refuse to consider an application for or to
renew an approval of any gambling venue —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          117

       (a) that is incomplete or not made in accordance with this
            section; or

       (b) where an investigation or inquiry mentioned in
            subsection (3) in relation to the application is refused by
            the applicant.

Grant of gambling venue approval

 64.—(1) After considering any application for approval of any
place or premises as an approved gambling venue, including the
results of any investigation and inquiry under section 63(3), the
Authority may, subject to subsection (4) —

       (a) on payment of an approved gambling venue fee (if
            prescribed), grant the approval; or

       (b) refuse to grant the approval.

 (2) In determining whether an applicant should be granted an
approval of any place or premises as an approved gambling venue,
the Authority is to have regard to, and give such weight as the
Authority considers appropriate to, all of the following matters:

       (a) the desirability of the proposed gambling venue in
            maintaining the cultural interest and social wellbeing of
            the community in the area concerned;

       (b) the level of criminal activity in the vicinity of the proposed
            gambling venue;

       (c) whether it is otherwise contrary to the public interest for
            the approval to be granted to the applicant.

 (3) To avoid doubt, the Authority is not confined to consideration of
the matters specified in subsection (2) and may take into account such
other matters and evidence as may be relevant.

 (4) However, an approval of any place or premises as an approved
gambling venue for any gambling service must not be granted to any
person who is not a licensee to carry out that gambling service.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
118  NO. 15 OF 2022

Validity of gambling venue approval

 65.—(1) Every gambling venue approval granted under section 64
is to continue in force for such period as may be specified in the
approval unless it —

       (a) is earlier revoked or suspended under Part 7; or

       (b) earlier lapses because the person to whom the gambling
            venue approval was granted ceases to hold a licence.

 (2) A gambling venue approval granted cannot be transferred or
assigned to another person.

Conditions of gambling venue approval

 66.—(1) In granting a gambling venue approval to any licensee, the
Authority may impose such conditions as the Authority considers
requisite or expedient having regard to the purposes of this Act.

 (2) In particular, in granting a licensee a gambling venue approval,
the Authority may impose conditions that are necessary, expedient or
conducive to the attainment or furtherance of the licensing objectives,
such as —

       (a) conditions requiring a layout or design of the place or
            premises that ensures that no customer or member of the
            public can see the gambling taking place in the approved
            gambling venue from outside the gambling venue;

       (b) conditions requiring that any requisite surveillance system
            for monitoring and surveillance of operations in the
            approved gambling venue must conform to standards;

       (c) conditions requiring that the location and orientation of
            facilities and equipment for that requisite surveillance
            system must be as approved by the Authority; and

       (d) conditions requiring access control measures for
            underaged individuals and excluded persons.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          119

Modification of conditions of gambling venue approval

 67.—(1) Subject to this section, it is lawful for the Authority to
modify the conditions of a gambling venue approval without
compensating the licensee concerned.

 (2) Before modifying any conditions of a gambling venue approval,
the Authority must, unless subsection (5) applies, give notice to the
licensee concerned —

       (a) stating that the Authority proposes to make the
            modification in the manner as specified in the notice; and

       (b) specifying the time (being not less than 14 days from the
            date of service of notice on the licensee) within which the
            licensee may make written representations to the Authority
            with respect to the proposed modification.

 (3) Upon receiving any written representation mentioned in
subsection (2), the Authority must consider that representation and
may —

       (a) reject the representation;

       (b) amend the proposed modification in such manner as the
            Authority thinks fit having regard to the representation; or

       (c) withdraw the proposed modification.

 (4) Where —

       (a) the Authority rejects any written representation under
            subsection (3)(a);

       (b) the Authority amends any proposed modification to the
            conditions of the gambling venue approval under
            subsection (3)(b); or

       (c) no written representation is received by the Authority
            within the time specified in subsection (2)(b), or any
            written representation made under that subsection is
            subsequently withdrawn, and the licensee has not given
            immediate effect to the modification,

the Authority must issue a written direction to the licensee in question
requiring the licensee, within the time specified by the Authority, to

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
120  NO. 15 OF 2022

give effect to the modification as specified in the notice under
subsection (2) or as amended by the Authority, as the case may be.

 (5) However, where the Authority considers that it is impracticable
or undesirable, in the circumstances of the particular case for him or
her to give notice under subsection (2) before modifying the
conditions of a particular gambling venue approval because of any
act, omission or other thing that is of such a serious nature that the
integrity of the conduct of the gambling service at the approved
gambling venue is jeopardised, the Authority may, without
compensating the licensee concerned, and by giving notice to that
licensee, modify the conditions of the particular gambling venue
approval with immediate effect.

                    Division 2 — Game approval, etc.

No application to gaming machine games

 68. This Division does not apply in relation to any gaming machine
game to which Division 3 applies.

Application for game or game rules, etc., approval

 69.—(1) A licensee authorised under a licence to provide a
gambling service involving the conduct of betting operations, must
apply to the Authority for approval under section 70 of every race,
competition, sporting event or other event or process the outcome of
which bets are or are likely to be received, accepted or negotiated on
in the course of the betting operation.

 (2) A licensee authorised under a licence to provide a gambling
service involving any of the following activities:

       (a) placing, making, receiving, accepting or negotiating of any
            bets;

       (b) operating a betting exchange or betting information centre;

       (c) operating a totalisator;

       (d) organising pool betting,

must apply to the Authority for approval under section 70 of the
contents of the rules of betting for any of those activities.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          121

 (3) A licensee authorised under a licence to provide a gambling
service involving conducting gaming must apply to the Authority for
approval under section 70 of —

       (a) the game of chance conducted; and

       (b) the content of rules of that game of chance.

 (4) A licensee authorised under a licence to provide a gambling
service involving conducting any lottery must apply to the Authority
for approval under section 70 of —

       (a) the lottery; and

       (b) the content of the rules of that lottery.

 (5) An application under subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4) must —

       (a) be in the form and manner the Authority specifies;

       (b) be accompanied by an application fee, if prescribed; and

       (c) be accompanied by the prescribed information and any
            other additional information that the Authority requires to
            decide on the application.

Grant of approval of game or game rules, etc.

 70.—(1) After considering any application under section 69, the
Authority may —

       (a) on payment of a fee (if prescribed), grant the approval that
            is the subject of the application subject to any condition
            that is necessary, expedient or conducive to the attainment
            or furtherance of the licensing objectives; or

       (b) refuse to grant the approval.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1)(a), the conditions to which an
approval under this Division may be subject include —

       (a) requirements to prevent cheating or other contravention of
            the provisions of this Act; and

       (b) restrictions as to the manner, time and frequency the
            licensee offers or makes available to people the facility to

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
122  NO. 15 OF 2022

            bet, play the game of chance or participate in the lottery, as
            the case may be.

 (3) The Authority may refuse to consider an application under
section 69 that is incomplete or not made in accordance with that
section.

 (4) An approval granted under this Division cannot be transferred
or assigned to another person.

Validity of approval of game or game rules, etc.

 71. Every approval granted under section 70 to a licensee is to
continue in force until —

       (a) the period of approval lapses (where such a period is
            specified in the approval);

       (b) it is cancelled on the application of the licensee;

       (c) it is cancelled by the Authority under Division 2 of Part 7
            by way of regulatory action; or

       (d) the licensee ceases to be granted a licence.

             Division 3 — Gaming machine, etc., approval
Application of Division

 72. This Division applies only in relation to —
       (a) a gaming machine that is played by —
               (i) inserting a coin or gaming token into the machine;
              (ii) causing gaming machine credits to be registered by
                   the machine;
             (iii) making a bet on the machine; or
             (iv) causing the activation of any process relating to the
                   gaming machine game of the machine,
       (a) such as but not limited to a jackpot machine;
       (b) any game of chance installed or to be installed for a gaming
            machine in paragraph (a); and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          123

       (c) any peripheral equipment for a gaming machine in
            paragraph (a).

Application for approval of gaming machine, etc.
 73.—(1) An application for approval of —
       (a) any gaming machine mentioned in section 72(a);
       (b) any gaming machine game mentioned in section 72(b); or
       (c) any peripheral equipment for a gaming machine mentioned
            in section 72(c),

is to be made by a supplier of the gaming machine, the gaming
machine game or the peripheral equipment (as the case may be) to the
Authority.

 (2) An application for approval under subsection (1) must —
       (a) be in the form and manner the Authority specifies;
       (b) be accompanied by an application fee, if prescribed; and
       (c) be accompanied by the prescribed information and any
            other additional information that the Authority requires to
            decide on the application.

Approval of gaming machine, etc.
 74.—(1) After considering any application under section 73, the

Authority may —
       (a) on payment of a fee (if prescribed), grant approval to the
            supplier of —
               (i) any gaming machine mentioned in section 72(a);
              (ii) any gaming machine game mentioned in
                   section 72(b); and
             (iii) any peripheral equipment for a gaming machine
                   mentioned in section 72(c),
       (a) which is the subject of the application; or
       (b) refuse to grant the approval.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
124  NO. 15 OF 2022

 (2) An approval granted under this section —

       (a) for a gaming machine includes an approval of the gaming
            machine games installed in the gaming machine unless the
            Authority otherwise specifies in the approval; and

       (b) for a gaming machine and any peripheral equipment for a
            gaming machine applies to all gaming machines and
            peripheral equipment for a gaming machine, respectively,
            of that same kind.

Validity of gaming machine approval

 75. Every approval granted under section 74 continues in force for
such period as may be specified in the approval unless it is earlier
cancelled —

       (a) on the application of the supplier of the gaming machine or
            peripheral equipment for a gaming machine, as the case
            may be; or

       (b) by the Authority under section 78 or under Division 3 of
            Part 7 by way of regulatory action.

Conditions of gaming machine, etc., approval

 76.—(1) An approval granted under section 74 may be subject to
any condition that is necessary, expedient or conducive to the
attainment or furtherance of the licensing objectives.

 (2) In particular, an approval granted under section 74 may be
subject to any of the following conditions:

       (a) conditions requiring the installation and display of unique
            identification marks on a gaming machine before it is made
            available to players to use;

       (b) conditions requiring compliance with technical standards
            and configurations specified in standards;

       (c) conditions requiring the supplier to notify the Authority if
            the supplier intends to cease all or any part of their
            operations or business of supplying gaming machines;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          125

       (d) conditions requiring the supplier to notify the Authority if
            any circumstance arises that affects the supplier’s ability to
            supply, correct, repair or make alterations to gaming
            machines (and any gaming machine game installed
            therein) or peripheral equipment, as the case may be;

       (e) conditions requiring the supplier to notify the Authority if
            any fault is detected in any gaming machine (and any
            gaming machine game installed therein) or peripheral
            equipment (as the case may be) supplied or being supplied.

Restriction on transfer of gaming machine, etc., approval

 77.—(1) An approval granted under section 74, and any rights,
benefits or privileges under the approval, are not transferable or
assignable to any other person unless —

       (a) the approval contains a condition authorising the transfer
            or assignment; and

       (b) the Authority consents in writing to the transfer or
            assignment.

 (2) Any consent under subsection (1) may be given subject to
compliance with such conditions as the Authority thinks fit to
impose, which may include conditions modifying, or requiring or
otherwise providing for the making of modifications to, the
conditions of an approval granted under section 74.

 (3) A transfer or an assignment, or purported transfer or
assignment, of an approval granted under section 74, or of any
rights, benefits or privileges under the approval, is void and of no
effect —

       (a) if the approval granted under section 74 is not capable of
            transfer or assignment;

       (b) if the transfer or assignment, or purported transfer or
            assignment, is in breach of a condition of the approval; or

       (c) if there has, before the transfer or assignment or purported
            transfer or assignment, been a contravention of a condition
            subject to compliance with which the consent required by
            subsection (1) is given.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
126  NO. 15 OF 2022

Corrective action needed for gaming machine, etc.

 78.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the Authority may by a notice of
corrective action given in accordance with this section, temporarily
suspend the approval of a gaming machine (and any gaming machine
game installed therein) or any peripheral equipment for a gaming
machine if —

       (a) the gaming machine (and any gaming machine game
            installed therein) or peripheral equipment has a serious
            malfunction; or

       (b) the gaming machine (and any gaming machine game
            installed therein) or peripheral equipment no longer
            operates as intended under the standards.

 (2) A notice of corrective action in respect of any gaming machine
(and any gaming machine game installed therein) or any peripheral
equipment for a gaming machine may be made under subsection (1)
only if the Authority is of the opinion —

       (a) that without an immediate suspension, the continued use or
            supply of the gaming machine (and any gaming machine
            game installed therein) or peripheral equipment for a
            gaming machine jeopardises proper standards of integrity
            affecting gambling or the conduct of gaming;

       (b) that an immediate suspension is necessary so as to maintain
            public confidence and trust in the credibility, integrity and
            stability of licensees conducting gaming using gaming
            machines or peripheral equipment for a gaming machine of
            the same type; and

       (c) that it is impracticable in the circumstances of the
            particular case for the Authority to exercise any other
            power under any provision of this Act to effectively
            alleviate or minimise the adverse effects in paragraph (a)
            or (b).

 (3) It is not necessary for the Authority to give any person who may
be affected by a suspension under this section a chance to be heard
before a notice of corrective action in respect of any gaming machine

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          127

(and any gaming machine game installed therein) or any peripheral
equipment for a gaming machine to be made is made.

 (4) A notice of corrective action in respect of any gaming machine
(and any gaming machine game installed therein) or any peripheral
equipment for a gaming machine must be given to all or any of the
following, individually or as a class:

       (a) the supplier of the gaming machine (and any gaming
            machine game installed therein) or any peripheral
            equipment for a gaming machine (as the case may be) to
            whom approval was granted under section 74;

       (b) every licensee whom the Authority is aware provides a
            gambling service using the same kind of gaming machine
            (and any gaming machine game installed therein) or any
            peripheral equipment for a gaming machine.

 (5) A notice of corrective action in respect of any gaming machine
(and any gaming machine game installed therein) or any peripheral
equipment for a gaming machine given in accordance with this
section —

       (a) temporarily suspends the approval under this Division
            relating to all gaming machines (and any gaming machine
            game installed therein) or peripheral equipment (as the
            case may be) of that same kind, whether or not a particular
            gaming machine (and any gaming machine game installed
            therein) or a peripheral equipment is operating as designed
            or intended; and

       (b) takes effect at such time, being the earliest practicable
            time, as is determined by or under the notice of corrective
            action given under subsection (1) and continues in force
            until either the following occurs, unless earlier confirmed
            under subsection (8):

               (i) the expiry date (if any) stated in the notice is reached,
                   which must not exceed 90 days at the first instance
                   and may be renewed once only for a further period
                   not exceeding 90 days;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
128  NO. 15 OF 2022

              (ii) the Authority cancels the notice before the expiry
                   date.

 (6) A notice of corrective action in respect of any gaming machine
(and any gaming machine game installed therein) or any peripheral
equipment for a gaming machine may also contain directions from
the Authority requiring —

       (a) an affected licensee to stop providing a gambling service
            using the gaming machines (and any gaming machine
            game installed therein) or peripheral equipment (as the
            case may be) of that same kind, during the period the notice
            of corrective action has effect; and

       (b) the supplier concerned to do all or any of the following
            during the period the notice of corrective action has effect:

               (i) to take such steps as may be reasonable and
                   necessary in the circumstances to correct, repair or
                   make alterations to gaming machines (and any
                   gaming machine game installed therein) or
                   peripheral equipment (as the case may be) of that
                   same kind to prevent further jeopardy of proper
                   standards of integrity affecting gambling or the
                   conduct of gaming;

              (ii) until the corrective action in sub‑paragraph (i) is
                   taken, to stop supplying to anyone in connection with
                   any gambling service using gaming machines (and
                   any gaming machine game installed therein) or
                   peripheral equipment (as the case may be) of that
                   same kind.

 (7) Before confirming any notice of corrective action made under
subsection (1), the Authority must give written notice to the supplier
concerned and any licensee who is aggrieved by the notice —

       (a) stating that the Authority intends to confirm the notice by
            cancelling the approval under this Division in respect of
            any gaming machine (and any gaming machine game
            installed therein) or any peripheral equipment for a gaming
            machine; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          129

       (b) specifying the time (being not less than 14 days after the
            date of service of the notice on the supplier) within which
            written representations may be made to the Authority with
            respect to the proposed confirmation.

 (8) The Authority may, after considering any written representation
made under subsection (7)(b), decide —

       (a) to confirm the notice of corrective action by cancelling the
            approval in respect of the gaming machine (and any
            gaming machine game installed therein) or the peripheral
            equipment for a gaming machine in question; or

       (b) not to confirm the notice of corrective action (with or
            without modification) as the Authority considers
            appropriate.

 (9) The Authority must serve on the supplier and every licensee
which made representations under subsection (7)(b), a notice of the
Authority’s decision under subsection (8).

 (10) Every supplier and every licensee given a notice of corrective
action must comply with the notice as soon as it takes effect.

                                    PART 6

                      HARM MINIMISATION AND
               INTEGRITY PROTECTION MEASURES

       Division 1 — Protecting gambling operations integrity
                    and preventing criminal influence

Entry ban by Commissioner of Police, etc., and Authority

 79.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the Commissioner of Police
may, by an entry ban given to an individual, ban the individual for a
fixed period from —

       (a) entering or remaining in all gaming machine rooms during
            their respective restricted periods;

       (b) engaging in general remote gambling; or

       (c) engaging in both conduct in paragraphs (a) and (b).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
130  NO. 15 OF 2022

 (2) An entry ban may be made under subsection (1) against an
individual only if the Commissioner of Police is of the opinion that,
because of —

       (a) the individual’s conviction (whether in Singapore or
            elsewhere) for an offence whether or not relating to
            gambling; or

       (b) the individual’s history of criminal activity, whether alone
            or in association with others and whether or not relating to
            gambling,

the individual continuing to engage in conduct described in
subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c) presents an unacceptable risk —

       (c) to maintaining the proper standards of integrity of any
            gambling service involving gaming machine rooms or
            general remote gambling or both; or

       (d) to preventing or reducing criminal influence or
            exploitation in the management and operation of such
            regulated activities.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), the Authority may, by an entry ban
given to an individual, also ban the individual for a fixed period
from —

       (a) entering or remaining in all gaming machine rooms during
            their respective restricted periods;

       (b) engaging in general remote gambling; or

       (c) engaging in both conduct in paragraphs (a) and (b).

 (4) An entry ban may be made under subsection (3) against an
individual only if the Authority is of the opinion that —

       (a) the integrity or apparent integrity of any gambling service
            provided at an approved gambling venue, or any general
            remote gambling service provided, is likely to be seriously
            prejudiced because of —

               (i) the character or reputation of an individual in relation
                   to gambling; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          131

              (ii) the criminal activities of the individual relating to
                   gambling, whether alone or in association with
                   others; and

       (b) the entry ban is necessary to effectively alleviate or
            minimise that prejudice.

 (5) The Commissioner of Police or Authority (as the case may be)
may at any time cancel an entry ban made against an individual.

 (6) Upon making or cancelling an entry ban under this section or
Part 8, the Commissioner of Police or Authority (as the case may be)
must ensure that a written notice of the making or cancelling of the
entry ban is given to —

       (a) the individual who is or was the subject of the entry ban;
            and

       (b) the NCPG for inclusion in or deletion from (as the case
            may be) the list of excluded persons.

 (7) A notice under subsection (6) of the making of an entry ban
must set out the terms of the entry ban and, if it is reasonably
practicable to do so, include a photograph of the individual who is the
subject of the entry ban.

 (8) In this Division —

      “Commissioner of Police” includes a public officer who holds a
         post in a law enforcement agency and is designated by the
         Minister for the purposes of this Division;

      “criminal activity” means engaging in conduct that involves the
         commission of an offence under any written law, regardless
         of any conviction for the offence.

Opportunity to be heard not required

 80.—(1) It is not necessary for the Commissioner of Police or the
Authority to give any individual who may be affected by an entry ban
a chance to be heard before the entry ban to be given is given.

 (2) If the Commissioner of Police made an entry ban because of
information that is classified by the Commissioner of Police as
security sensitive information, the Commissioner of Police is not

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
132  NO. 15 OF 2022

required to provide any reasons for his or her decision other than that
the decision was made on public interest grounds under this section.

Effect of entry ban

 81.—(1) An entry ban is binding on the individual to whom it is
given and takes effect when written notice of it is given under
section 79(6).

 (2) An entry ban continues in force until the earlier of the following
occurs:

       (a) the expiry date stated in the entry ban is reached;

       (b) the person who made the entry ban cancels the entry ban;

       (c) the entry ban is cancelled on appeal under Part 8.

 (3) Subsection (2) does not prevent a further entry ban being
authorised to be given in the same terms as an entry ban that has
expired.

            Division 2 — Supporting excluded persons, etc.

Licensee must bar excluded persons, etc., from gambling

 82.—(1) Every licensee who is authorised by a licence to conduct
gaming involving gaming machines installed in a gaming machine
room must take all steps as are reasonably practicable to ensure that
an underaged individual or excluded person —

       (a) does not enter or remain, and is not allowed to enter or
            remain, in the gaming machine room during any restricted
            period of the gaming machine room; and

       (b) does not gamble and is not allowed to gamble in the
            gaming machine room during any restricted period of the
            gaming machine room,

in contravention of section 31 or 32 and, in the case of a self‑excluded
person, in contravention of his or her voluntary application under
section 165AA of the Casino Control Act 2006.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

 (2) Every licensee who is authorised by a licence to provide
facilities for general remote gambling must take all steps as are

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          133

reasonably practicable to ensure that an underaged individual or
excluded person does not engage in general remote gambling in or
from Singapore —

       (a) in contravention of section 31 or 32; and

       (b) in the case of a self‑excluded person, in contravention of
            his or her voluntary application under section 165AA of
            the Casino Control Act 2006.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

 (3) It is a defence to any regulatory action against a licensee for a
contravention of this section by permitting an excluded person to
enter or remain in the gaming machine room during any restricted
period of the gaming machine room if it is proved that —

       (a) before the individual entered the gaming machine room or
            while the individual was in the gaming machine room,
            there was produced to the licensee or to its gambling
            service agent, or an employee of the licensee or gambling
            service agent, proof of the individual’s identity; and

       (b) at that time, the individual’s name and particulars were not
            on the list of excluded persons provided or made available
            by the NCPG to the licensee under section 168(3A)(b) of
            the Casino Control Act 2006.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

Licensee empowered to remove or detain excluded persons, etc.

 83.—(1) It is lawful for the licensee or gambling service agent of a
licensee, or an employee of a licensee or a gambling service agent of a
licensee, to do any of the following using no more force than is
reasonably necessary:

       (a) to refuse entry to the licensee’s approved gambling venue
            during the restricted period of the approved gambling
            venue;

       (b) to remove or cause to be removed from the licensee’s
            approved gambling venue during the restricted period of
            the approved gambling venue,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
134  NO. 15 OF 2022

any underaged individual or excluded person whose name and
particulars are at that time on the list of excluded persons provided or
made available by the NCPG to the licensee under section 168(3A)(b)
of the Casino Control Act 2006.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

 (2) A licensee or gambling service agent of a licensee, or an
employee of a licensee or a gambling service agent of a licensee, may
require any individual whom the licensee, gambling service agent or
employee has reasonable grounds to suspect is committing or
attempting to commit an offence under section 31, 32 or 33 on an
approved gambling venue of the licensee —

       (a) to give the individual’s correct age, name and address; and

       (b) to either —

               (i) give satisfactory evidence verifying his or her age or
                   his or her not being an excluded person; or

              (ii) declare whether or not the individual is an underaged
                   individual or an excluded person or give satisfactory
                   evidence verifying his or her age or his or her not
                   being an excluded person.

 (3) A licensee or gambling service agent of a licensee, or an
employee of a licensee or a gambling service agent of a licensee, may
detain —

       (a) in a suitable place on or near the approved gambling venue;

       (b) using no more force than may be reasonably necessary; and

       (c) in accordance with subsection (4),

any individual whom the licensee, gambling service agent or
employee has reasonable grounds to suspect is committing or
attempting to commit an offence under section 28, 31, 32 or 33 on
an approved gambling venue of the licensee, until the arrival at the
place of detention of a police officer or an authorised officer, but in no
case exceeding 2 hours.

 (4) An individual detained under subsection (3) must immediately
be informed of the reasons for the detention, and the individual
actually effecting the detention must immediately notify a police

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          135

officer or an authorised officer of the detention and the reasons for
doing so.

Licensee may refuse to pay winnings to underaged individual
or excluded person

 84.—(1) If a licensee or gambling service agent has reasonable
grounds to suspect that an underaged individual or excluded person is
engaging in conduct that is an offence under section 31 or 32, or an
excluded person is gambling in contravention of his or her
self‑exclusion under section 165AA of the Casino Control Act
2006, on an approved gambling venue of the licensee or using remote
communication with the licensee or gambling service agent, the
licensee or gambling service agent, as the case may be —

       (a) is entitled to and must refuse to pay any money or other
            prize won by the underaged individual or excluded person;
            and

       (b) must surrender the money or other prize mentioned in
            paragraph (a) to the Authority on demand.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

 (2) If any money or prize is withheld under subsection (1), the
licensee or gambling service agent concerned —

       (a) must keep a record of —

               (i) the name and address (if available) of the individual
                   who is suspected of being an underaged individual or
                   excluded person;

              (ii) the amount of money or the prize won by the
                   individual; and

             (iii) the date on which the money or prize was withheld;
                   and

       (b) must advise the individual that if he or she provided
            satisfactory evidence verifying his or her age or his or her
            not being an excluded person (as the case may be) within
            7 days after the date in paragraph (a)(iii), the individual
            may claim the money or prize withheld.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
136  NO. 15 OF 2022

 (3) This section does not apply to any money or prize won in a
betting operation, game of chance or lottery if the bet, stake or wager
was made or the lottery ticket was purchased before the date of
commencement of this section.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not confer any right or impose
any duty on a class licensee.

             Division 3 — Unlawful gambling advertising

Advertising unlawful gambling

 85.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person advertises any
unlawful gambling.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000.

 (3) For the purposes of this Division, a person advertises unlawful
gambling if —

       (a) the person informs the public of any place or any online
            location where unlawful gambling takes place or will take
            place or an unlawful gambling service is or is to be
            provided;

       (b) the person invites the public —

               (i) to engage in any unlawful gambling;

              (ii) to seek information or material about opportunities
                   to engage in any unlawful gambling;

             (iii) to commit money for unlawful gambling; or

             (iv) to seek information or material about opportunities
                   to commit money for unlawful gambling;

       (c) with a view to increasing the use of facilities for unlawful
            gambling, the person brings them information or material
            about facilities for unlawful gambling or about an unlawful
            gambling service to the attention of one or more persons;

       (d) the person participates in or facilitates an activity knowing
            or believing that it is designed to —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          137

               (i) encourage one or more persons to take advantage
                   (whether directly or through an agent) of facilities for
                   unlawful gambling or of an unlawful gambling
                   service; or

              (ii) increase the use of facilities for unlawful gambling or
                   of an unlawful gambling service by bringing the
                   facilities, or information or material about the
                   facilities, to the attention of one or more persons; or

       (e) the person publishes a gambling advertisement about any
            unlawful gambling taking place or about to or an unlawful
            gambling service that is or is to be provided.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (3)(a), a person is to be treated as
informing the public of places or an online location where unlawful
gambling takes place or will take place, or an unlawful gambling
service is or is to be provided, if the person publishes a gambling
advertisement relating to unlawful gambling or an unlawful gambling
service (as the case may be) on an online location that provides the
opportunity for, or facilitates or enables, dissemination of
information to the public or a section of the public (whether or not
the particular publication results in the dissemination of information
to the public or a section of the public).

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (3)(c) or (d), a person is to be
treated as bringing facilities for gambling to the attention of one or
more persons with a view to increasing the use of the facilities if —

       (a) the person enters into arrangements (whether by way of
            sponsorship, brand‑sharing or otherwise) under which a
            name is displayed in connection with an event or product;
            and

       (b) either —

               (i) the provision of facilities for gambling is the sole or
                   main activity undertaken under that name; or

              (ii) the manner or context in which the name is displayed
                   is designed to draw attention to the fact that facilities
                   for gambling are provided under that name.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
138  NO. 15 OF 2022

 (6) For the purposes of this Division, an advertisement is deemed
advertising unlawful gambling if —

       (a) in order for the gambling to take place as advertised
            without the commission of an offence under any provision
            of this Act, it would or might be necessary to rely on a
            licence, under this Act or another Act or an exception to an
            offence under this Act; and

       (b) at the time of advertising —

               (i) arrangements for a licence, sufficient to prevent the
                   commission of an offence under any provision of this
                   Act if the gambling takes place as advertised, have
                   not been completed; and

              (ii) the arrangements for the gambling or the conduct of
                   the betting operation, game of chance or lottery, as
                   advertised, are not such as to ensure that an exception
                   to the offence under this Act will apply.

 (7) Strict liability applies to an offence under subsection (1).

Defences

 86.—(1) In any proceedings for an offence under section 34 or 85, it
is a defence for the person charged to prove, on a balance of
probabilities, that —

       (a) the person published a gambling advertisement or sent an
            inducement to gamble for or on the direction of a licensee
            or class licensee; or

       (b) the person is acting in the course of a business of
            delivering, transmitting or broadcasting information or
            material (in whatever form or by whatever means) or
            making data available and the nature of the business is such
            that persons undertaking it have no control over the nature
            or content of the information or material or data.

 (2) Where a person is charged with an offence under section 85, it is
also a defence for the person charged to prove, on a balance of
probabilities, that —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          139

       (a) the advertisement was so published as an accidental or
            incidental accompaniment to the publication of other
            matter not forming part of any promotion of gambling; and

       (b) the person does not receive any direct or indirect benefit
            (whether financial or not) for publishing that gambling
            advertisement, in addition to any direct or indirect benefit
            that the person receives for publishing that other matter.

 (3) In addition, in any proceedings for an offence under section 85,
it is a further defence for the person charged to prove, on a balance of
probabilities, that the person —

       (a) is a person whose business is to publish or arrange for the
            publication of advertisements and that the person received
            the advertisement for publication in the ordinary course of
            business;

       (b) has no financial interest in the gambling or gambling
            service featured in the advertisement;

       (c) did not know that the advertisement is about unlawful
            gambling or an unlawful gambling service; and

       (d) had taken all reasonably practicable steps as are necessary
            to ascertain that the gambling or the gambling service (as
            the case may be) was not unlawful.

Corrective measures relating to unlawful gambling
advertisements

 87.—(1) Where any person has advertised or caused advertising of
any unlawful gambling (whether or not an offence under section 85 is
committed by the person), the Authority may order that person to do
all or any of the following:

       (a) to stop the advertising with immediate effect;

       (b) to take such measures as may be reasonable and necessary
            in the circumstances to remove the advertisements that
            have already been published in Singapore;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
140  NO. 15 OF 2022

       (c) to publish a corrective advertisement in such manner and
            containing such information or material as may be
            specified by the Authority.

 (2) The person to whom an order under subsection (1) is directed
has to bear the costs and expenses arising from the taking of any
measure that is required of the person under the order.

 (3) If a person to whom an order under subsection (1) is directed
fails to comply with the order —

       (a) the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
            on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
            imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both;
            and

       (b) the Authority may take such steps as it thinks reasonable
            and necessary to implement the requirements of the order
            and recover any costs and expenses reasonably incurred by
            it in so doing from that person.

 (4) This section does not affect the liability of any person for an
offence under this Part.

                                    PART 7

                      REGULATORY SANCTIONS

                           Division 1 — Licences

Suspension or revocation, etc., of licence or class licence

 88.—(1) Subject to section 90, if the Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) a licensee or class licensee is contravening or not
            complying with, or has contravened or failed to comply
            with any of the following:

               (i) any of the conditions of its licence or, in the case of a
                   class licensee, any condition of its class licence;

              (ii) any provision of a standard applicable to the licensee
                   or class licensee;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          141

      (iii) any direction given to the licensee or class licensee
            under subsection (2)(b) or (e);

      (iv) section 78(10) or 82(1) or (2);

       (v) a confirmed interim order under section 91;

      (vi) a directive under section 92;

(b) the licensee does not or has ceased to provide the gambling
     service authorised by its licence or class licence for a
     period of more than 6 continuous months;

(c) the licensee or class licensee has provided the gambling
     service authorised by its licence or class licence in such a
     way that reflects discredit on the manner of conduct of the
     business of the gambling operators;

(d) any gambling duty and penalty tax under the Gambling
     Duties Act 2022 for which the licensee or class licensee is
     liable to pay is not paid before the end of the time
     prescribed by that Act;

(e) the licensee or class licensee, or a key officer of the
     licensee or class licensee, is convicted of any of the
     following offences committed during the term of the
     licence or class licence, as the case may be:

       (i) any offence under this Act;

      (ii) any offence under the Casino Control Act 2006, or
            the repealed Betting Act 1960, the repealed Common
            Gaming Houses Act 1961, the repealed Private
            Lotteries Act 2011 or the repealed Remote
            Gambling Act 2014;

(f) the licensee is, or 2 or more responsible executives or
     category 1 key officers of the licensee are each, no longer a
     suitable person to be involved in the conduct of the
     gambling service authorised by the licence;

(g) the licence had been obtained by the licensee by fraud or
     misrepresentation;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
142  NO. 15 OF 2022

       (h) the licensee or class licensee —

               (i) has gone or is likely to go into compulsory or
                   voluntary liquidation other than for the purpose of
                   amalgamation or reconstruction; or

              (ii) has made any assignment to, or composition with, its
                   creditors or if a corporation, is unable to pay its
                   debts; or

        (i) the public interest or national security of Singapore
            requires,

the Authority may revoke (without any compensation) the licensee’s
licence, or disapply (without any compensation) the class licence
with respect to that class licensee.

 (2) However, the Authority may, in lieu of revoking a licensee’s
licence or disapplying a class licence with respect to a class licensee
under subsection (1), do (without compensation) any one or more of
the following:

       (a) censure the licensee or class licensee in writing;

       (b) direct the licensee or class licensee to do, or to refrain from
            doing, such things as are specified in a direction to rectify
            any contravention or non‑compliance mentioned in
            subsection (1)(a) or that constitutes the ground for
            regulatory action;

       (c) suspend the licence or the application of the class licence
            (as the case may be) for not more than 6 months;

       (d) modify any condition of the licence, and section 58(2), (3)
            and (4) is disapplied;

       (e) direct the licensee or class licensee to pay, within a period
            specified in a direction, a financial penalty of such amount
            as the Authority thinks fit, but not exceeding $1 million;

        (f) direct the furnishing by the licensee of any performance
            bond, guarantee or other form of security, or an additional
            performance bond, guarantee or other form of security, for
            all or any of the following:

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          143

               (i) to secure compliance by the licensee with any
                   condition attached to the licence;

              (ii) to secure compliance by the licensee with any
                   standard applicable to the licensee;

             (iii) for the purpose of meeting any financial penalty
                   arising out of any regulatory action started or likely
                   to start against the licensee.

 (3) In taking any regulatory action under this section in relation to
the conviction of a licensee or any person for a criminal offence, the
Authority may accept the licensee’s or person’s conviction as final.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (1)(h), a corporation is unable to
pay its debts if it is a corporation which is deemed to be so unable
under section 125(2) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
Act 2018.

 (5) Where any financial penalty is imposed on a licensee for
contravening or not complying with —

       (a) any condition attached to the licence; or

       (b) any standard applicable to the licensee,

then, any performance bond, guarantee or other form of security
furnished by the licensee to secure compliance by the licensee with
any condition attached to the licence or any standard applicable to the
licensee must not be forfeited by the Authority for that contravention
or non‑compliance except to the extent to pay the financial penalty.

 (6) All financial penalties imposed under this section, and any
moneys under a performance bond, deposit or other form of security
forfeited under this section for the purpose of meeting any financial
penalty so imposed —

       (a) may be recovered as if a debt due to the Authority from the
            person from whom the sum is due and payable; and

       (b) must be collected by the Authority and paid into the
            Consolidated Fund,

and that person’s liability to pay is not to be affected by the person’s
licence ceasing, for any reason, to be in force.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
144  NO. 15 OF 2022

Regulatory action can continue despite licence expiry, etc.

 89.—(1) Subject to section 90, regulatory action started under
section 88 against a licensee or class licensee may continue, and the
Authority may exercise any powers under subsection (2), in relation
to a former licensee or former class licensee, despite either of the
following events:

       (a) the date of expiry, cancellation or surrender of the
            licensee’s licence;

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 30/10/2024]

       (b) the date the class licence stops applying.

 (2) The Authority may, if satisfied of any ground mentioned in
section 88(1), do (without compensation) any one or more of the
following:

       (a) censure the former licensee or former class licensee in
            writing;

       (b) direct the former licensee or former class licensee to do, or
            to refrain from doing, such things as are specified in a
            direction to rectify any contravention or non‑compliance
            mentioned in section 88(1)(a) by the former licensee or
            former class licensee when the licence or class licence (as
            the case may be) was in force;

       (c) direct the former licensee or former class licensee to pay,
            within a period specified in a direction, a financial penalty
            of any amount that the Authority thinks fit, but not
            exceeding the maximum specified in section 88(2)(e).

 (3) Section 88(3), (4) and (5) applies to regulatory action under this
section as it applies to any regulatory action under that section.

Proceedings for regulatory action

 90.—(1) Before exercising any powers under section 88(1) or (2) or
89(2), the Authority must give written notice to the licensee or class
licensee, or the former licensee or former class licensee, concerned —

       (a) stating that the Authority intends to take regulatory action
            against the licensee or class licensee or former licensee or
            former class licensee;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          145

       (b) specifying the type of action in section 88(1) or (2) or 89(2)
            that the Authority proposes to take, and each instance of
            contravention or non‑compliance that is the subject of the
            action; and

       (c) specifying the time (being not less than 14 days from the
            date of service of notice on the licensee or class licensee, or
            former licensee or former class licensee, as the case may
            be) within which written representations may be made to
            the Authority with respect to the proposed action.

 (2) The Authority may, after considering any written representation
under subsection (1)(c), decide to take such regulatory action in
section 88(1) or (2) or 89(2) as the Authority considers appropriate.

 (3) Where the Authority has made any decision under
subsection (2) against any licensee or class licensee, or former
licensee or former class licensee, the Authority must serve on the
licensee or class licensee, or former licensee or former class licensee
(as the case may be) concerned a notice of its decision.

 (4) Subject to Part 8, a decision to revoke a licence or disapply a
class licence under section 88(1), or to impose a regulatory action in
section 88(2) or 89(2), which is specified in the notice given under
subsection (3), takes effect from the date on which that notice is
given, or on such other date as may be specified in the notice.

 (5) Any suspension or revocation of any licence or disapplication of
a class licence under section 88 with respect to a licensee or class
licensee does not affect —

       (a) the enforcement by any person of any right or claim against
            the licensee or class licensee or the former licensee or
            former class licensee, as the case may be; or

       (b) the enforcement by the licensee or class licensee or the
            former licensee or former class licensee (as the case may
            be) of any right or claim against any person.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
146  NO. 15 OF 2022

Immediate regulatory action against licensee

 91.—(1) Despite section 88, where the Authority —

       (a) is satisfied that a licensee is contravening or not complying
            with, or has contravened or failed to comply with —

               (i) any of the conditions of its licence; or

              (ii) any provision of a standard applicable to the
                   licensee;

       (b) has reasonable grounds to believe that there is, as a result, a
            serious and imminent threat or risk to the integrity or
            apparent integrity of the gambling service provided by the
            licensee; and

       (c) is satisfied that it is impracticable in the circumstances of
            the particular case for the Authority to complete any
            regulatory action in accordance with section 90 to address
            the default mentioned in paragraph (a) because of the
            threat or risk in paragraph (b),

the Authority may make an interim order against the licensee.

 (2) An interim order made under subsection (1) —

       (a) may suspend the licence or require the licensee concerned
            (according to the circumstances of the case) to do, or to
            refrain from doing, for a specified period, the things
            specified in the interim order or the things that are of a
            description specified in the interim order, for or in respect
            of any matter necessary or desirable to rectify any
            contravention or non‑compliance mentioned in
            subsection (1)(a) or that constitutes the ground for this
            regulatory action; and

       (b) may be cancelled at any time by the Authority.

 (3) An interim order made under subsection (1) takes effect at such
time, being the earliest practicable time, as is determined by or under
that interim order and continues in force until either the following
occurs, unless earlier confirmed under subsection (5):

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          147

       (a) the expiry date (if any) stated in the interim order is
            reached, which must not exceed 90 days;

       (b) the Authority cancels the interim order before the expiry
            date.

 (4) Before confirming any interim order made under subsection (1),
the Authority must give written notice to the licensee concerned —

       (a) stating that the Authority intends to confirm the interim
            order; and

       (b) specifying the time (being not less than 14 days after the
            date of service of the notice on the licensee or class
            licensee) within which written representations may be
            made to the Authority with respect to the proposed
            confirmation.

 (5) The Authority may, after considering any written representation
made pursuant to subsection (4)(b), decide to confirm or not to
confirm the interim order (with or without modification) as the
Authority considers appropriate.

 (6) The Authority must serve on the licensee concerned a notice of
the Authority’s decision under subsection (5).

 (7) Every licensee must comply with every interim order given
under this section to the licensee as soon as it takes effect.

Directive regarding responsible executive or key officer

 92.—(1) A directive under this section cannot be given in relation
to a class licensee.

 (2) The Authority may give a directive to a licensee prohibiting the
licensee from permitting to act as a responsible executive, or a
category 1 key officer, of the licensee an individual —

       (a) whom the Authority is of the opinion is no longer a suitable
            person to be involved in providing a gambling service
            authorised by the licensee’s licence; and

       (b) who is specified in the directive.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
148  NO. 15 OF 2022

 (3) A directive under subsection (2) has to relate to an individual
specified therein and may, in particular, direct the licensee
concerned —

       (a) to suspend for a period specified in the directive, the
            individual from the exercise of his or her office,
            employment or membership (as the case may be)
            pending consideration being given to the individual’s
            removal (whether under this section or otherwise) from his
            or her office, employment or membership; or

       (b) to remove, within the period specified in the directive, the
            individual from his or her office, employment or
            membership.

 (4) However, a period of suspension under subsection (3)(a) must
not exceed 24 months.

 (5) No civil or criminal liability is incurred by the licensee or an
officer, employee or agent of a licensee, for doing or omitting to do
any act, if the act is done or omitted to be done with reasonable care
and in good faith and for the purpose of the person complying with or
giving effect to a directive under this section given to the licensee.

         Division 2 — Approved gambling venue and games

Suspension or cancellation, etc., of approved gambling venue

 93.—(1) Subject to section 95, the Authority may cancel (without
any compensation) any approval granted under section 64 to a
licensee in respect of any place or premises as an approved gambling
venue if the Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) the licensee is contravening or not complying with, or has
            contravened or failed to comply with any of the following:

               (i) any condition of the approval granted to the licensee
                   for the place or those premises as an approved
                   gambling venue;

              (ii) any provision of a standard applicable to the licensee
                   and relating to the place or those premises as an
                   approved gambling venue;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          149

       (b) the licensee does not or has ceased to provide a gambling
            service authorised by its licence at the place or those
            premises for a period of more than 6 continuous months;

       (c) the licensee is not providing a gambling service at that
            place or those premises in a safe and crime‑free manner;

       (d) the level of criminal activity in the vicinity of the place or
            those premises no longer make it suitable for that place or
            those premises to continue as an approved gambling
            venue;

       (e) the cultural interest and social wellbeing of the community
            in the vicinity of the place or those premises no longer
            make it suitable for that place or those premises to continue
            as an approved gambling venue; or

        (f) the approval had been obtained by the licensee by fraud or
            misrepresentation.

 (2) However, the Authority may, in lieu of cancelling under
subsection (1) any approval granted under section 64 to a licensee
in respect of any place or premises as an approved gambling venue,
do (without compensation) any one or more of the following:

       (a) censure the licensee in writing;

       (b) direct the licensee or class licensee to do, or to refrain from
            doing, such things as are specified in a direction to rectify
            any contravention or non‑compliance mentioned in
            subsection (1)(a) or that constitutes the ground for
            regulatory action under this section;

       (c) suspend the approval granted under section 64 to the
            licensee in respect of the particular place or premises for
            not more than 6 months;

       (d) modify any condition of the approval, and section 67 is
            disapplied.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
150  NO. 15 OF 2022

Suspension or cancellation, etc., of approved game, etc.

 94. Subject to section 95, the Authority may cancel (without any
compensation) any approval granted under section 70 to a licensee in
respect of —

       (a) any race, competition, sporting event or other event or
            process the outcome of which bets are or are likely to be
            received, accepted or negotiated on in the course of a
            betting operation;

       (b) the rules of betting for any of the following activities:

               (i) placing, making, receiving, accepting or negotiating
                   of any bets;

              (ii) operating a betting exchange or betting information
                   centre;

             (iii) operating a totalisator;

             (iv) organising pool betting;

       (c) a game of chance;

       (d) the content of rules of a game of chance;

       (e) a lottery;

        (f) the content of the rules of a lottery,

if the Authority is satisfied that —

       (g) the licensee is contravening or not complying with, or has
            contravened or failed to comply with any condition of the
            approval granted to the licensee;

       (h) the conditions of the approval granted to the licensee are
            not stringent enough to prevent cheating or other
            contravention of any provision of this Act;

        (i) compliance with the conditions of the approval cannot be
            effectively monitored or enforced; or

        (j) the approval had been obtained by the licensee by fraud or
            misrepresentation.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          151

Proceedings for regulatory action in respect of approved
gambling venue or games

 95.—(1) Before exercising any powers under section 93(1) or (2) or
94, the Authority must give written notice to the licensee
concerned —

       (a) stating that the Authority intends to take regulatory action
            under section 93(1) or (2) or 94 against the licensee;

       (b) specifying the type of action in section 93(1) or (2) or 94
            that the Authority proposes to take, and each instance of
            contravention or non‑compliance that is the subject of the
            action; and

       (c) specifying the time (being not less than 14 days from the
            date of service of notice on the licensee) within which
            written representations may be made to the Authority with
            respect to the proposed action.

 (2) The Authority may, after considering any written representation
under subsection (1)(c), decide to take such regulatory action in
section 93(1) or (2) or 94 as the Authority considers appropriate.

 (3) Where the Authority has made any decision under
subsection (2) against any licensee, the Authority must serve on
the licensee concerned a notice of its decision.

 (4) Subject to Part 8, a decision to cancel an approval under
section 93(1) or 94, or to impose a regulatory action in section 93(2),
which is specified in the notice given under subsection (3), takes
effect from the date on which that notice is given, or on such other
date as may be specified in the notice.

             Division 3 — Gaming machine, etc., approval

Suspension or cancellation, etc., of approval for gaming
machine, etc.

 96.—(1) Subject to section 97, the Authority may cancel (without
any compensation) any approval granted under Part 5 to a supplier in
respect of —

       (a) any gaming machine mentioned in section 72(a);

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
152  NO. 15 OF 2022

       (b) any gaming machine game mentioned in section 72(b); or

       (c) any peripheral equipment for a gaming machine mentioned
            in section 72(c),

if the Authority is satisfied that —

       (d) the supplier is contravening or not complying with, or has
            contravened or failed to comply with —

               (i) any condition of the approval granted to the supplier;

              (ii) any standard applicable to the supplier; or

             (iii) any notice of corrective action given to the supplier
                   under section 78;

       (e) the gaming machine (including any gaming machine game
            installed in it) or the peripheral equipment for a gaming
            machine no longer and cannot operate in conformity with
            the applicable standards; or

        (f) the approval had been obtained by the supplier by fraud or
            misrepresentation.

 (2) However, the Authority may, in lieu of cancelling under
subsection (1) any approval granted under section 74 to a supplier,
do (without compensation) any one or more of the following:

       (a) censure the supplier in writing;

       (b) direct the supplier to do, or to refrain from doing, such
            things as are specified in a direction to rectify any
            contravention or non‑compliance mentioned in
            subsection (1)(d) or that constitutes the ground for
            regulatory action under this section;

       (c) suspend the approval granted under section 74 to the
            supplier in respect of a gaming machine (including any
            gaming machine game installed in it) or the peripheral
            equipment for not more than 6 months;

       (d) modify any condition of the approval granted under
            section 74 to the supplier.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          153

Proceedings for regulatory action in respect of approved
gaming machine

 97.—(1) Before exercising any powers under section 96(1) or (2),
the Authority must give written notice to the supplier concerned —

       (a) stating that the Authority intends to take regulatory action
            under section 96(1) or (2) against the supplier;

       (b) specifying the type of action in section 96(1) or (2) that the
            Authority proposes to take, and each instance of
            contravention or non‑compliance that is the subject of
            the action; and

       (c) specifying the time (being not less than 14 days from the
            date of service of notice on the supplier) within which
            written representations may be made to the Authority with
            respect to the proposed action.

 (2) The Authority may, after considering any written representation
under subsection (1)(c), decide to take such regulatory action in
section 96(1) or (2) as the Authority considers appropriate.

 (3) Where the Authority has made any decision under
subsection (2) against any supplier, the Authority must serve on
the supplier concerned a notice of its decision.

 (4) Subject to Part 8, a decision to cancel an approval under
section 96(1), or to impose a regulatory action in section 96(2), which
is specified in the notice given under subsection (3), takes effect from
the date on which that notice is given, or on such other date as may be
specified in the notice.

                                    PART 8
                RECONSIDERATION AND APPEALS
Interpretation of this Part
 98. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “appealable decision” means any of the following decisions of
         the Authority:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
154  NO. 15 OF 2022

     (a) a decision refusing the grant of a licence under
          section 54;

     (b) a decision under section 57 imposing a condition in a
          licence;

     (c) a modification under section 58 of a condition in a
          licence;

     (d) a refusal of consent under section 59 to a transfer or
          an assignment of a licence;

     (e) a decision refusing the grant of an approval under
          section 64 for a gambling venue;

      (f) a decision under section 66 imposing a condition in
          an approval for a gambling venue;

     (g) a modification under section 67 of a condition in an
          approval for a gambling venue;

     (h) an entry ban made under section 79(1) or (3) against
          an individual;

      (i) a decision under section 88(1) to revoke a licence or
          disapply a class licence;

      (j) a decision under section 89(2) to impose a regulatory
          sanction against a former licensee or former class
          licensee;

     (k) a confirmed interim order under section 91;

      (l) a directive under section 92(2) to a licensee;

     (m) a decision under section 93(1) cancelling the
          approval for any place or premises as an approved
          gambling venue;

     (n) a decision under section 93(2) to impose a regulatory
          sanction against a licensee with respect to any place
          or premises as an approved gambling venue;

     (o) an access blocking order or a payment blocking order
          that is confirmed or varied under section 119;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          155

“appellant” means the following in relation to an appealable
   decision:

        (a) an applicant for the grant of a licence or an approval
             under Part 5, where the appealable decision is within
             paragraph (a) or (e) of the definition of “appealable
             decision”;

        (b) the individual against whom an entry ban is made,
             where the appealable decision is within paragraph (h)
             of the definition of “appealable decision”;

        (c) a licensee or class licensee or a former licensee or
             former class licensee, where the appealable decision
             is within paragraph (i) or (j) of the definition of
             “appealable decision”;

        (d) a licensee or the individual who is the subject of a
             directive under section 92, or both, where the
             appealable decision is within paragraph (l) of the
             definition of “appealable decision”;

        (e) the internet service provider against whom the access
             blocking order is made, or the financial institution or
             financial transaction provider against whom the
             payment blocking order is made, and the person
             served with a notice of the access blocking order or
             payment blocking order under section 117 or 118 (as
             the case may be) where the appealable decision is
             within paragraph (o) of the definition of “appealable
             decision”;

        (f) a licensee where the appealable decision is within any
             other paragraph of the definition of “appealable
             decision”;

“initial decision‑maker” means —

        (a) the Commissioner of Police in section 79(1), where
             the appealable decision is within paragraph (h) of the
             definition of “appealable decision” and an entry ban
             made under that section; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
156  NO. 15 OF 2022

              (b) the Authority where the appealable decision is within
                   any other paragraph of the definition of “appealable
                   decision”.

Reconsideration by initial decision‑maker of appealable
decision

 99.—(1) Where an appealable decision is made by an initial
decision‑maker, the appellant to whom the appealable decision is
given or relates may apply to the initial decision‑maker for
reconsideration of the appealable decision.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) by an appellant must be
made —

       (a) in a prescribed manner; and

       (b) before the expiry of the time specified in the appealable
            decision, being a time not later than the 14th day after the
            appealable decision was given to the appellant.

 (3) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1) for
reconsideration, the initial decision‑maker concerned has to,
without compensating the appellant concerned, either —

       (a) wholly cancel the appealable decision;

       (b) substitute the appealable decision (called the initial
            appealable decision), with another appealable decision
            that the initial decision‑maker might have made under this
            Act; or

       (c) affirm the initial appealable decision.

 (4) When a substitute appealable decision is made by the initial
decision‑maker under subsection (3)(b), the initial decision‑maker
must immediately give the appellant concerned the substitute
appealable decision in the same manner as the initial appealable
decision.

 (5) When an initial appealable decision is cancelled by the initial
decision‑maker under subsection (3)(a) or affirmed under
subsection (3)(c), or a substitute appealable decision is made under

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          157

subsection (3)(b), the initial decision‑maker must give notice (as the
case may be) of —

       (a) the cancellation or affirmation (as the case may be) to
            every person given the initial appealable decision; or

       (b) the making of a substitute appealable decision to the
            appellant who applied for reconsideration of the initial
            appealable decision.

 (6) There is to be no further reconsideration after a decision under
subsection (3).

 (7) An application to reconsider an initial decision‑maker’s initial
appealable decision does not affect the operation of that decision or
prevent that taking of action to implement that decision, and unless
otherwise allowed by the initial decision‑maker, the initial appealable
decision to be reconsidered must be complied with unless the
determination of the reconsideration indicates otherwise.

 (8) This section does not apply to an access blocking order or a
payment blocking order that is confirmed or varied under section 119.

Appeal to Minister

 100.—(1) An appellant who is aggrieved by —

       (a) an initial appealable decision affirmed on reconsideration
            under section 99 or a substitute appealable decision made
            on reconsideration under section 99; or

       (b) an access blocking order or a payment blocking order that
            is confirmed or varied under section 119,

may appeal to the Minister against the decision in accordance with
this section.

 (2) An appeal under this section must be in writing and specify the
grounds on which it is made, and be made within 28 days after the
date the decision appealed against is given to the appellant, or such
longer period as the Minister may allow in any particular case for
special reasons.

 (3) The Minister may reject an appeal of an appellant who fails to
comply with subsection (2).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
158  NO. 15 OF 2022

 (4) An appeal against an appealable decision does not affect the
operation of the decision appealed against or prevent the taking of
action to implement the decision, and unless otherwise directed by
the Minister under this subsection, the decision appealed against must
be complied with until the determination of the appeal.

Decision on appeal

 101.—(1) After considering an appeal under section 100, the
Minister may —

       (a) reject the appeal and confirm the appealable decision; or

       (b) allow the appeal and substitute or vary the appealable
            decision.

 (2) In relation to the Minister determining an appeal made under
section 100, Parts 4, 5 and 7 apply as if the reference in those Parts to
the Authority were a reference to the Minister.

 (3) Every appellant must be notified of the Minister’s decision
under subsection (2).

 (4) The decision of the Minister, or an office‑holder designated
under section 102, on an appeal is final.

Designate may hear appeal in place of Minister

 102.—(1) The Minister may designate any of the following
office‑holders in his or her Ministry to hear and determine, in the
Minister’s place, any appeal made under section 100:

       (a) the Second Minister, if any;

       (b) any Minister of State or Senior Minister of State;

       (c) any Parliamentary Secretary or Senior Parliamentary
            Secretary.

 (2) A reference to the Minister in section 100 or 101 includes a
reference to a person designated under subsection (1).

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          159

                                    PART 9

                              ENFORCEMENT

                            Division 1 — General

Purpose for which powers are exercisable

 103.—(1) A police officer or an authorised officer may exercise the
powers set out in this Part for all or any of the following purposes:

       (a) to detect and investigate —

               (i) offences under this Act; or

              (ii) crimes involving dishonesty that involve or relate to
                   gambling or conducting betting operations, gaming
                   or a lottery,

       (a) whether committed by a licensee or any other person;

       (b) to determine whether there are grounds for taking any
            regulatory action under Part 7;

       (c) to determine whether information given to the Authority, a
            police officer or compliance officer or an authorised officer
            under any provision of this Act is correct.

 (2) A compliance officer may exercise the powers set out in this
Division where specified, but subject to section 123(2) and (7) and to
the limits in the authorisation issued under that section in respect of
the compliance officer; and any reference in this Act to a compliance
officer is a reference to a compliance officer who is so authorised.

Saving for powers under other laws

 104. Nothing in this Part affects a police officer’s or an authorised
officer’s powers or duties under any provision of the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010 or other written law, and the powers in this Part
are in addition to, and not in derogation of, any power otherwise
conferred on that officer.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
160  NO. 15 OF 2022

           Division 2 — Enforcement powers for underaged
               individuals or excluded persons gambling

Power to require particulars from underaged individuals, etc.

 105.—(1) A police officer or an authorised officer who has
reasonable grounds to suspect that an individual has committed, is
committing, or is attempting to commit, a non‑arrestable offence
under this Act may —

       (a) require the individual in the approved gambling venue or
            gaming machine room to state his or her correct name,
            residential address, age and unique identification number;
            and

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

       (b) if it is suspected on reasonable grounds that the name,
            residential address, age or unique identification number
            given in response to the requirement is false, require the
            individual to produce evidence of its correctness.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

 (2) An individual must not fail to comply with a requirement under
subsection (1)(a) and must not, without reasonable cause, fail to
comply with a requirement under subsection (1)(b).

 (3) An individual who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or
to both.

 (4) If an individual contravenes subsection (2), a police officer or an
authorised officer may arrest the individual without warrant.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

 (5) Any individual arrested under this section must either —

       (a) be brought to a police station as soon as reasonably
            practicable and may, if required by a police officer of or
            above the rank of sergeant or an authorised officer, be
            released upon signing a bond with or without surety to
            appear before a Magistrate; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          161

       (b) be released without being brought to a police station upon
            verification of his or her name, residential address, age and
            unique identification number.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

 (6) If the individual refuses or is unable to sign the bond as required,
he or she must, within 24 hours of the arrest (excluding the time
necessary for the journey to a Magistrate’s Court), be brought before
a Magistrate’s Court.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

 (7) The individual who is brought before a Magistrate’s Court
under subsection (6) may —

       (a) be ordered to be detained in custody until he or she can be
            tried; or

       (b) if so required by the Magistrate, be released upon signing a
            bond, with or without surety, to appear before a
            Magistrate’s Court.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

 (8) Despite section 42(2) and (3) of the Children and Young Persons
Act 1993, an underaged individual must not be imprisoned, or
detained in a detention centre in respect of an offence under this
section, including as a consequence of a failure to pay a fine that is
imposed in respect of an offence under this section.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

 (9) In this section and section 106, “unique identification number”
means —

       (a) an individual’s identity card number, passport number or
            the number of any other similar document of identity
            issued by a government authority as evidence of the
            individual’s nationality or place of residence, and includes
            a foreign identification number; or

       (b) where an individual (who is a citizen of Singapore or a
            Singapore permanent resident) is a minor who has not yet
            been issued with an identity card number, the individual’s
            birth certificate number.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
162  NO. 15 OF 2022

Proof of age, etc., may be required for section 32 or 33 offence

 106.—(1) If a police officer or an authorised officer has reasonable
cause to suspect that an individual in an approved gambling venue or
gaming machine room during the restricted period of the approved
gambling venue or gaming machine room is an underaged individual
who has committed, is committing, or is attempting to commit, an
offence under section 32 or 33, the police officer or authorised officer
may —

       (a) require the individual in the approved gambling venue or
            gaming machine room to state his or her correct name,
            residential address, age and unique identification number;
            and

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

       (b) if it is suspected on reasonable grounds that the name,
            residential address, age or unique identification number
            given in response to the requirement is false, require the
            individual to produce evidence of its correctness.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

 (2) If a police officer or an authorised officer has reasonable cause
to suspect that an individual in an approved gambling venue or
gaming machine room during the restricted period of the approved
gambling venue or gaming machine room is an excluded person who
has committed, is committing, or is attempting to commit, an offence
under section 32 or 33, the police officer or authorised officer may —

       (a) require the individual in the approved gambling venue or
            gaming machine room —

               (i) to state his or her correct name, residential address,
                   age and unique identification number; and

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

              (ii) to declare whether or not the individual is or is not an
                   excluded person; and

       (b) if it is suspected on reasonable grounds that the name,
            residential address, age or unique identification number or
            declaration given in response to the requirement is false,

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          163

            require the individual to produce evidence of its
            correctness.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

 (3) An individual must not fail to comply with a requirement under
subsection (1)(a) or (2)(a) and must not, without reasonable cause,
fail to comply with a requirement under subsection (1)(b) or (2)(b).

 (4) An individual who contravenes subsection (3) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (5) If an individual contravenes subsection (3), a police officer or an
authorised officer may arrest the individual without warrant and deal
with him or her in accordance with section 105(5), (6) and (7) as if the
individual were arrested under section 105(4).

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 21/09/2026]

 (6) Any of the following having charge and control of an approved
gambling venue or gaming machine room:

       (a) a licensee;

       (b) a gambling service agent of a licensee;

       (c) an employee of a licensee or a gambling service agent of a
            licensee,

has and may exercise the powers of an authorised officer under
subsection (1) or (2), and any reference in the subsection to an
authorised officer includes a reference to such a licensee, gambling
service agent of a licensee, or an employee of a licensee or a gambling
service agent of a licensee.

 (7) Despite section 42(2) and (3) of the Children and Young Persons
Act 1993, an underaged individual must not be imprisoned, or
detained in a detention centre in respect of an offence under this
section, including as a consequence of a failure to pay a fine that is
imposed in respect of an offence under this section.

 (8) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect section 82.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
164  NO. 15 OF 2022

Power to seize winnings

 107.—(1) In addition to making a requirement in section 105 or
106, a police officer or an authorised officer may further require the
underaged individual or excluded person concerned —

       (a) to declare all winnings derived by the underaged individual
            or excluded person (as the case may be) from the
            commission of the offence under section 30, 31, 32 or
            33; and

       (b) to produce to the police officer or authorised officer all
            winnings in the possession of the underaged individual or
            excluded person.

 (2) A police officer or an authorised officer may, for the purpose of
ascertaining the correctness of a declaration under subsection (1)(a)
or ensuring compliance with subsection (1)(b) or both, require the
underaged individual or excluded person concerned to undergo all or
any of the following screening activities:

       (a) to open or empty the contents of, and permit the police
            officer or authorised officer to inspect, any personal
            property in the possession or apparently in the
            immediate control of the underaged individual or
            excluded person;

       (b) to turn out the underaged individual’s or excluded person’s
            pockets or remove all articles from the underaged
            individual’s or excluded person’s clothing, and allow the
            police officer or authorised officer to inspect them;

       (c) to remove any coat, jacket, gloves, shoes or hat or any
            other thing worn or carried by the underaged individual or
            excluded person, which may be conveniently removed if
            worn and that is specified by the police officer or
            authorised officer, and allow that officer to inspect the
            coat, jacket, gloves, shoes or hat or other thing;

       (d) to immediately undergo a frisk search by a police officer or
            an authorised officer.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          165

 (3) An underaged individual or excluded person who, without
reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to comply with any request of a
police officer or an authorised officer under subsection (1) or (2) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (4) However, it is not an offence under subsection (3) for any
individual to refuse to comply with any request or order made or
given by —

       (a) a police officer who is not in uniform and who fails to
            declare his or her office; or

       (b) an authorised officer who fails to declare his or her office
            and refuses to produce his or her identification card on
            demand being made by that individual.

 (5) A police officer or an authorised officer may seize any
winnings, and any personal property that reasonably appears to the
officer concerned to be winnings, that are —

       (a) produced to the officer concerned pursuant to a
            requirement under subsection (1); or

       (b) found in the course of a screening activity in
            subsection (2).

 (6) Despite section 42(2) and (3) of the Children and Young Persons
Act 1993, an underaged individual must not be imprisoned, or
detained in a detention centre in respect of an offence under this
section, including as a consequence of a failure to pay a fine that is
imposed in respect of an offence under this section.

 (7) Sections 370, 371 and 372 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010
relating to the handling of property seized by a police officer apply,
with the necessary modifications, to any thing coming into the
possession of a police officer or an authorised officer under this
section.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
166  NO. 15 OF 2022

(8) In this section —

    “frisk search” means a search of an individual conducted by
        quickly running the hands over the individual’s outer
        clothing;

    “personal property”, in relation to an individual, means things
        carried by the individual or things apparently in the
        immediate control of the individual, but does not include
        clothing being worn by the individual;

    “winnings” has the meaning given by section 41(3).

                Division 3 — Other enforcement powers

Powers of entry, etc., at premises

 108.—(1) A police officer or an authorised officer may without
warrant, enter, at all reasonable times, and remain at any premises —

       (a) that is an approved gambling venue;

       (b) where a licensee or former licensee, a class licensee for any
            gambling service provided, or a gambling service agent of
            a licensee, has an office or keeps records that relate to any
            gambling service provided by the licensee, class licensee
            or former licensee; or

       (c) at which a police officer or an authorised officer has
            reasonable grounds to believe that gambling has been, or is
            being, conducted.

 (2) Upon entering any premises under subsection (1), a police
officer or an authorised officer may do all or any of the following:

       (a) examine any thing or observe any activity conducted in or
            on the premises;

       (b) inspect the premises and any document or article (whether
            or not a gambling article) or other thing in or on the
            premises;

       (c) make a still or moving image or recording of the premises
            and any document or article (whether or not a gambling
            article) or other thing in or on the premises;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          167

       (d) inspect any document or article found on the premises and
            take extracts from, or make copies of, any such document
            or article;

       (e) seize any document or article (whether or not a gambling
            article) found on the premises if, in the opinion of the
            police officer or authorised officer —

               (i) the inspection or copying of or extraction from the
                   document or article cannot reasonably be performed
                   without taking possession;

              (ii) the document or article may be interfered with or
                   destroyed unless possession is taken; or

             (iii) the document or article may be required as evidence
                   in any criminal proceedings or regulatory action
                   instituted or commenced under this Act;

        (f) operate electronic equipment in or on the premises;

       (g) seize any unlawful gambling instrument found on the
            premises;

       (h) take into or onto the premises such equipment and
            materials as the police officer or authorised officer
            requires for the purpose of exercising powers in this
            section in relation to those premises.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), if any information in a
document or an article required by a police officer or an authorised
officer is kept in electronic form —

       (a) the power of a police officer or an authorised officer to
            inspect the document or article includes the power to —

               (i) access any computer or other equipment (including a
                   mobile telephone) in which the information is stored;
                   and

              (ii) require any person having charge of, or otherwise
                   concerned with the operation of, the computer or
                   equipment to provide assistance in gaining such
                   access; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
168  NO. 15 OF 2022

       (b) the power of a police officer or an authorised officer to
            seize such document includes the power —

               (i) to make copies of the document in legible or
                   electronic form; and

              (ii) to transfer the information from the document to a
                   disk, tape or other storage device.

 (4) If a police officer or an authorised officer under
subsection (3)(b) is unable to make copies of the document or
transfer the information from the document, the police officer or
authorised officer (whether or not the same inspecting officer)
may —

       (a) seize the computer or other equipment (including a mobile
            telephone) in which the document or information is stored,
            as evidence in proceedings for an offence under any
            provision of this Act; and

       (b) require any person having charge of, or otherwise
            concerned with the operation of, the computer or
            equipment to disclose any password or access code for
            gaining access to the document or information held in the
            computer or equipment.

 (5) The power under subsection (2)(f) to operate electronic
equipment in or on any premises includes the power —

       (a) to use a disk, tape or other storage device that is in or on the
            premises and can be used with the equipment or in
            association with the equipment;

       (b) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to put
            the relevant data in documentary form and remove the
            documents so produced from the premises; and

       (c) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to
            transfer the relevant data to a disk, tape or other storage
            device that —

               (i) is brought to the premises for the exercise of the
                   power; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          169

              (ii) is in or on the premises and the use of which for that
                   purpose has been agreed in writing by the occupier of
                   the premises,

       (c) and to remove the disk, tape or other storage device from
            those premises.

 (6) A police officer or an authorised officer may break open doors,
windows or partitions and do such other acts as may be necessary to
enter and remain at any premises, except that an authorised officer
may exercise a power under this subsection only —

       (a) after declaring his or her office and after producing his or
            her identification card on demand being made; and

       (b) in circumstances where the authorised officer —

               (i) suspects on reasonable grounds that an offence under
                   Part 2 has been or is being committed in relation to
                   those premises; and

              (ii) is unable to enter, or is refused entry to, the premises.

 (7) Sections 370, 371 and 372 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010
relating to the handling of property seized by a police officer apply,
with the necessary modifications, to any thing coming into the
possession of a police officer or an authorised officer under this
section.

Powers in relation to conveyances

 109.—(1) A police officer or an authorised officer may without
warrant, do all or any of the following in relation to any conveyance
on which a police officer or an authorised officer has reasonable
grounds to believe that gambling has been, or is being, conducted, or
which is used to convey any gambling article:

       (a) stop and detain the conveyance for as long as is reasonably
            necessary for the exercise of any other power under this
            section;

       (b) inspect the conveyance and any equipment in or on the
            conveyance;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
170  NO. 15 OF 2022

       (c) make a still or moving image or recording of the
            conveyance and any document or article (whether or not
            a gambling article) or other thing in or on the conveyance;

       (d) inspect any document or article found on the conveyance
            and take extracts from, or make copies of, any such
            document or article;

       (e) seize any document or article (whether or not a gambling
            article) found on the conveyance if, in the opinion of the
            police officer or authorised officer —

               (i) the inspection or copying of or extraction from the
                   document or article cannot reasonably be performed
                   without taking possession;

              (ii) the document or article may be interfered with or
                   destroyed unless possession is taken; or

             (iii) the document or article may be required as evidence
                   in any criminal proceedings or regulatory action
                   instituted or commenced under this Act;

        (f) operate any electronic equipment in or on the conveyance;

       (g) seize any unlawful gambling instrument found in or on the
            conveyance;

       (h) take into or onto the premises such equipment and
            materials as the police officer or authorised officer
            requires for the purpose of exercising powers in this
            section in relation to the conveyance.

 (2) Section 108(3), (4) and (5) applies to the power of a police
officer or an authorised officer under this section with the necessary
modifications.

 (3) Sections 370, 371 and 372 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010
relating to the handling of property seized by a police officer apply,
with the necessary modifications, to any thing coming into the
possession of a police officer or an authorised officer under this
section.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          171

Power to obtain information

 110.—(1) The powers in this section may be exercised only in
relation to any of the following:

       (a) any licensee or class licensee;

       (b) any gambling service agent of a licensee;

       (c) any employee or former employee of a licensee, class
            licensee or gambling service agent of a licensee;

       (d) an individual who is or was a responsible executive of a
            person mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b);

       (e) an individual who is or was a category 1 key officer of a
            person mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b);

        (f) any individual found on any premises entered into under
            section 108;

       (g) any driver, pilot or other person in charge of the
            conveyance, or a person in possession of the
            conveyance, stopped or detained under section 109.

 (2) A police officer, an authorised officer or a compliance officer
may by written notice require any person mentioned in subsection (1)
to provide, within a reasonable period specified in the notice, and in
such form and manner as may be specified in the notice, all
documents and all information or material which —

       (a) relate to any matter which the Authority, police officer,
            authorised officer or compliance officer considers
            necessary for any of the purposes of section 103(1); and

       (b) are —

               (i) within the knowledge of that person; or

              (ii) in the custody or under the control of the person.

 (3) The power to require a person mentioned in subsection (1) to
provide any document or any information or material under
subsection (2) includes the power —

       (a) to require that person to produce or grant access to the
            document or the information or material;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
172  NO. 15 OF 2022

       (b) to require that person to provide an explanation of the
            document or the information or material;

       (c) if the document or the information or material is not
            produced, to require the person to state, to the best of the
            knowledge and belief of that person where it is; and

       (d) if the information or material is recorded otherwise than in
            legible form, to require the information or material to be
            made available to a police officer, an authorised officer or a
            compliance officer concerned in legible form.

 (4) A police officer, an authorised officer or a compliance officer
(as the case may be) is entitled without payment to keep for the
purposes of section 103(1) any document or information or material,
or any copy or extract thereof, provided to him or her under
subsection (2).

Power of examination

 111.—(1) A police officer or an authorised officer may, for the
purpose in section 103(1), do all or any of the following:

       (a) require any individual whom the police officer or
            authorised officer reasonably believes to have committed
            an offence under any provision of this Act to provide
            evidence of that individual’s identity;

       (b) require, by written notice, any person, whom the police
            officer or authorised officer reasonably believes has —

               (i) any information or material; or

              (ii) any document in the person’s custody or control,

       (b) that is relevant to the investigation, to provide that
            information or material or the document, within such
            time and in such manner as may be specified in the written
            notice;

       (c) require, by written notice, any person within the limits of
            Singapore, who appears to be acquainted with the facts or
            circumstances of the matter, to attend before the police
            officer or authorised officer;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          173

       (d) examine orally any individual who appears to be
            acquainted with the facts or circumstances of the matter —

               (i) whether before or after that individual or anyone else
                   is charged with an offence in connection with the
                   matter; or

              (ii) whether or not that person is to be called as a witness
                   in any inquiry, trial or other proceeding in connection
                   with the matter.

 (2) A statement made by a person examined under subsection (1)(d)
must —

       (a) be reduced to writing;

       (b) be read over to the individual;

       (c) if the individual does not understand English, be
            interpreted in a language that the individual understands;
            and

       (d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the individual.

Power of arrest

 112.—(1) An authorised officer may arrest without warrant any
individual whom the authorised officer reasonably believes has
committed an arrestable offence under this Act and —

       (a) is found in any place or premises —

               (i) that is an approved gambling venue;

              (ii) where a licensee, a class licensee or a gambling
                   service agent of a licensee, has an office or keeps
                   records that relate to any gambling service provided
                   by the licensee or class licensee; or

             (iii) that is occupied by a licensee, a class licensee or a
                   gambling service agent of a licensee, and adjacent to
                   any place or premises mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i)
                   or (ii); or

       (b) is found escaping from any place or premises mentioned in
            paragraph (a)(i), (ii) and (iii) before, on or after the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
174  NO. 15 OF 2022

            authorised officer enters the place or premises as
            authorised to do so under this Act.

 (2) An authorised officer may without warrant also seize all
gambling articles found on the individual arrested under
subsection (1).

 (3) Except as provided in subsection (1), an authorised officer may
exercise all or any of the powers in relation to investigations into an
arrestable offence conferred by the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 on
a police officer —

       (a) in any case relating to the commission of an arrestable
            offence under any provision of this Act; or

       (b) in any case where an arrestable offence involving
            gambling is disclosed under any other written law in the
            course of an investigation under this Act.

Bail and bond

 112A.—(1) A person who has been arrested by an authorised
officer under section 112(1) may be released on bail or on personal
bond granted by any authorised officer.

 (2) Division 5 (Bails and bonds) of Part 6 of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010 applies to the release of a person on bail or on personal
bond under this section or section 92 or 93 of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010 (as the case may be) with the following modifications:

       (a) any reference to “officer”, “police officer” or “police
            officer of or above the rank of sergeant” is to be read to
            include an authorised officer;

       (b) the reference to the Commissioner of Police in
            section 92(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 is to
            be read to include the Chief Executive of the Authority.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2024 wef 17/06/2024]

Obstructing police officer or authorised officer

 113.—(1) If a police officer or an authorised officer is authorised
under this Act to enter any premises, a person who —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          175

       (a) wilfully prevents the police officer or authorised officer
            from entering or re‑entering those premises or any part of
            those premises;

       (b) wilfully obstructs or delays the police officer or authorised
            officer from entering or re‑entering those premises or any
            part of those premises; or

       (c) gives an alarm or causes an alarm to be given for the
            purpose of —

               (i) notifying anyone else of the presence of the police
                   officer or authorised officer; or

              (ii) obstructing or delaying the police officer or
                   authorised officer from entering or re‑entering
                   those premises or any part of those premises,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (2) A person who intentionally refuses to give access to, or
intentionally obstructs, hinders or delays a police officer or an
authorised officer in the discharge of his or her duties under any
provision of this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

Other offences

 114.—(1) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do
anything required of the person by a police officer or an authorised
officer under section 108 or 109, or by a notice under section 110(2)
or 111, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (2) A person —

       (a) who intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any
            document or any information or material which the
            person has been required by a police officer, an

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
176  NO. 15 OF 2022

            authorised officer or a compliance officer under
            section 110(2) or 111 to provide; or

       (b) who, in providing any document or any information or
            material required by a police officer, an authorised officer
            or a compliance officer under section 110(2) or 111 makes
            any statement which the person knows or ought reasonably
            to know that, or is reckless as to whether, it is false or
            misleading in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (3) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is a
defence for the accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that
the person —

       (a) does not possess the document or information required;
            and

       (b) has taken all reasonable steps available to the person to
            obtain the document or information required and has been
            unable to obtain it.

 (4) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of subsection (1), it is a
reasonable excuse for a person to refuse or fail to provide any
information, produce any document or answer any question if doing
so might tend to incriminate that person.

 (5) A person commits an offence if the person, being an applicant
for the grant of a licence or an approval under Part 5 —

       (a) provides, or causes or permits to be provided, any
            document or information in connection with the
            application, which is false or misleading in a material
            particular; and

       (b) knows or ought reasonably to know that, or is reckless as to
            whether, the document or information is false or
            misleading in a material particular.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          177

 (6) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (5) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Composition of offences

 115.—(1) The Authority or an authorised officer may compound
any offence under this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable
offence —

       (a) by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
            committed the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of
            the following:

               (i) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
                   prescribed for the offence;

              (ii) $5,000; and

       (b) by requiring the person reasonably suspected of having
            committed the offence to do, or to refrain from doing, such
            things as are specified in an offer of composition (called
            conditions of composition) by the Chief Executive of the
            Authority or any authorised officer mentioned in
            subsection (1) with the concurrence (general or specific)
            of the Public Prosecutor.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money and on full compliance with
the conditions of composition, no further proceedings are to be taken
against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

        Division 4 — Special provisions for remote gambling

Definitions for Division

 116. In this Division, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “access blocking order” means an order under section 117(1) to
         disable access to an online location;

      “internet service provider” means a provider of an internet
         access service;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
178  NO. 15 OF 2022

      “payment blocking order” means an order under
         section 118(1)(b) or (3) to block specified transactions;

      “unlawful remote gambling activity” means any conduct that is
         an offence —

              (a) under section 18 by the provision of a remote
                   gambling service with a Singapore‑customer link or
                   a Singapore‑based remote gambling service; or

              (b) under section 20(1) of unlawful gambling using
                   remote communication.

Blocking of access to online remote gambling services, etc.

 117.—(1) Where the Authority, after receiving a complaint or on
the Authority’s initiative, is satisfied that the services of an internet
service provider have been or are being used to access or facilitate
access to —

       (a) an online location through which a remote gambling
            service is provided in contravention of section 18;

       (b) an online location that is or may be used by individuals
            present in Singapore to gamble in contravention of
            section 20(1);

       (c) an online location that contains an invitation to young
            persons to gamble in contravention of section 34; or

       (d) an online location that is otherwise a remote gambling
            service advertisement published in Singapore in
            contravention of section 85,

the Authority may, after having regard to the matters referred to in
subsection (2), direct the IMDA to order the internet service provider
to take reasonable steps to disable access to that online location
(called an access blocking order); and the IMDA must then give that
internet service provider an access blocking order.

 (2) Before directing the IMDA to make an access blocking order
with respect to an online location, the Authority must have regard to,
and give such weight as the Authority considers appropriate to, all of
the following matters:

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          179

       (a) whether, having regard to the content of the online location
            and the way the online location is advertised or promoted,
            the primary purpose of the online location —

               (i) is for use by others to commit an offence under
                   section 18, 20(1) or 34; or

              (ii) is to publish a remote gambling service
                   advertisement in contravention of section 85,

       (a) and the online location is available for access by end‑users
            in Singapore;

       (b) whether the online location makes available or contains
            directories or indexes of other online locations which may
            be used to, or categories of the means to, commit an
            offence under section 18, 20(1) or 34;

       (c) whether the owner or operator of the online location
            demonstrates a disregard for the prohibitions and
            restrictions in this Act against remote gambling generally;

       (d) whether access to the online location has been disabled by
            orders from any court of another country or territory, or any
            foreign competent authority, on the ground of or related to
            remote gambling;

       (e) whether the online location contains guides or instructions
            to circumvent any measure, or any order of any such court
            or competent authority, to disable access to the online
            location on the ground of or related to remote gambling;

        (f) the volume of traffic at the online location by end‑users in
            Singapore;

       (g) the burden that the making of the access blocking order
            will place on the internet service provider;

       (h) the technical feasibility of complying with the access
            blocking order.

 (3) To avoid doubt, the Authority is not confined to consideration of
matters specified in subsection (2) and may take into account such
other matters and evidence as may be relevant.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
180  NO. 15 OF 2022

 (4) In addition, before directing the IMDA to make an access
blocking order with respect to an online location mentioned in
subsection (1)(c) or (d), the Authority —

       (a) must send a notice to the owner or operator of the online
            location (called the relevant online location proprietor),
            stating the intention to direct the IMDA to issue an access
            blocking order if the relevant online location proprietor
            does not, within the prescribed period —

               (i) stop the invitation on that online location to young
                   persons to gamble in contravention of section 34; or

              (ii) stop the publishing of a remote gambling service
                   advertisement in contravention of section 85 on that
                   online location; and

       (b) must be satisfied that, upon or after the end of that
            prescribed period or after reasonable efforts are made to
            send the notice mentioned in paragraph (a) to the relevant
            online location proprietor, the relevant online location
            proprietor does not stop the activity referred to in
            paragraph (a)(i) or (ii), as the case may be.

 (5) Despite subsection (4), the Authority may direct the IMDA to
make an access blocking order with respect to an online location
mentioned in subsection (1)(c) or (d) without notice under
subsection (4) if the relevant online location proprietor is a person
to whom an order under section 87(1) is given and who has failed to
comply with that order.

 (6) An internet service provider which does not comply with any
access blocking order issued against it by the IMDA under this
section shall be guilty of an offence for each online location specified
in the access blocking order and not blocked in accordance with the
terms of that order, and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $20,000 for every day during any part of which that access
blocking order is not fully complied with, up to a total of $500,000 for
each offence.

 (7) It is not necessary to publish any access blocking order in the
Gazette.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          181

Blocking of payment transactions

 118.—(1) Where the Authority, after receiving a complaint or on
the Authority’s initiative, is satisfied that a person is participating or
has participated in any unlawful remote gambling activity, the
Authority may, after having regard to the matters referred to in
subsection (4) —

       (a) direct the MAS to give a financial institution a payment
            blocking order; or

       (b) give a financial transaction provider a payment blocking
            order.

 (2) A payment blocking order given to a financial institution or a
financial transaction provider in relation to a person’s participation in
any unlawful remote gambling activity may order the financial
institution or the financial transaction provider concerned —

       (a) not to accept credit, or proceeds of credit, extended to that
            person;

       (b) not to accept any cheque, bank draft or similar instrument
            which is drawn by or in favour of that person;

       (c) not to make or accept any electronic funds transfer, or any
            funds transmission, to or from that person; or

       (d) to block payments, or otherwise prevent or prohibit
            transactions, generally where these use merchant
            category codes (or equivalents) customarily associated
            with gambling transactions.

 (3) Where the Authority directs the MAS to give a payment
blocking order under subsection (1)(a), the MAS must then give the
financial institution concerned a payment blocking order.

 (4) Before giving a direction or a payment blocking order under
subsection (1), the Authority must have regard to, and give such
weight as the Authority considers appropriate to, all of the following
matters:

       (a) whether, having regard to the content of the online location
            on which any bank account information is specified, that
            the bank account is used or is to be used to commit an

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
182  NO. 15 OF 2022

            offence under section 18, 20(1) or 34 or to publish a
            gambling advertisement about remote gambling in
            Singapore in contravention of section 85;

       (b) whether the merchant category codes (or equivalents)
            customarily associated with gambling transactions are
            used by credit card systems or other payment systems to
            determine if a transaction is or is likely to be related to any
            unlawful remote gambling activity;

       (c) whether the owner or operator of the online location on
            which any bank account information is specified
            demonstrates a disregard for the prohibitions and
            restrictions in this Act against remote gambling generally;

       (d) whether access to the online location on which any bank
            account information is specified has been disabled by
            orders from any court or competent authority of another
            country or territory on the ground of or related to remote
            gambling;

       (e) whether the online location on which any bank account
            information is specified contains guides or instructions to
            circumvent any measure, or any order of any such court or
            competent authority, to disable access to the online
            location on the ground of or related to remote gambling;

        (f) the volume of traffic at the online location by end‑users in
            Singapore;

       (g) the burden that the making of the payment blocking order
            will place on the financial institution or class of financial
            institutions, or the financial transaction provider or class of
            financial transaction providers;

       (h) the technical feasibility of complying with the payment
            blocking order.

 (5) To avoid doubt, the Authority is not confined to consideration of
matters specified in subsection (4) and may take into account such
other matters and evidence as may be relevant.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          183

 (6) A financial institution or financial transaction provider to which
a payment blocking order is given under this section and which does
not comply with the order shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction —

       (a) for a payment blocking order that specifies an account of
            any person who is participating or has participated in any
            unlawful remote gambling activity, to a fine not exceeding
            $20,000 for each transaction specified in the payment
            blocking order but not blocked, up to a total of $500,000
            per account to or from which the transaction is made or to
            be made; or

       (b) for a payment blocking order that specifies any transaction,
            to a fine not exceeding $20,000 for each transaction
            specified in the blocking order but not blocked, up to a total
            of $500,000.

 (7) It is not necessary to publish any payment blocking order in the
Gazette.

Review of blocking orders

 119.—(1) After a direction is given under section 117(1) to the
IMDA or under section 118(1)(a) to the MAS, or a payment blocking
order under section 118(1)(b) is given, the Authority must, unless not
practicable, serve —

       (a) on an owner or operator of an online location, a notice of
            every access blocking order given by the IMDA to an
            internet service provider with respect to that online
            location; and

       (b) on a person to or from whom the transactions specified in
            section 118(2)(a), (b) or (c) are to be blocked under a
            payment blocking order, a notice of every payment
            blocking order given by the MAS to any financial
            institution with respect to that person, or a notice of
            every payment blocking order given by the Authority to
            any financial transaction provider with respect to that
            person, as the case may be.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
184  NO. 15 OF 2022

 (2) Any person referred to in subsection (1)(a) or (b), and any
internet service provider, financial institution or financial transaction
provider given an access blocking order or a payment blocking order
(called an affected person), may —

       (a) apply to the Authority to review the access blocking order
            or payment blocking order concerned; and

       (b) make written representations to the Authority, stating why
            access to the online location should be restored or why
            transactions for payment should be processed, as the case
            may be.

 (3) An application to review an access blocking order or a payment
blocking order must be made —

       (a) within the period specified in the order or notice of the
            order, if served, being not less than 14 days; or

       (b) within 28 days after the effective date of the order, in any
            other case.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), the Authority may, after considering
the written representations made under subsection (2) —

       (a) confirm or vary the access blocking order or payment
            blocking order (as the case may be), with effect from such
            date as may be specified; or

       (b) revoke the access blocking order or payment blocking
            order (as the case may be), with effect from such date as
            may be specified.

 (5) Before making any decision under subsection (4), the Authority
must have regard to, and give such weight as the Authority considers
appropriate to, the matters in section 117(2) or 118(4) (as the case
may be), and all or any of the following matters:

       (a) public interest considerations balanced against the
            technical or commercial feasibility of disabling access or
            blocking payment;

       (b) any other matter which the Authority considers relevant.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          185

 (6) The Authority may, on the application at any time of an affected
person or on the Authority’s initiative, vary or revoke an access
blocking order or a payment blocking order (as the case may be) if the
Authority is satisfied —

       (a) upon further evidence, that the order ought not to have
            been made;

       (b) that there has been a material change in circumstances;

       (c) for an access blocking order, that the online location has
            stopped being —

               (i) an online location through which a remote gambling
                   service is provided in contravention of section 18;

              (ii) an online location that is or may be used by
                   individuals present in Singapore to gamble in
                   contravention of section 20(1);

             (iii) an online location that contains an invitation to
                   young persons to gamble in contravention of
                   section 34; or

             (iv) an online location that is otherwise a gambling
                   advertisement about remote gambling published in
                   Singapore in contravention of section 85;

       (d) for a payment blocking order, that —

               (i) the bank account is closed or is no longer used by a
                   person in connection with any participation in
                   unlawful remote gambling activity; or

              (ii) the merchant category code (or equivalent)
                   customarily associated with a gambling transaction,
                   is no longer customarily associated with gambling;
                   or

       (e) that it is otherwise appropriate in the circumstances to do
            so.

 (7) Upon the Authority’s decision under subsection (4) or (6) with
respect to an access blocking order, the IMDA is to accordingly
inform the internet service provider concerned, and the Authority is

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
186  NO. 15 OF 2022

to accordingly inform the person served with a notice of the access
blocking order under subsection (1), of the Authority’s decision.

 (8) Upon the Authority’s decision under subsection (4) or (6) with
respect to a payment blocking order, the MAS is to accordingly
inform the financial institution or class of financial institutions to
which that order relates, and the Authority is to accordingly inform
the person served with a notice of the payment blocking order under
subsection (1), of the Authority’s decision.

 (9) Upon the Authority’s decision under subsection (4) or (6) with
respect to a payment blocking order, the Authority is to accordingly
inform the financial transaction provider or class of financial
transaction providers to which that order relates, and the person
served with a notice of the payment blocking order under
subsection (1), of the Authority’s decision.

 (10) An application for review of the Authority’s decision does not
affect the operation of the decision or prevent the taking of action to
implement the decision, and unless otherwise provided by the
authorised officer, that decision must be complied with until the
determination of the review.

Immunity for complying with blocking orders

 120.—(1) No criminal or civil liability is to be incurred —

       (a) by an internet service provider or an officer or agent of
            such provider; or

       (b) by a financial institution, a financial transaction provider,
            or an officer or agent of a financial institution or financial
            transaction provider,

for anything done or omitted to be done with reasonable care and in
good faith in complying with any access blocking order or payment
blocking order, or purported access blocking order or payment
blocking order, as the case may be.

 (2) In this section, an “officer” of an internet service provider, a
financial institution or a financial transaction provider includes an
employee of the internet service provider, financial institution or
financial transaction provider.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          187

                                   PART 10

                            ADMINISTRATION

Administration of Act by Authority

 121.—(1) It is the function of the Authority to administer this Act.

 (2) Despite anything in the Interpretation Act 1965, the Gambling
Regulatory Authority of Singapore Act 2022 or any other law, the
powers conferred or duties imposed upon the Authority by any
provision of this Act are non‑delegable to the following:

       (a) a wholly‑owned subsidiary company of the Authority;

       (b) a person engaged as a contractor by the Authority.

Authorised officers

 122.—(1) The Authority may, in relation to any provision of this
Act, appoint —

       (a) any of its employees;

       (b) any individual performing duties in the Authority under a
            secondment arrangement making available temporarily to
            the Authority the services of the individual;

       (c) any public officer; or

       (d) any employee of another public authority,

to be an authorised officer for the purposes of that provision, either
generally or in a particular case.

 (2) The Authority may delegate the exercise of all or any of the
powers conferred or duties imposed upon the Authority by any
provision of this Act, to any authorised officer, subject to any
conditions or limitations that the Authority may specify; and any
reference in that provision of this Act or its subsidiary legislation to
the Authority includes a reference to such an authorised officer.

 (3) However, nothing in subsection (2) authorises delegating —

       (a) the power of delegation conferred by that subsection; or

       (b) any power of the Authority to make subsidiary legislation
            under this Act.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
188  NO. 15 OF 2022

Compliance officers

 123.—(1) The Authority may, with the general or specific approval
of the Minister, appoint an individual who —

       (a) is not an employee of any public authority and not a public
            officer;

       (b) is at least 18 years of age; and

       (c) has suitable qualifications or experience,

to be a compliance officer.

 (2) The function and duty of a compliance officer is to assist the
Authority, a police officer or an authorised officer in the exercise of
enforcement powers in section 110 —

       (a) when the compliance officer is in any place or premises in
            Singapore —

               (i) that is an approved gambling venue; or

              (ii) where a licensee or former licensee, a class licensee,
                   or a gambling service agent of a licensee, has an
                   office or keeps records that relate to any gambling
                   service provided by the licensee, class licensee or
                   former licensee; and

       (b) in relation to any of the following only:

               (i) any licensee or class licensee;

              (ii) any gambling service agent of a licensee;

             (iii) any employee of a licensee, class licensee or
                   gambling service agent of a licensee;

             (iv) an individual who is or was a responsible executive
                   of a person mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i) or (ii);

              (v) an individual who is or was a category 1 key officer
                   of a person mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i) or (ii).

 (3) The Authority must issue to each compliance officer an
identification card, which must be carried at all times by the
compliance officer when exercising powers under this Act.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          189

 (4) A compliance officer whose appointment as such ceases must
return any identification card issued to him or her under
subsection (3) to the Authority.

 (5) The Authority must also issue to each compliance officer, a
written authorisation specifying —

       (a) such of the powers specified in section 110 as exercisable
            by a compliance officer, as what the compliance officer
            may exercise, and no other powers; and

       (b) the particular place or premises or description of places or
            premises in Singapore where the compliance officer may
            exercise those powers or any of them, provided that the
            place or premises is —

               (i) an approved gambling venue; or

              (ii) where a licensee or former licensee, a class licensee,
                   or a gambling service agent of a licensee, has an
                   office or keeps records that relate to any gambling
                   service provided by the licensee, class licensee or
                   former licensee.

 (6) The authorisation of the Authority under subsection (5) issued
to a compliance officer may also do either or both of the following:

       (a) limit when the compliance officer may exercise those
            powers or any of them;

       (b) limit the circumstances in which the compliance officer
            may exercise those powers or any of them.

 (7) To avoid doubt, the Authority cannot authorise under this
section a compliance officer —

       (a) to detain or arrest any individual;

       (b) to search any place or individual; or

       (c) to seize any property.

 (8) The powers that a compliance officer may be authorised under
this section to exercise may be exercised only —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
190  NO. 15 OF 2022

       (a) on production of the identification card issued under
            subsection (3);

       (b) to the extent authorised by the Authority under
            subsection (5); and

       (c) as directed (generally or specially) by a police officer or an
            authorised officer.

 (9) A compliance officer who is authorised under subsection (5) to
exercise any power expressly specified in that authorisation as
exercisable by a compliance officer is deemed to be a public servant
for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871 when exercising that power.

 (10) To avoid doubt, a compliance officer does not cease to be
acting on the direction of the Authority or an authorised officer by
reason only that the Authority or an authorised officer is not present at
any time.

 (11) An individual who is appointed as a compliance officer under
subsection (1) does not, by virtue only of the appointment, become an
agent of the Government.

 (12) The Authority may, for any reason that appears to it to be
sufficient, at any time revoke an individual’s appointment as a
compliance officer.

                                    PART 11

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Unlawful gambling place a public nuisance, etc.

 124.—(1) Every unlawful gambling place is declared to be a
common and public nuisance contrary to law.

 (2) The provision of a gambling service pursuant to and in
accordance with a licence at a gambling venue or a class licence
anywhere does not of itself constitute a public nuisance or private
nuisance at law.

 (3) [Deleted by Act 31 of 2023 wef 30/05/2025]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          191

Standards for licensees and class licensees, etc.

 125.—(1) The Authority may —

       (a) issue one or more standards applicable to licensees, class
            licensees or suppliers of gaming machines, or specified
            types of licensees, class licensees or suppliers of gaming
            machines;

       (b) approve as a standard applicable to licensees, class
            licensees or suppliers of gaming machines, or specified
            types of licensees, class licensees or suppliers of gaming
            machines, any document prepared by a person other than
            the Authority if the Authority considers the document as
            suitable for this purpose; or

       (c) amend or revoke any standard issued under paragraph (a)
            or approved under paragraph (b),

with respect to all or any of the matters in subsection (2) or (3), as the
case may be.

 (2) The matters for the purposes of subsection (1) include any
matter that is necessary, expedient or conducive to the attainment or
furtherance of the licensing objectives, such as any of the following:

       (a) advertising and inducements to gamble related to a
            gambling service authorised by a licence or class licence;

       (b) measures directed towards ensuring the maintenance of
            public confidence in the integrity of, and keeping secure,
            the provision of a gambling service authorised by a licence
            or class licence;

       (c) responsible gambling;

       (d) operations of any gambling service provided, including
            internal controls and changes in management or key
            officers;

       (e) technical requirements for the proper functions and
            operating of gambling articles, gaming machines,
            peripheral equipment for gaming machines and requisite
            surveillance systems;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
192  NO. 15 OF 2022

        (f) relating to the conduct of the employees of a licensee or
            class licensee and gambling service agents of a licensee;

       (g) measures to deal with customer complaints, and the
            processes to handle and dispose of such complaints.

 (3) A standard may, in particular, specify the duties and obligations
of any licensee, class licensee or supplier of gaming machines in
relation to its business operation insofar as it relates to the provision
of a gambling service authorised by its licence or class licence or the
supply of gaming machines.

 (4) If any provision in any standard is inconsistent with any
provision of this Act, that provision, to the extent of the
inconsistency —

       (a) is to have effect subject to this Act; or

       (b) having regard to this Act, is not to have effect.

 (5) Where a standard is issued, approved, amended or revoked by
the Authority under subsection (1), the Authority must —

       (a) give notice of the issue, approval, amendment or
            revocation (as the case may be) of the standard —

               (i) to every licensee and supplier of gaming machines to
                   whom the standard applies; and

              (ii) to every class licensee to whom the standard applies
                   by publishing the notice on the prescribed website
                   mentioned in section 61(3) or in one or more other
                   forms that are readily accessible by the public;

       (b) specify in the notice mentioned in paragraph (a) the date of
            issue, approval, amendment or revocation, as the case may
            be; and

       (c) ensure that, so long as the standard remains in force, copies
            of that standard, and of all amendments to that standard,
            are available for inspection, free of charge, by the
            licensees, class licensees or suppliers of gaming
            machines to whom the standard applies.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          193

 (6) No standard, no amendment to an approved standard, and no
revocation of any approved standard, has any force or effect as an
approved standard until the notice relating thereto is given in
accordance with subsection (5).

 (7) A standard issued or approved under this section does not have
legislative effect.

 (8) Subject to subsection (9), every licensee, class licensee and
supplier of gaming machines must comply with the standards
applicable to the licensee, class licensee or supplier of gaming
machines.

 (9) The Authority may, for such time as the Authority may specify,
waive the application of any standard or part of a standard, issued or
approved under this section to any particular licensee, class licensee
or supplier of gaming machines.

 (10) In subsection (2)(b), “secure” means secure from loss, theft,
sabotage or unauthorised access.

Regulations

 126.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations necessary or convenient to be prescribed for
carrying out or giving effect to this Act.

 (2) In particular, the Authority, with the approval of the Minister,
may make regulations for any matter specified in the First Schedule.

 (3) Regulations made under this section may apply —

       (a) to all forms or kinds of betting, games of chance or lotteries
            or particular forms or kinds of betting, games of chance or
            lotteries;

       (b) in respect of the conduct of all forms of regulated activities
            or particular categories of regulated activities;

       (c) in respect of all licences or particular types of licences;

       (d) in respect of all gambling venues or particular categories of
            gambling venues;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
194  NO. 15 OF 2022

       (e) in respect of all gaming machines or particular types of
            gaming machines; and

        (f) in respect of all gambling articles (other than gaming
            machines) or particular types of such gambling articles.

Incorporation by reference, etc.

 127.—(1) Any Regulation may make provision for or in relation to
a matter by applying, adopting or incorporating by reference, with or
without modification, any material contained in any code, standard,
rule, requirement, specification or other document, as in force at a
particular time or from time to time, which relates to any matter with
which the Regulation deals, even if the code, standard, rule,
requirement, specification or other document does not yet exist
when the Regulation is made.

 (2) Material referred to in subsection (1) may be applied, adopted or
incorporated by reference in any Regulation —

       (a) in whole or in part; or

       (b) with modifications, additions or variations specified in the
            Regulation.

 (3) A copy of any material applied, adopted or incorporated by
reference in any Regulation, including any amendment to, or
replacement of, the material, must be —

       (a) certified as a correct copy of the material by the Authority;
            and

       (b) retained by the Authority.

 (4) Any material applied, adopted or incorporated in any
Regulation by reference under subsection (1) is to be treated for all
purposes as forming part of the Regulation; and, unless otherwise
provided in the Regulation, every amendment to any material
incorporated by reference under subsection (1) that is made by the
person or organisation originating the material is, subject to
subsections (5) and (6), to be treated as being a part of that
Regulation.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          195

 (5) Where any material referred to in subsection (1) is applied,
adopted or incorporated by reference in any Regulation, the Authority
must give notice in the Gazette stating —

       (a) that the material is incorporated in the Regulation and the
            date on which the relevant provision in the Regulation was
            made;

       (b) that the material is available for inspection during working
            hours, free of charge;

       (c) the place where the material can be inspected;

       (d) that copies of the material can be purchased;

       (e) the place where the material can be purchased; and

        (f) if copies of the material are available in other ways, the
            details of where or how the material can be accessed or
            obtained.

 (6) The Authority must cause a copy of every code, standard, rule,
requirement or specification incorporated by reference under
subsection (1) to be made available for inspection by members of
the public without charge at the office of the Authority during normal
office hours.

 (7) In this section, “modification” includes omissions, additions
and substitutions.

Exemption

 128. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person
or class of persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act, either
generally or in a particular case and subject to such conditions as the
Minister may impose.

Presentation to Parliament

 129. All orders and Regulations made under this Act must be
presented to Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the
Gazette.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
196  NO. 15 OF 2022

Offences by corporations

 130.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                   type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                   take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                   commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          197

offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership;

      “reasonable steps”, in relation to the commission of an offence,
         includes, but is not limited to, such action (if any) of the
         following kinds as is reasonable in all the circumstances:

              (a) action towards —

                     (i) assessing the corporation’s compliance with
                          the provision creating the offence; and

                     (ii) ensuring that the corporation arranged regular
                          professional assessments of its compliance
                          with the provision;

              (b) action towards ensuring that the corporation’s
                   employees, agents and contractors are provided
                   with information, training, instruction and
                   supervision appropriate to them to enable them to
                   comply with the provision creating the offence so far
                   as the provision is relevant to them;

              (c) action towards ensuring that —

                     (i) the equipment and other resources; and

                     (ii) the structures, work systems and other
                          processes,

              (c) relevant to compliance with the provision creating
                   the offence are appropriate in all the circumstances;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
198  NO. 15 OF 2022

              (d) action towards creating and maintaining a corporate
                   culture that does not direct, encourage, tolerate or
                   lead to non‑compliance with the provision creating
                   the offence;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with such modifications as the Minister
considers appropriate, to any corporation formed or recognised under
the law of a territory outside Singapore.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 131.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          199

                   unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                   case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                   offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the unincorporated
                   association or partnership; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the unincorporated association or
                   partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                   be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                   reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                   that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
200  NO. 15 OF 2022

 (6) In this section —

      “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

      “reasonable steps” has the meaning given by section 130, except
         that any reference to the corporation is a reference to the
         unincorporated association or partnership mentioned in
         subsection (2);

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 30/10/2024]

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with such modifications as the Minister
considers appropriate, to any unincorporated association or
partnership formed or recognised under the law of a territory
outside Singapore.

Jurisdiction of courts

 132. Despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, a District Court or
a Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to try, and has power to impose
the full punishment for, any offence under this Act.

Service of documents

 133.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by post to the address specified by the
            individual for the service of documents or, if no address is
            so specified, the individual’s residential address or
            business address;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          201

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual; or

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner, secretary or other similar officer
            of the partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the
            partnership’s business address;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
            partnership’s business address; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
            address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
            body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
            limited liability partnership’s manager;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the registered
            office or principal office in Singapore of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the registered
            office or principal office in Singapore of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
202  NO. 15 OF 2022

       (d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association.

 (5) In addition, a document (other than a summons) permitted or
required by this Act to be served on an individual, a partnership, a
body corporate or an unincorporated association may be served —

       (a) by giving an electronic notice to the individual,
            partnership, body corporate or unincorporated
            association (called in this section an addressee) by the
            addressee’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
            document is available and how the addressee may use the
            addressee’s chosen means of access to access the
            document’s contents; or

       (b) by any other method authorised by the Regulations for the
            service of documents of that kind if the addressee consents
            (expressly or impliedly) to service of a document of that
            kind in that way.

 (6) Service of a document takes effect —

       (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
            successful transmission is received, on the day of
            transmission;

       (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
            becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
            it is sent;

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 30/10/2024]

       (c) if the document is sent by post, 2 days after the day the
            document was posted (even if it is returned undelivered);

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 30/10/2024]

       (d) if the document is served under subsection (5)(a), at the
            time the electronic notice is capable of being retrieved by
            the addressee by the addressee’s chosen means of
            notification, and the contents of the document are
            capable of being accessed by the addressee by the
            addressee’s chosen means of access; or

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 30/10/2024]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          203

       (e) at any other time prescribed by regulations for any other
            means of service.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 30/10/2024]

 (7) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email or by an electronic notice at the person’s chosen means of
notification, may be effected only with the person’s prior consent
(express or implied) to service in that way.

 (8) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

 (9) In this section —

      “business address” means —

              (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
                   last known place of business in Singapore; or

              (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
                   liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
                   last known place of business in Singapore;

      “chosen means of access”, for an addressee on whom is or is to
         be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
         means an electronic means the addressee agrees with the
         person giving or serving the document as the means by which
         the addressee may access that document’s contents;

      “chosen means of notification”, for an addressee on whom is or
         is to be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
         means an electronic means that the addressee nominates to
         the person giving or serving the document as the means by
         which the addressee may be notified that such a document
         has been served on the addressee;

      “document” includes a notice or an order permitted or required
         by this Act to be served;

      “last email address” means the last email address given by the
         addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
         document as the email address for the service of documents
         under this Act;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
204  NO. 15 OF 2022

     “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
        place of residence in Singapore.

                                   PART 12

       AMENDMENTS TO CASINO CONTROL ACT 2006

Amendments concerning exclusion orders

 134.—(1) Section 2(1) of the Casino Control Act 2006 is
amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “barred from entering or remaining
            on any casino premises by” in the definition of “excluded
            person” and substituting the words “subject to”; and

       (b) by deleting “120,” in paragraph (a) of the definition of
            “excluded person”.

 (2) Section 105(2) of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended by
deleting the words “fruit machine under the Private Lotteries
Act 2011” in paragraph (b) and substituting the words “gaming
machine under the Gambling Control Act 2022”.

 (3) Sections 120 and 124 of the Casino Control Act 2006 are
repealed.

 (4) Section 121 of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “orally or” in subsection (1);

       (b) by deleting subsection (2) and substituting the following
            subsection:

                    “(2) The Authority may at any time revoke an
                  exclusion order made under subsection (1).”; and

       (c) by inserting, immediately after the words “each casino
            operator” in subsection (3), the words “and the Council”.

 (5) Section 122 of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended —

       (a) by inserting, immediately after subsection (1), the
            following subsection:

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          205

                    “(1A) The Commissioner of Police may at any time
                  revoke an exclusion order made under
                  subsection (1).”;

       (b) by inserting, immediately after the words “each casino
            operator” in subsection (2), the words “, the Council”; and

       (c) by inserting, immediately after subsection (3), the
            following subsections:

                    “(4) However, no appeal may be made to the
                  Minister under subsection (3) unless the person who
                  has been given an exclusion order under this section
                  first applies to the Commissioner of Police to
                  reconsider the making of the exclusion order and
                  the Commissioner of Police refuses to revoke the
                  exclusion order in whole or in part.

                    (5) An application for reconsideration under
                  subsection (4) and an appeal under subsection (3)
                  must be made within the time and manner prescribed
                  by the Minister in rules published in the Gazette.

                    (6) In this section and sections 123 and 168(3)(b), a
                  reference to the “Commissioner of Police” includes a
                  reference to a public officer who —

                          (a) holds a post in a law enforcement agency
                               within the meaning of section 186(6); and

                          (b) is designated by the Minister for the
                               purposes of this section and sections 123
                               and 168(3)(b).”.

 (6) Section 123 of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended —

       (a) by inserting, immediately after the words “each casino
            operator” in subsection (2), the words “, the Council”; and

       (b) by inserting, immediately after the words “each casino
            operator” in subsection (3), the words “and the Council”.

 (7) Section 125(2) of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended by
inserting, immediately after the words “or 165(1),” in paragraph (a),

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
206  NO. 15 OF 2022

the words “a family exclusion order made under section 162, a
provisional family exclusion order made under section 164,”.

 (8) Section 126(2) of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended by
deleting paragraph (a).

 (9) Section 128(1) of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended by
deleting “120,” in paragraph (a).

 (10) Section 132(2) of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended by
deleting “$1,000” and substituting “$1,500”.

 (11) Section 153(1) of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended —

       (a) by inserting, immediately after the definition of
            “Committee”, the following definition:

                  “ “defined work” means —

                                (a) in relation to casino premises of a
                                     casino operator —

                                        (i) to deliver any goods, provide
                                            any services or perform any
                                            work (whether as a contractor
                                            or an employee) that is
                                            connected to the business,
                                            undertaking or work of the
                                            casino operator carried on at
                                            the casino premises;

                                       (ii) to seek a contract of
                                            employment or contract for
                                            service with the casino
                                            operator; or

                                      (iii) to execute an order of a court or
                                            a direction given by or on
                                            behalf of a public officer or a
                                            public authority in exercise of a
                                            power under any written law; or

                                (b) in relation to a gaming machine room
                                     of a gambling operator —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          207

                                 (i) to deliver any goods, provide
                                     any services or perform any
                                     work (whether as a contractor
                                     or an employee) that is
                                     connected to the business,
                                     undertaking or work of the
                                     gambling operator carried on
                                     at the gaming machine room;

                                (ii) to seek a contract of
                                     employment or contract for
                                     service with the gambling
                                     operator; or

                               (iii) to execute an order of a court or
                                     a direction given by or on
                                     behalf of a public officer or a
                                     public authority in exercise of a
                                     power under any written law;”;

(b) by inserting, immediately after the definition of “family
     member”, the following definitions:

           “ “gambling” means gambling whether or not inside
                casino premises, and includes remote gambling;

             “gambling operator” means a person who is
                authorised either by a licence under the
                Gambling Control Act 2022 to conduct a
                betting operation, or conduct gaming or a
                lottery involving —

                         (a) playing of gaming machines; or

                         (b) remote gambling;

             “gaming machine room” has the meaning given by
                section 7(6) of the Gambling Control Act 2022;

             “general remote gambling” and “engaging in
                general remote gambling” have the meanings
                given by section 11(1) of the Gambling Control
                Act 2022;”; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
208  NO. 15 OF 2022

      (c) by deleting the words “from any casino premises under
           section 165A(1)(c) upon a voluntary application of that
           person” in the definition of “self‑exclusion” and
           substituting the words “from any casino premises or
           gaming machine room, or from engaging in all manner
           of general remote gambling, upon a voluntary application
           of that person under section 165A(1)(c)”.

(12) Section 159(3) of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended —

      (a) by deleting the words “or any casino operator” in
           paragraph (a) and substituting the words “, any casino
           operator or gambling operator”; and

      (b) by deleting the words “or casino operator” in paragraph (a)
           and substituting the words “, casino operator or gambling
           operator”.

(13) Section 163(2) of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended —

      (a) by deleting paragraph (b) and substituting the following
           paragraph:

                       “(b) ban the respondent from —

                                (i) entering or remaining on all casino
                                    premises; or

                               (ii) taking part in any gaming in all
                                    casino premises;”; and

      (b) by deleting the full‑stop at the end of paragraph (d) and
           substituting a semi‑colon, and by inserting immediately
           thereafter the following paragraphs:

                       “(e) ban the respondent from —

                                (i) entering or remaining on all gaming
                                    machine rooms except to perform
                                    defined work within any of those
                                    rooms; or

                               (ii) taking part in any gaming in all
                                    gaming machine rooms;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          209

                          (f) require the respondent to not engage in all
                               manner of general remote gambling;

                          (g) all bans and requirements in
                               paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) or
                               any combination thereof.”.

 (14) Section 164(2) of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended by
inserting, immediately after the words “A provisional family
exclusion order”, the words “may do one or more things mentioned
in section 163(2) and”.

 (15) Section 165 of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the word “activities” in subsection (2)(c) and
            substituting the words “whether or not”;

       (b) by deleting the words “or any casino operator” in
            subsection (3)(a) and substituting the words “, any
            casino operator or gambling operator”;

       (c) by deleting the words “or casino operator” in
            subsection (3)(a) and substituting the words “, casino
            operator or gambling operator”; and

       (d) by deleting subsection (6) and substituting the following
            subsection:

                    “(6) An exclusion order made under subsection (1)
                  may do any of the following:

                          (a) ban the respondent from —

                                 (i) entering or remaining on all casino
                                      premises; or

                                 (ii) taking part in any gaming in all
                                      casino premises;

                          (b) ban the respondent from —

                                 (i) entering or remaining on all gaming
                                      machine rooms except to perform
                                      defined work within any of those
                                      rooms; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
210  NO. 15 OF 2022

                               (ii) taking part in any gaming in all
                                    gaming machine rooms;

                        (c) require the respondent to not engage in all
                             manner of general remote gambling;

                        (d) all bans and requirements in
                             paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) or any
                             combination thereof,

                 for as long as the circumstances in subsection (1) exist
                 in relation to that person or for such other period as
                 may be specified in the order.”.

(16) Section 165A of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended —

      (a) by deleting the words “excluded from entering or
           remaining, or taking part in any gaming, on any casino
           premises” in subsection (1) and substituting the words
           “subject to this section”;

      (b) by deleting paragraph (c) of subsection (1) and substituting
           the following paragraph:

                       “(c) a person who makes a voluntary
                             application in the prescribed form and
                             manner to the Council for any of the
                             following:

                                (i) ban the person from —

                                      (A) entering or remaining on all
                                           casino premises; or

                                      (B) taking part in any gaming in all
                                           casino premises;

                               (ii) ban the person from —

                                      (A) entering or remaining on all
                                           gaming machine rooms except
                                           to perform defined work within
                                           any of those rooms; or

                                      (B) taking part in any gaming in all
                                           gaming machine rooms;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          211

                              (iii) ban the person from engaging in all
                                    manner of general remote gambling;

                              (iv) all bans in sub‑paragraphs (i), (ii) and
                                    (iii) or any combination thereof.”;
                                    and

      (c) by deleting subsection (3) and substituting the following
           subsection:

                  “(3) A person mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b)
                 is excluded from all of the following, starting the time
                 the person’s name is entered in the list of excluded
                 persons in section 168(1) and continues for so long as
                 the circumstances in subsection (1)(a) or (b) exist in
                 relation to that person:

                        (a) from —

                                (i) entering or remaining on all casino
                                    premises except to perform defined
                                    work within any of those premises;
                                    and

                               (ii) taking part in any gaming in all
                                    casino premises;

                        (b) from —

                                (i) entering or remaining on all gaming
                                    machine rooms except to perform
                                    defined work within any of those
                                    rooms; and

                               (ii) taking part in any gaming in all
                                    gaming machine rooms;

                        (c) from engaging in all manner of general
                             remote gambling.”.

(17) Section 168 of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended —

      (a) by deleting the words “excluded from any casino premises
           by” in subsection (1)(a) and substituting the words “the
           respondent of”;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
212  NO. 15 OF 2022

     (b) by deleting the word “or” at the end of subsection (1)(a);

     (c) by deleting the full‑stop at the end of paragraph (b) of
          subsection (1) and substituting a semi‑colon, and by
          inserting immediately thereafter the following paragraphs:

                      “(c) the person against whom an exclusion
                            order is made under section 121(1) or
                            122(1); or

                       (d) the person against whom an entry ban is
                            made under section 79 of the Gambling
                            Control Act 2022.”;

     (d) by deleting subsection (3) and substituting the following
          subsection:

                 “(3) The Council —

                       (a) must provide the list of excluded persons
                            to —

                               (i) the Authority;

                              (ii) the Commissioner of Police; and

                             (iii) every casino operator; and

                       (b) must make available to every gambling
                            operator access to the list of excluded
                            persons, without charge.”;

     (e) by deleting the word “or” at the end of subsection (4)(b);

     (f) by deleting the comma at the end of paragraph (c) of
          subsection (4) and substituting a semi‑colon, and by
          inserting immediately thereafter the following paragraphs:

                    “(ca) the lapsing or revocation of any exclusion
                            order made under section 121(1) or 122(1)
                            against any person whose name is on the
                            list of excluded persons; or

                      (cb) the lapsing or cancelling of an entry ban
                            made under section 79 of the Gambling
                            Control Act 2022 against any person whose

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          213

                               name is on the list of excluded persons,”;
                               and

       (g) by deleting the words “, (b) and (c)” in subsections (4)(e)
            and (5).

Amendments concerning offences, etc.

 135.—(1) The Casino Control Act 2006 is amended by inserting,
immediately before section 171 in Part 11, the following section:

      “Proxy gambling outside of casino

       170D.—(1) An individual who —

             (a) is not present within the casino premises; and

             (b) is an individual on whose behalf another individual is
                  gambling in the casino premises,

      shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
      fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
      exceeding 12 months or to both.

       (2) To avoid doubt, subsection (1) applies whether or not the
      individual —

             (a) who is in any casino premises; and

             (b) who gambles within the casino premises on behalf of
                  an accused charged with an offence under
                  subsection (1),

      is convicted of any offence under the provisions of this Act.”.

 (2) Section 172 of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended by
inserting, immediately after subsection (4), the following subsection:

       “(5) This section applies only in relation to —

             (a) a gaming machine that is situated within a casino; and

             (b) gaming equipment used for or in connection with
                  gaming within a casino.”.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
214  NO. 15 OF 2022

                                   PART 13

           REPEALS, AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS
                        AND FINAL PROVISIONS

Amendment of Civil Law Act 1909

 136. Section 5 of the Civil Law Act 1909 is amended —

       (a) by inserting, immediately before the words “Common
            Gaming Houses Act 1961” in subsections (3A)(a), (3B),
            (3C) and (3E) (definition of “private body”), the word
            “repealed”;

       (b) by inserting, immediately before the words “Betting
            Act 1960” in subsections (3A)(b) and (3D), the word
            “repealed”;

       (c) by inserting, immediately before the words “Remote
            Gambling Act 2014” in subsections (3A)(ba)(i) and
            (3DA), the word “repealed”;

       (d) by deleting the word “and” at the end of
            subsection (3A)(c);

       (e) by inserting, immediately before the words “Private
            Lotteries Act 2011” in subsections (3A)(d) and (3E)
            (definition of “private lottery”), the word “repealed”; and

        (f) by deleting the full‑stop at the end of paragraph (d) of
            subsection (3A) and substituting the word “; and”, and by
            inserting immediately thereafter the following paragraph:

                        “(e) a contract by way of gaming, wagering or
                               betting that is conducted, promoted,
                               organised or administered by —

                                 (i) a licensee or class licensee within the
                                      meaning of the Gambling Control
                                      Act 2022;

                                 (ii) a person mentioned in
                                      section 18(1)(d) or (f) of the
                                      Gambling Control Act 2022 in the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          215

                                      circumstances described in that
                                      section; or

                                (iii) a person who is exempted under
                                      section 128 of the Gambling
                                      Control Act 2022 from section 18
                                      of that Act.”.

Amendment and repeal of Private Lotteries Act 2011

 137.—(1) Section 8 of the Private Lotteries Act 2011 is amended —

       (a) by deleting subsection (3);

       (b) by deleting the words “the applicant or” in subsection (4);
            and

       (c) by deleting the words “refusing an application for a permit
            or” in subsection (6).

 (2) Section 9 of the Private Lotteries Act 2011 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “In granting” in subsection (1) and
            substituting the words “In respect of”; and

       (b) by deleting the words “in granting” in subsection (2) and
            substituting the words “in respect of”.

 (3) The Private Lotteries Act 2011 is repealed.

Amendment of Road Vehicles (Special Powers) Act 1960

 138. Paragraph 1 of the Schedule to the Road Vehicles (Special
Powers) Act 1960 is amended —

       (a) by inserting, immediately after the words “Betting
            Act 1960” in sub‑paragraph (b), the words “repealed by
            the Gambling Control Act 2022”;

       (b) by inserting, immediately after the words “Common
            Gaming Houses Act 1961” in sub‑paragraph (c), the
            words “repealed by the Gambling Control Act 2022”; and

       (c) by inserting, immediately after sub‑paragraph (j), the
            following sub‑paragraph:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
216  NO. 15 OF 2022

                      “(ja) sections 18(2), 19(2), 21(4), 22(4), 23(3), 24(2),

                                 25(3), 27(3), 29(2) and 36(1) of the Gambling
                                 Control Act 2022;”.

Repeal

 139. The following Acts are repealed:

       (a) the Betting Act 1960;

       (b) the Common Gaming Houses Act 1961;

       (c) the Remote Gambling Act 2014.

Saving and transitional provisions

 140.—(1) The Second Schedule has effect.

 (2) Except as otherwise expressly provided in the Second Schedule,
where any period of time specified in any former provision is current
immediately before the date of commencement for the repeal of the
former provision, this Act has effect as if the corresponding provision
in this Act had been in force when the period began to run; and any
period of time so specified and current is deemed for the purposes of
this Act —

       (a) to run from the date or event from which it was running
            immediately before that day; and

       (b) to expire (subject to any provision of this Act for its
            extension) whenever it would have expired if this Act had
            not been enacted.

 (3) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of this
section, the Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend the Second
Schedule by prescribing such additional provisions of a saving or
transitional nature consequent on the enactment of this section as the
Minister may consider necessary or expedient.

 (4) Nothing in this section or the Second Schedule affects
section 16 of the Interpretation Act 1965.

 (5) In this section, “former provision” means any provision in an
Act repealed under section 137(3) or 139.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          217

                             FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 126

                      SUBJECT MATTER OF REGULATIONS

                PART 1 — LICENCES, APPROVALS AND FEES

 1. The form and manner in which, and the time within which, an application for
the grant of a licence or other approval may be made under this Act.

 2. The carrying out of inquiries of applicants for a licence or other approval
under this Act.

 3. The amounts of fees, or the method or rates by which the fees are to be
ascertained, to be paid in respect of applications for or the grant of a licence or
other approval under any provision of this Act, and of any thing else done by the
Authority in connection with the administration of this Act.

 3A. Providing for the fee for a licence to provide any gambling service to
include an amount in respect of the costs of the NCPG (including any secretary or
officer of the NCPG) in connection with the performance of the NCPG’s functions
under Part 10 of the Casino Control Act 2006 as they relate to the gambling service
authorised by the licence.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 30/10/2024]

 4. The person or classes of persons liable for payment of those fees.

 5. The manner in which those fees have to be paid.

 6. The circumstances in which penalty for default in payment of those fees is
payable or the payment of the whole or a part of those fees may be remitted,
waived or refunded.

                       PART 2 — GAMBLING OPERATIONS

 1. The systems for the management and operation of regulated activities and
gaming machines and other gambling articles.

 2. The records that must be kept by licensees and the provision of returns and
other information with respect to the activities authorised by their respective
licences, including audio and visual records about those activities.

 3. Auditing, reporting on, and monitoring persons who provide a gambling
service.

 4. The days on, and the hours during, which licensees may carry on the regulated
activities authorised by their respective licences, and the activities that may be
undertaken.

 5. The maintenance, security, and storage of gambling articles, gaming
machines and peripheral equipment for gaming machines.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
218  NO. 15 OF 2022

                            FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

 6. The payment and recording of winnings.

 7. The maximum stake that may be placed in gambling authorised by this Act.

 8. Restrict or prohibit publishing or giving inducements to gamble.

 9. The use and maintenance of security and surveillance facilities, including
closed‑circuit television systems and the utilisation of security personnel.

 10. The designation of areas within a gambling venue where gambling may be
carried on lawfully.

 11. The approval of, and procedures for the approval of, alterations to floor plans
of, and the placement of furniture, gaming machines and gambling articles in,
gambling areas where gambling may be carried on lawfully.

 12. Regulating the intensity of gambling, including the frequency at which
successive games may be played or successive bets may be placed and the kinds or
frequency of information or messages that must be displayed to gamblers during a
playing session, for example, the duration of the session, losses during the session,
reminders about the desirability of breaks in the session, warnings about problem
gambling and advice about sources of assistance for problem gambling.

 13. Restricting or prohibiting the advertising of gambling or gambling delivery
mechanisms.

 14. Reporting of circumstances that affect suitability of individuals being
responsible executives or key officers of a licensee.

 15. The submission of reports by licensee.

 16. The establishment of a system of awarding demerit points for the purpose of
regulatory actions against licensees or class licensees or suppliers of gaming
machines.

                                    PART 3 — PRIZES

 1. Restrict or prohibit any property (whether real or personal) or services being
offered or used as a prize for gambling.

 2. Specify a quantity or dollar value of any money or money equivalent that may
not be offered or used as a prize for gambling carried on in the course of licensed
regulated activities.

 3. Specify circumstances in which —

        (a) any money or money equivalent or any thing else of value may not be
             offered or used as a prize for gambling; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          219

                   FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

(b) a quantity or dollar value of any money or money equivalent or any
     thing else of value may not be offered or used as a prize for gambling.

                                  PART 4 — GENERAL

 1. The offences under any provision of this Act that may be compounded.

 2. Create offences for a contravention of any provision of the Regulations, the
penalty for which on conviction may be a fine not exceeding $10,000 or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or both.

 3. Provide for such saving, transitional and other consequential, incidental and
supplemental provisions as are necessary or expedient for the purposes of this Act.

                           SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                                Sections 3 and 140

                  SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

                             PART 1 — PERMITS UNDER
                           PRIVATE LOTTERIES ACT 2011

 1.—(1) Every permit that —

        (a) is granted, before the date of commencement of section 137(3), under
             section 8 of the repealed Private Lotteries Act 2011 to a person for the
             promotion or conduct of a private lottery that does not involve the use
             of one or more fruit machines; and

        (b) is in force immediately before that date,

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to continue as if it
were a licence granted under section 54 to the person authorising that person to
conduct a lottery, until that permit expires or is earlier revoked under section 88.

 (2) Every permit that —

        (a) is granted, before the date of commencement of section 137(3), under
             section 8 of the repealed Private Lotteries Act 2011 to a person for the
             promotion or conduct of a private lottery that involves the use of one or
             more fruit machines; and

        (b) is in force immediately before that date,

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to continue as if it
were a licence granted under section 54 to the person authorising that person to
conduct gaming using gaming machines, until that permit expires or is earlier
revoked under section 88.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
220  NO. 15 OF 2022

                          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

 (3) Where the same person is by virtue of sub‑paragraph (1) or (2) deemed
granted several licences under section 54, the Authority may treat the several
licences as a single licence granted under that section to that same person if the
conditions of the permit mentioned in sub‑paragraph (1) or (2) are substantially
identical.

 2.—(1) In the case of a permit mentioned in paragraph 1(1), every premises
specified in the permit are, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act, deemed to be approved under section 64 as an approved gambling venue for
the promotion or conduct of the lottery until that permit expires or the approval is
earlier revoked under section 93.

 (2) In the case of a permit mentioned in paragraph 1(2) —

        (a) every premises specified in the permit are, so far as it is not
             inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, deemed to be approved
             under section 64 as an approved gambling venue for the conduct of
             gaming using those fruit machines, until that permit expires or the
             approval is earlier revoked under section 93; and

        (b) every fruit machine approved for use under that permit are, so far as it
             is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, deemed to be
             installed with an approved game under section 74 for the conduct of
             gaming using those fruit machines, until that permit expires or the
             approval is earlier revoked under section 96.

 3. Any reference to the permit officer in a condition of a permit mentioned in
paragraph 1(1) or (2) is a reference to the Authority.

 4. Any proceedings with respect to a permit mentioned in paragraph 1(1) that
are —

        (a) started in exercise of powers under section 8(5) of the repealed Private
             Lotteries Act 2011; and

        (b) pending immediately before the date of commencement of
             section 137(3),

may be continued under that repealed Act as if section 137(3) had not been
enacted.

 5. Where proceedings for a regulatory sanction are started under section 88, 89,
93 or 94 on or after the date of commencement of section 137(3) —

        (a) against a person who is deemed under paragraph 1 granted a licence or
             under paragraph 2 granted an approval under section 64 for premises as
             an approved gambling venue; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          221

                          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

        (b) for the person engaging in conduct before the date of commencement
             of section 137(3) that would have been a ground for suspending or
             revoking the person’s permit under section 8(5) of the repealed Private
             Lotteries Act 2011 if not for the repeal,

the Authority may only suspend or revoke the licence under section 8(5) of that
repealed Act for that conduct, despite sections 88, 89, 93 and 94.

 6. Where an appeal has been made to the Minister —

        (a) under section 8(6) of the repealed Private Lotteries Act 2011 before the
             date of commencement of section 137(3); and

        (b) the appeal has not been dealt with or disposed of immediately before
             that date,

the appeal may continue to be dealt with under that repealed Act as if
section 137(3) had not been enacted.

                         PART 2 — CERTIFICATES UNDER
                           REMOTE GAMBLING ACT 2014

 1. Every certificate of exemption that —

        (a) is issued, before the date of commencement of section 139(c), under
             section 26(1) of the repealed Remote Gambling Act 2014 to a person
             authorising the person to provide a Singapore‑based remote gambling
             service with a Singapore‑customer link of such type as is specified in
             the certificate; and

        (b) is in force immediately before that date,

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to continue as if it
were a licence granted under section 54 to the person authorising that person to
correspondingly provide a gambling service consisting of providing a
Singapore‑based remote gambling service with a Singapore‑customer link of
such type as is specified in the certificate, until that certificate expires or is earlier
revoked under section 88.

 2. Every premises specified in a condition of a certificate of exemption
mentioned in paragraph 1 are, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act, deemed to be approved under section 64 as an approved gambling venue
for providing a Singapore‑based remote gambling service with a
Singapore‑customer link of such type as is specified in the certificate, until that
certificate expires or is earlier revoked under section 93.

 3. Any proceedings in respect of a certificate of exemption mentioned in
paragraph 1 that —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
222  NO. 15 OF 2022

                          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

        (a) have started in exercise of powers under section 30 of the repealed
             Remote Gambling Act 2014; and

        (b) are pending immediately before the date of commencement of
             section 139(c),

may be continued and completed under that repealed Act as if section 139(c) had
not been enacted.

 4. Where proceedings for a regulatory sanction are started under section 88, 89,
93 or 94 on or after the date of commencement of section 139(c) —

        (a) against a person who is deemed under paragraph 1 granted a licence;
             and

        (b) for the person engaging in conduct before the date of commencement
             of section 139(c) that would have been a ground for imposing any
             regulatory sanction against the person under section 30 of the repealed
             Remote Gambling Act 2014 if not for the repeal,

the Authority may only impose a regulatory sanction specified in section 30 of that
repealed Act for that conduct, despite sections 88, 89, 92 and 94.

 5. Any reference to the Minister or an authorised officer appointed under the
repealed Remote Gambling Act 2014 in a condition of a certificate of exemption
mentioned in paragraph 1 is a reference to the Authority.

                     PART 3 — BLOCKING ORDERS UNDER
                           REMOTE GAMBLING ACT 2014

 1. Every access blocking order that —

        (a) is made, before the date of commencement of section 139(c), under
             section 20(1) of the repealed Remote Gambling Act 2014; and

        (b) is in force immediately before that date,

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to continue as if it
were an access blocking order made by an authorised officer under Part 9 of this
Act.

 2. Every payment blocking order that —

        (a) is made, before the date of commencement of section 139(c), under
             section 21(1) of the repealed Remote Gambling Act 2014; and

        (b) is in force immediately before that date,

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          223

                          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to continue as if it
were a payment blocking order made by an authorised officer under Part 9 of this
Act.

 3. Every application to review an access blocking order or a payment blocking
order that —

        (a) is made, before the date of commencement of section 139(c), under
             section 22(2) of the repealed Remote Gambling Act 2014; and

        (b) is pending immediately before the date of commencement of
             section 139(c),

may be continued and completed under that repealed Act as if section 139(c) had
not been enacted.

             PART 4 — GRACE PERIOD FOR EXEMPT PERSONS

 1.—(1) Despite Part 2, every person who, immediately before the date of
commencement of section 139(a) or (b), is by notification made under the
repealed Betting Act 1960, exempt from all the provisions of that repealed Act in
respect of the provision of a gambling service described in sub‑paragraph (2) may
continue to provide that gambling service —

        (a) for 5 months after that date; and

        (b) if within that period the person applies for a licence under Part 4, for a
             further period ending on the happening of the earlier of the following:

                  (i) the date on which the Authority grants a licence to the person;

                 (ii) the date that the application is finally refused or is withdrawn.

 (2) The gambling service mentioned in sub‑paragraph (1) is —

        (a) the promotion, organisation, administration, operation or conduct of
             any betting in connection with —

                  (i) any of the public lotteries known as Singapore Sweep Draw,
                      Toto Games Draw or 4‑Digit Numbers Games Draw;

                 (ii) any Singapore Premier League football match in Singapore;

                (iii) any other football match in Singapore (not being a Singapore
                      Premier League football match) that is organised, sanctioned in
                      writing or hosted by the Football Association of Singapore;

                (iv) any football match outside Singapore that is organised,
                      sanctioned or hosted by —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
224  NO. 15 OF 2022

                          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

                       (A) the Fédération Internationale de Football Association
                             (called in this sub‑paragraph FIFA) or any of its member
                             confederations or member national associations; or

                        (B) a body which is an assign or a successor of FIFA or any of
                             its member confederations or member national
                             associations; or

                 (v) the Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile Formula One
                      World Championship;

        (b) the promotion, organisation, administration, operation or conduct of
             any betting in connection with any horse‑racing in Singapore or
             overseas;

        (c) the establishment, promotion, organisation, administration, operation
             or conduct of any totalisator; or

        (d) the establishment or operation of any totalisator agency.

 2.—(1) Despite Part 2, every person who, immediately before the date of
commencement of section 139(a) or (b), is by notification made under the
repealed Common Gaming Houses Act 1961, exempt from all the provisions of
that repealed Act in respect of the provision of a gambling service described in
sub‑paragraph (2) may continue to provide that gambling service —

        (a) for 5 months after that date; and

        (b) if within that period the person applies for a licence under Part 4, for a
             further period ending on the happening of the earlier of the following:

                  (i) the date on which the Authority grants a licence to the person;

                 (ii) the date that the application is finally refused or is withdrawn.

 (2) The gambling service mentioned in sub‑paragraph (1) is —

        (a) the promotion, organisation, administration, operation or conduct of
             any gaming or lottery in connection with —

                  (i) any of the public lotteries known as Singapore Sweep Draw,
                      Toto Games Draw or 4‑Digit Numbers Games Draw;

                 (ii) any Singapore Premier League football match in Singapore;

                (iii) any other football match in Singapore (not being a Singapore
                      Premier League football match) that is organised, sanctioned in
                      writing or hosted by the Football Association of Singapore;

                (iv) any football match outside Singapore that is organised,
                      sanctioned or hosted by —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          225

                          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

                       (A) the Fédération Internationale de Football Association
                             (called in this sub‑paragraph FIFA) or any of its member
                             confederations or member national associations; or

                        (B) a body which is an assign or a successor of FIFA or any of
                             its member confederations or member national
                             associations; or

                 (v) the Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile Formula One
                      World Championship;

        (b) the promotion, organisation, administration, operation or conduct of
             any gaming or lottery in connection with any horse‑racing in
             Singapore or overseas;

        (c) the establishment, promotion, organisation, administration, operation
             or conduct of any totalisator; or

        (d) the establishment or operation of any totalisator agency.

 3. Despite Part 2, every person who, immediately before the date of
commencement of section 139(a) or (b), is by the Common Gaming Houses
(Private Bodies — Exemption) Notification (N 8) made under the repealed
Common Gaming Houses Act 1961, exempt from all the provisions of that
repealed Act in respect of any provision of a gambling service may continue to
provide that gambling service —

        (a) for 12 months after that date; and

        (b) if within that period the person applies for a licence under Part 4, for a
             further period ending on the happening of the earlier of the following:

                  (i) the date on which the Authority grants a licence to the person;

                 (ii) the date that the application is finally refused or is withdrawn.

 4. Despite Part 2, every person who, immediately before the date of
commencement of section 139(a) or (b), is by the Common Gaming Houses
(Exemption) Notification (N 4) made under the repealed Common Gaming
Houses Act 1961, exempt from all the provisions of that repealed Act in respect of
any provision of a gambling service may continue to provide that gambling
service —

        (a) for 12 months after that date or until an order under section 60 is earlier
             made applicable to the person with respect to that gambling service
             provided; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
226  NO. 15 OF 2022

                          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

        (b) for 12 months after that date and, if within that period the person
             applies for a licence under Part 4, for a further period ending on the
             happening of the earlier of the following:

                  (i) the date on which the Authority grants a licence to the person;

                 (ii) the date that the application is finally refused or is withdrawn.

 5. Despite Part 2, every person who, immediately before the date of
commencement of section 139(c), is by the Remote Gambling (Exempt
Persons) Order 2015 (G.N. No. S 127/2015) made under the repealed Remote
Gambling Act 2014, exempt from all the provisions of that repealed Act in respect
of any provision of a remote gambling service may continue to provide that
gambling service —

        (a) for 12 months after that date or until an order under section 60 is earlier
             made applicable to the person with respect to that gambling service
             provided; or

        (b) for 12 months after that date and, if within that period the person
             applies for a licence under Part 4, for a further period ending on the
             happening of the earlier of the following:

                  (i) the date on which the Authority grants a licence to the person;

                 (ii) the date that the application is finally refused or is withdrawn.

                  PART 5 — GAMING MACHINES SUPPLIERS

 1. Despite section 29, every person who, immediately before the date of
commencement of section 137(3) is supplying any gaming machine that is
covered by a permit mentioned in paragraph 1 of Part 1 may continue to supply
gaming machines —

        (a) for 5 months after that date; and

        (b) if within that period the person applies under section 73 for approval
             under section 74, for a further period ending on the happening of the
             earlier of the following:

                  (i) the date on which the Authority grants approval under
                      section 74 to the person;

                 (ii) the date that the application is finally refused or is withdrawn.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
GAMBLING CONTROL                                          227

                          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

                     PART 6 — TOTALISATOR OPERATIONS

 1. Despite section 69, every rule in relation to the operation or conduct of any
totalisator, betting, gaming activity or lottery of any totalisator agency or any
agent appointed by the Singapore Totalisator Board that —

        (a) is approved by the Singapore Totalisator Board, before the date of
             commencement of section 139(c), under section 4(1)(f) of the
             Singapore Totalisator Board Act 1987 to a totalisator agency or any
             agent appointed by the Singapore Totalisator Board; and

        (b) is in force immediately before that date,

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to continue as if it
were an approval of rules of betting, game of chance or lottery granted under
section 70 of this Act to the totalisator agency or agent until that approval is
cancelled under Division 2 of Part 7.

                            PART 7 — OFFENCES UNDER
                   REPEALED REMOTE GAMBLING ACT 2014

 1.—(1) Despite section 139(c), any police officer or other public officer, or any
employee of a public authority —

        (a) who was appointed under section 32 of the Remote Gambling
             Act 2014 to exercise any power under section 36 of that Act; and

        (b) whose appointment as such is valid on 31 July 2022,

may, for a period of 12 months starting 1 August 2022, continue to compound in
accordance with section 36 of the Remote Gambling Act 2014 any compoundable
offence reasonably suspected to have been committed before 1 August 2022 under
that Act, as if section 139(c) had not been enacted.

 (2) In sub‑paragraph (1), “compoundable offence” means an offence prescribed
as a compoundable offence under the Remote Gambling (Composition of
Offences) Regulations 2015 (G.N. No. S 50/2015) before the repeal of the Remote
Gambling Act 2014 on 1 August 2022 by section 139(c).

                                                                                    [S 648/2022 wef 01/08/2022]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 21/9/2026
