THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                 PARKING PLACES ACT 1974

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                               2020 Ed.

         Parking Places Act 1974

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                      PART 1

                      PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Administration of this Act
     2.
     3.

                                       PART 2

                               PARKING PLACES

4. Authority may provide parking places
5. Use of property as private parking place
5A. Power to require maintenance, etc., of parking place
6. Adaptation of land for use as parking place
6A. Layout, etc., of parking lots in private parking places
6B. Deficiency charge
7. Authority not liable for loss or damage

                      PART 3

8. to 8T. [Repealed]

                                       PART 4
                             PARKING CHARGES

9. Parking charges for parking place provided under section 4
9A. Collection of parking charges

                                        PART 5

                 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

10. Plying for hire prohibited within parking place
11. Parking places to be indicated by traffic signs
12. Composition of offences

                                     1

                                                                              31.12.2021
2        Parking Places Act 1974                                        2020 Ed.

Section  Duty to give information
   13.   Liability of owner of vehicles for parking offences
   14.   Removal and detention, etc., of abandoned or illegally parked
   15.   vehicles
         Power to require information
   15A.  Power of entry
   15B.  False information in applications, etc.
   15C.  Penalty
   16.   Offences by corporations
   17.   Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   17A.  Service of summons, etc.
   18.   Obstruction of Authority, Superintendent, etc.
   19.   Protection from personal liability
   20.   Power to exempt
   21.   Rules
   22.

An Act relating to parking places and to address indiscriminate
  vehicle parking in public places because of shared mobility
  services.

                                                                                                 [24/2018; 8/2020]

                                                                  [3 May 1974]

              PART 1
         PRELIMINARY

                                              [24/2018]

Short title
 1. This Act is the Parking Places Act 1974.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Authority” means the Land Transport Authority of Singapore
         established under the Land Transport Authority of Singapore
         Act 1995;
2020 Ed.  Parking Places Act 1974                3

“bicycle”, “power-assisted bicycle” and “personal mobility
   device” have the meanings given by the Active Mobility
   Act 2017;

“design of parking facilities”, for any parking place, means the
   design of the physical features, plant or like equipment
   necessary for the parking or manoeuvring of vehicles in the
   parking place or both, and includes circulation aisles and
   access ramps;

“driver” includes the person for the time being in charge or in
   control of a vehicle, and “drive” is to be construed
   accordingly;

“enforcement officer”, in relation to any provision in this Act,
   means an officer or employee of the Authority who is
   appointed under section 3(4) as an enforcement officer for the
   purposes of that provision;

“heavy vehicle” means —

          (a) any heavy goods vehicle or concrete mixer, the
               maximum laden weight of which exceeds
               5,000 kilograms;

          (b) any bus with a seating capacity of more than
               15 persons, not inclusive of the driver;

          (c) any trailer, container trailer, low loader or flat-bed
              trailer, the maximum laden weight of which exceeds
              5,000 kilograms; and

          (d) any mobile crane or recovery vehicle, the unladen
               weight of which exceeds 2,500 kilograms;

“licence” means a licence to maintain or operate any private
   parking place for the parking or housing of one or more heavy
   vehicles granted under this Act;

“licensee” means the holder of a valid licence;

“motor vehicle” means a mechanically propelled vehicle
   intended or adapted for use on roads;

                                                 31.12.2021
4  Parking Places Act 1974                   2020 Ed.

   “officer” means a public officer or an employee of a statutory
      body;

   “outsourced enforcement officer”, in relation to any provision of
      this Act or any subsidiary legislation made under this Act,
      means an individual who —

   (a) is appointed under section 11 of the Land Transport
        Authority of Singapore Act 1995;

   (b) is authorised by or under that Act to exercise any
        powers under any provision of this Act or subsidiary
        legislation made under this Act, as the case may be;
        and

   (c) is acting within that authorisation;

   “park”, with its grammatical variations, means, in respect of a
      vehicle, to bring the vehicle to a stationary position and cause
      it to wait for any purpose;

   “parking lot” means an area within a parking place which is
      marked out for parking of a single vehicle in that area;

   “parking place” means any part of a road or any other place on or
      in which the parking of vehicles is authorised under section 4;

   “private footway” has the meaning given by the Street Works
      Act 1995;

   “private parking place” means any land or premises or part
      thereof owned or occupied by any person other than the
      Government and used for the parking or housing of —

   (a) one or more motor vehicles other than heavy
        vehicles;

   (b) one or more heavy vehicles, whether or not in
        addition to any motor vehicle which is not a heavy
        vehicle; or
2020 Ed.  Parking Places Act 1974                    5

          (c) one or more bicycles, power-assisted bicycles or
              personal mobility devices or a combination of such
              vehicles,

          but does not include any parking place provided under
          section 4;

“public street” has the meaning given by the Street Works
   Act 1995;

“statutory body” means a body corporate established or
   constituted by or under a public Act to perform or
   discharge a public function;

“Superintendent” means the Superintendent of Car Parks or a
   Deputy or an Assistant Superintendent of Car Parks
   appointed under section 3;

“traffic sign” has the meaning given by section 119 of the Road
   Traffic Act 1961;

“trailer” means a vehicle drawn by a motor vehicle;

“vehicle” means any vehicle whether mechanically propelled or
   otherwise, and includes a bicycle, a power-assisted bicycle or
   a personal mobility device.

          [3/2017; 24/2018; 38/2018; 8/2020]

Administration of this Act

 3.—(1) The Authority is responsible for the general administration
of this Act.

 (2) The Authority must appoint one of its officers as the
Superintendent of Car Parks who must carry out the duties
assigned to the Superintendent of Car Parks by the Authority under
this Act and any rules made under this Act.

 (3) The Authority may appoint public officers and officers
employed by other statutory bodies as Deputy Superintendents and
Assistant Superintendents of Car Parks for the purposes of this Act.

                                                     31.12.2021
6  Parking Places Act 1974  2020 Ed.

   (4) The Authority may —

   (a) in relation to any provision in this Act, appoint any of its
        officers or employees to be an enforcement officer for the
        purposes of that provision, either generally or in a
        particular case; and

   (b) delegate to any enforcement officer the exercise of all or
        any of the powers conferred or duties imposed upon the
        Authority by any provision in this Act (except the power of
        delegation conferred by this subsection), subject to such
        conditions or limitations as the Authority may specify; and
        any reference in that provision to the Authority includes a
        reference to such an enforcement officer.

                                                                                         [24/2018; 8/2020]

          PART 2
   PARKING PLACES

                            [24/2018]

Authority may provide parking places

 4.—(1) Where it appears to the Authority to be necessary to provide
suitable parking places for vehicles, the Authority may provide such
parking places in accordance with the provisions of this Act and such
general or specific directions as the Minister may give, and for that
purpose may —

       (a) utilise any land or premises which may lawfully be
            acquired or appropriated;

       (b) utilise any land or premises owned or occupied by any
            statutory body upon such terms and conditions as may be
            agreed upon between the Minister and the statutory body;
            or

       (c) permit any part of a road to be used as a parking place.

 (2) The Authority must not permit any part of a road to be used as a
parking place under subsection (1)(c) if —
2020 Ed.  Parking Places Act 1974  7

(a) the parking place is for the parking of personal mobility
     devices; or

       (b) the use of such part of the road as a parking place will
            unreasonably prevent access to any premises adjoining the
            road or to the use of the road by any person entitled to the
            use of the road, or will cause a nuisance to any person.

                                                                                                             [3/2017]

 (3) The certificate of the Superintendent stating to the effect that
any parking place named or described in the certificate is a parking
place within the meaning of this Act is prima facie evidence for the
purpose of any prosecution under this Act.

Use of property as private parking place

 5.—(1) A person must not maintain or operate any private parking
place for the parking or housing of one or more heavy vehicles unless
the person is a holder of a valid licence.

 (2) The Authority may, by order in the Gazette —

       (a) permit the use as a private parking place of any land or
            premises with respect to which an agreement has been
            made between the Superintendent and the owner or the
            occupier thereof for the use of the land or premises as a
            private parking place; and

       (b) prescribe the manner in which a licensee must maintain or
            operate a licensed private parking place.

 (3) The Superintendent or any person authorised by the
Superintendent may manage and superintend any private parking
place referred to in subsection (2)(a).

Power to require maintenance, etc., of parking place

 5A.—(1) Where, in the opinion of the Superintendent, any private
parking place for the parking of bicycles, power-assisted bicycles or
personal mobility devices on any land or premises —

       (a) has not been kept or maintained in a state of good and
            serviceable repair or in a proper and clean condition;

                                   31.12.2021
8  Parking Places Act 1974  2020 Ed.

   (b) has been discontinued without the permission of the
        Superintendent; or

   (c) has been altered (whether by repair or otherwise) so as to
       render the parking place to be non-compliant with any
       rules made under section 22,

the Superintendent may, by notice, require the owner or the occupier
of the land or premises to carry out such repairs, work or alteration to
the parking place, or to reinstate the parking place (as the case may
be) as the Superintendent thinks fit to be carried out.

                                                                                                   [3/2017; 8/2020]

 (2) A notice under subsection (1) must specify —

   (a) the manner in which the repairs, work, alteration or
        reinstatement specified in the notice is to be carried out;

   (b) the time within which the repairs, work, alteration or
        reinstatement must be completed; and

       (c) that the repairs, work, alteration or reinstatement must be
            carried out with due diligence to the satisfaction of the
            Superintendent.

                                                                                                             [3/2017]

 (3) If a notice under subsection (1) is not complied with to his or her
satisfaction, the Superintendent may —

   (a) carry out or cause to be carried out all or any of the repairs,
        work, alteration or reinstatement specified in that notice;
        and

   (b) recover all expenses reasonably incurred by the
        Superintendent in the exercise of the Superintendent’s
        powers under this section from the person in default.

                                                                                                     [3/2017]
2020 Ed.  Parking Places Act 1974  9

 (4) Without affecting the right of the Superintendent to exercise the
powers under subsection (3), if any person on whom a notice under
subsection (1) is served, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with the requirements of that notice, that person shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $500 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                             [3/2017]

Adaptation of land for use as parking place

 6. The Authority may take such steps as may be necessary to adapt
for use as a parking place any land not being part of a road which it
may utilise for that purpose under this Act.

Layout, etc., of parking lots in private parking places

 6A.—(1) The owner or occupier of —

       (a) any land or premises on which any private parking place is,
            on or after 8 May 2018, provided; or

       (b) any land or premises on which any development (within
            the meaning of the Planning Act 1998) is or is to be carried
            out and in respect of which —

               (i) written permission is granted on or after 8 May 2018;
                   or

              (ii) an application for approval of a proposal or plan for
                   the provision of parking lots is pending on that date,

must provide and maintain the private parking place provided or to be
provided on the land or premises only in accordance with the
applicable requirements for parking places.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (2) In subsection (1), “applicable requirement for parking places”,
for any land or premises mentioned in that subsection, means any of
the requirements as to layout, arrangement, dimensions, area and
number of parking lots, or to the design of parking facilities for a
private parking place on the land or premises, which —

                                   31.12.2021
10  Parking Places Act 1974  2020 Ed.

    (a) are specified in the proposal or plan for the provision of
         parking lots in the private parking place last approved (or
         deemed approved) by the Authority; or

       (b) are specified in the last waiver granted (or deemed granted)
            under section 6B in relation to the private parking place.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (3) The Authority may, in respect of a proposal or plan for the
provision of parking lots in a private parking place, approve the
proposal or plan in accordance with rules made (or deemed made)
under section 22 or, subject to those rules, after having regard to, and
giving such weight as the Authority considers appropriate to, all of
the following matters:

    (a) the proximity and accessibility of the land or premises to
         other forms of public passenger transport facilities;

    (b) the availability of other parking places in the vicinity of the
         land or premises;

    (c) traffic flow around the land or premises and the road
        capacity;

    (d) access to roads, public streets, private footways and public
         paths;

       (e) such other matters and evidence as may be relevant.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (4) The Authority may, by an infringement notice, require the
owner or occupier of the land or premises mentioned in subsection (1)
to carry out such works to the land or premises or any part of it, and to
take such other measures specified in the notice, as the Authority
thinks fit to rectify any contravention of that subsection.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (5) A person who contravenes or fails to comply with an
infringement notice under subsection (4) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$30,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine of
$500 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]
2020 Ed.  Parking Places Act 1974  11

 (6) In this section, a reference to a proposal or plan for the provision
of parking lots in a private parking place includes a reference to a
proposal or plan to change —

(a) the number of parking lots in the private parking place;

(b) the layout, arrangement, dimensions or area of any parking
     lot in the private parking place; or

          (c) the design of parking facilities in that private parking
              place,

and change includes the making of a material change in the use as a
parking lot.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

Deficiency charge

 6B.—(1) The owner or occupier of any land or premises which is
the subject of a development mentioned in section 6A(1)(b) may
provide parking lots in a private parking place or proposed private
parking place on the land or premises otherwise than in accordance
with the requirements in rules made (or deemed made) under
section 22 if —

       (a) the Authority waives the requirement in those rules
            because, in the opinion of the Authority, it would be
            unduly onerous or unreasonable for the owner or occupier
            to comply with that requirement; and

       (b) where the waiver affects the applicable number of parking
            lots, the owner or occupier pays to the Authority a
            deficiency charge.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (2) In determining whether to grant a waiver in relation to any
private parking place or proposed private parking place on any land or
premises, the Authority must have regard to, and give such weight as
the Authority considers appropriate to, all of the following matters:

       (a) the proximity and accessibility of the land or premises to
            other forms of public passenger transport facilities;

       (b) the availability of other parking places in the vicinity of the
            land or premises;

                                   31.12.2021
12  Parking Places Act 1974  2020 Ed.

    (c) traffic flow around the land or premises and the road
        capacity;

    (d) access to roads, public streets, private footways and public
         paths;

    (e) the physical topography and location of the land or
        premises;

    (f) other regulatory requirements which the owner of the land
        or premises must also comply with in relation to the private
        parking place;

    (g) the safety of pedestrians, drivers, riders and other road and
         public path users;

       (h) such other matters and evidence as may be relevant.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (3) The deficiency charge is an amount calculated in the manner
prescribed, and must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (4) Despite anything in this section, no deficiency charge is payable
in respect of a private parking place or class of private parking places
which, or any person who, is exempt from section 6A because of an
exemption under section 21.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (5) In subsection (1), “applicable number of parking lots”, for any
land or premises which is the subject of a development mentioned in
section 6A(1)(b), means the requirement relating to the number of
parking lots which is prescribed in rules made (or deemed made)
under section 22.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

Authority not liable for loss or damage

 7. The exercise by the Authority or the Superintendent of their
respective powers under this Act with respect to the use as a parking
place or otherwise of any part of a road or any other place does not
render the Government, the Authority or the Superintendent subject
to any liability in respect of —
2020 Ed.  Parking Places Act 1974                           13

(a) any loss or damage to any vehicle or the fittings or contents
     of any vehicle parked in such parking place or otherwise;
     or

(b) any injury or death suffered by any person in such parking
     place or otherwise.

                                   PART 3
8. to 8T. [Repealed by Act 8 of 2020]

          PART 4

          PARKING CHARGES

Parking charges for parking place provided under section 4

9.—(1) The Superintendent may at any time —

(a) fix the parking charge for parking of a vehicle in any
     parking place provided under section 4;

(b) change any parking charge fixed under paragraph (a) in
     accordance with this section;

          (c) waive in any particular case the payment of the whole or
              part of any parking charge; and

      (d) refund the whole or part of any parking charge paid in error
           or overpaid.

                                                                                                         [24/2018]

(2) The Superintendent may fix different parking charges —

(a) for different parking places;

(b) for different types of vehicles;

          (c) for parking at different times; and

(d) for different payment methods.

                                                   [24/2018]

 (3) Where a parking charge is fixed or changed by the
Superintendent under subsection (1), the Superintendent must —

                                                   31.12.2021
14  Parking Places Act 1974                               2020 Ed.

    (a) give public notice of the fixing or change (as the case may
         be) of the parking charge;

    (b) specify in the public notice mentioned in paragraph (a) the
         parking charge or changed parking charge (as the case may
         be) and the parking place, vehicle or time (as the case may
         be) to which it applies, and the date which the parking
         charge or the changed parking charge takes effect; and

    (c) except for season parking charges, ensure that, so long as
        the parking charge or changed parking charge is in effect,
        the parking charge or changed parking charge (as the case
        may be), and the following information (where applicable),
        are displayed on one or more traffic signs erected at every
        entrance to the parking place, or in a conspicuous location
        within the parking place so that the traffic signs may be
        easily seen and read:

    (i) information indicating the period of time for which
        parking is permitted in that parking place;

    (ii) information indicating the times when a vehicle may
         be parked in accordance with the sign;

             (iii) information indicating that parking is reserved for
                   vehicles belonging to the class of vehicles referred to
                   in the sign.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (4) The public notice required by subsection (3)(a) must be given in
all or any of the following ways:

    (a) by causing it to be published in the daily newspapers
         circulating in Singapore in all the official languages;

    (b) by making accessible the information mentioned in
         subsection (3)(b) —

    (i) in the case of any parking place maintained or
        operated by a statutory body except the Authority, on
        the statutory body’s website; and

    (ii) in all other cases, on the Authority’s website;
2020 Ed.  Parking Places Act 1974        15

       (c) by causing it to be published in any other manner that the
            Superintendent considers will secure adequate publicity
            for the parking charge fixed or changed.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (5) No parking charge and no change to any parking charge has any
effect until the notice relating to it is published in accordance with
subsection (4).

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (6) An instrument setting out any parking charge fixed or changed
under this section does not have legislative effect.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (7) In any proceedings relating to the recovery or non-payment of
any parking charge, a certificate purporting to be issued by the
Superintendent certifying the amount of the parking charge due and
payable by a person is prima facie evidence that the amount of
parking charge so stated is due and payable by the person so named in
the certificate as at the date of the certificate.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (8) In this section —

(a) a reference to a parking charge includes a reference to a
     season parking charge, and a surcharge which is payable if
     a parking charge is not paid within a specified time; and

(b) a reference to the Superintendent in relation to a parking
     place provided under section 4 maintained or operated by a
     statutory body includes a reference to a Deputy
     Superintendent or an Assistant Superintendent who is an
     officer employed by the statutory body.

                                                                                                 [24/2018]

Collection of parking charges

 9A. All charges paid in connection with the use of any parking
place maintained or operated by a statutory body under the provisions
of this Act must be paid to that statutory body unless —

(a) otherwise agreed between the Minister and that statutory
     body; or

(b) otherwise directed by the Minister.

                                         [24/2018]

                                         31.12.2021
16  Parking Places Act 1974         2020 Ed.

    PART 5

    ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

                                    [24/2018]

Plying for hire prohibited within parking place

 10.—(1) While any vehicle is within a parking place which has not
been appointed a public stand under section 109 of the Road Traffic
Act 1961, it is not lawful for the driver or conductor of the vehicle or
for any person employed in connection with the vehicle to ply for hire
or to accept passengers for hire.

 (2) Any person who acts in contravention of this section shall be
guilty of an offence.

Parking places to be indicated by traffic signs

 11.—(1) When the Authority permits any part of a road to be used
as a parking place, the Authority must cause the parking place to be
indicated by means of traffic signs.

 (2) In this section, “traffic signs” has the meaning given by
section 119 of the Road Traffic Act 1961.

Composition of offences

 12.—(1) The relevant officer may compound any offence under this
Act or any subsidiary legislation made under this Act that is
prescribed as being an offence that may be compounded by doing one
or both of the following:

       (a) by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
            committed the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of
            the following amounts:

               (i) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
                   prescribed for the offence;

              (ii) $5,000;

       (b) by requiring the person reasonably suspected of having
            committed the offence to do, or to refrain from doing, such
            things as are specified in an offer of composition (called
2020 Ed.  Parking Places Act 1974  17

            conditions of composition) by the relevant officer, with the
            concurrence (general or specific) of the Public Prosecutor.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (2) On payment of the sum of money or meeting the requirement in
subsection (1)(a) or (b) or both, no further proceedings are to be taken
against that person in respect of the offence.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (4) In this section, “relevant officer”, for an offence that is
prescribed as being an offence which may be compounded, means
the Superintendent where the offence is an offence under any other
provision of this Act or any other subsidiary legislation made under
this Act.

                                                                                                 [24/2018; 8/2020]

Duty to give information

 13.—(1) Where the driver or the conductor of a vehicle is alleged or
is suspected to be guilty of an offence under this Act or any rules
made under this Act —

       (a) the owner of the vehicle must furnish any information
            required by the Superintendent or an officer authorised by
            the Superintendent to act in that behalf as to the identity
            and address of the person who was the driver or conductor
            of that vehicle at or about the time of the alleged offence,
            and as to the driving licence held by that person (if
            necessary); and

       (b) any other person who was or should have been in charge of
            the vehicle must, if so required under paragraph (a), give
            any information which is in the person’s power to give, and
            which may lead to the identification of the driver.

                                                                                                             [3/2017]

 (2) Any owner of a vehicle or any other person who fails to furnish
the information required from him or her under subsection (1)(a) or
(b) (as the case may be) within 14 days after the date on which the
information was required from him or her shall be guilty of an offence

                                   31.12.2021
18  Parking Places Act 1974  2020 Ed.

unless he or she proves, to the satisfaction of the court, that he or she
did not know and could not with reasonable diligence have
ascertained the information required.

                                                                                                 [3/2017; 24/2018]

 (3) A person required under subsection (1) by the Superintendent or
an officer authorised by the Superintendent to act in that behalf to
give information commits an offence if —

    (a) the person —

    (i) provides, or causes or permits to be provided, any
        information in connection with the requirement,
        which is false or misleading in a material
        particular; and

    (ii) knows or ought reasonably to know that, or is
         reckless as to whether, the information is false or
         misleading in a material particular; or

    (b) the person intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any
         information which the person is required under
         subsection (1) to give, for the purpose of not leading to
         the identification of the driver,

and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [12/2021]

 (4) The Superintendent or any officer authorised by the
Superintendent to act in that behalf may require any information to
be furnished under subsection (1) to be in writing signed by the
person required to furnish the information.

 (5) Despite any other written law, any information given under this
section by any person charged with an offence under this Act or any
rules made under this Act or an offence in connection with the driving
of a vehicle may be used as evidence without proof of signature at the
hearing of the charge.

                                                                                                             [3/2017]
2020 Ed.  Parking Places Act 1974  19

 (6) Despite any other written law, any statement made by any
person to the Superintendent or any officer authorised by the
Superintendent under this section that a vehicle was on a particular
occasion being driven by or belonged to that person or that it
belonged to a firm in which that person also stated that that person
was a partner or to a corporation of which that person stated that that
person was a director, an officer or an employee is admissible in
evidence without proof of signature for the purpose of determining by
whom the vehicle was on that occasion being driven or who was in
charge of it or to whom it belonged.

                                                                                                             [3/2017]

Liability of owner of vehicles for parking offences

 14.—(1) When a parking offence is committed, the person who, at
the time of the commission of the offence, is the owner of the vehicle
in respect of which the offence is committed shall be guilty of an
offence under the rules made under this Act in all respects as if the
person were the actual offender guilty of the parking offence
unless —

       (a) the person satisfies the Superintendent that the vehicle was
            at the relevant time a stolen vehicle or a vehicle illegally
            taken or used; or

       (b) the court is satisfied that the vehicle was at the relevant
            time a stolen vehicle or a vehicle illegally taken or used.

 (2) Nothing in this section shall affect the liability of the actual
offender except that where a penalty has been imposed on or
recovered from a person in relation to any parking offence, no further
penalty shall be imposed on or recovered from any other person in
relation to that offence.

 (3) Despite subsection (1), no owner of a vehicle shall, by virtue of
this section, be guilty of an offence if the owner —

       (a) within 14 days after service on the owner of a notice
            alleging that the owner has been guilty of the offence,
            furnishes by statutory declaration to the Superintendent the
            name and address of the person who was in charge of the

                                   31.12.2021
20  Parking Places Act 1974                           2020 Ed.

    vehicle at all relevant times relating to the parking offence
    concerned;

    (b) satisfies the Superintendent that the owner did not know
         and could not with reasonable diligence have ascertained
         such name and address; or

       (c) satisfies the court that the owner did not know and could
            not with reasonable diligence have ascertained such name
            and address.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (4) A statutory declaration made under subsection (3)(a) if
produced in any proceedings against the person named in the
statutory declaration and in respect of the parking offence concerned
is prima facie evidence that the person was in charge of the vehicle at
all relevant times relating to the parking offence.

 (5) A statutory declaration which relates to more than one parking
offence must not be regarded as a statutory declaration under, or for
the purposes of, subsection (3)(a).

 (6) In this section —

    “owner”, in relation to a motor vehicle, means —

    (a) for a motor vehicle which is registered under the
         Road Traffic Act 1961 —

    (i) each person in whose name the vehicle is
        registered under the Road Traffic Act 1961
        unless the person has sold or ceased to have
        possession of the vehicle and has complied
        with the provisions of the rules applicable in
        regard to the sale or disposal;

    (ii) each person, although not a registered owner of
         the vehicle, who is a sole or joint owner of the
         vehicle unless that person has sold or ceased to
         have possession of that vehicle; or

    (iii) if any such registered owner has sold or ceased
          to have possession of the vehicle, any person
          who solely or jointly or in common with any
2020 Ed.  Parking Places Act 1974  21

          other person is entitled to the immediate
          possession of the vehicle;

          (b) for a motor vehicle that is unregistered, the person
               who solely or jointly or in common with any other
               person is entitled to the immediate possession of the
               vehicle;

          (c) for a motor vehicle in respect of which a general
              licence is issued under section 28 of the Road Traffic
              Act 1961, the person to whom the general licence is
              issued; or

          (d) for a motor vehicle which is the subject of a hiring
               agreement or hire-purchase agreement, the person in
               possession or entitled to possession of the vehicle
               under that agreement;

“parking offence” means an offence of parking a vehicle or
   causing or permitting a vehicle to stand, wait or be parked in
   contravention of any rules made under this Act.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (7) For the purposes of the definition of “owner” in subsection (6), a
person is taken not to have ceased to have possession or (as the case
may be) not to have acquired possession of a vehicle where a change
of possession occurs by way of —

(a) any hiring (not being a hiring under a hire-purchase
     agreement) or lending of the vehicle; or

(b) the passing of the possession of the vehicle to a bailee for
     the purpose of sale or disposal or for the purpose of
     alteration, repair, renovation, storing or other like purpose
     involving the use or operation of the vehicle for the benefit
     of the bailee.

                                                                                                 [24/2018]

                                   31.12.2021
22  Parking Places Act 1974                     2020 Ed.

Removal and detention, etc., of abandoned or illegally parked
vehicles

 15.—(1) Where a vehicle —

    (a) has been permitted to remain at rest in a parking place in
         such a position or in such condition or circumstances as to
         appear to the Superintendent or an authorised officer to
         have been abandoned without lawful authority;

    (b) is parked in a parking place in contravention of any
         provision of this Act or any rules made under this Act; or

    (c) being owned by a person against whom a warrant of arrest
        is in force, is parked in a parking place,

the Superintendent or authorised officer may —

    (d) remove the vehicle to a place of safety or any other place
         and detain it at the place of safety or any other place; or

       (e) prevent the removal of the vehicle from the parking place
            without his or her consent by fixing an immobilisation
            device to the vehicle.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (2) Where a vehicle (within the meaning given by the Shared
Mobility Enterprises (Control and Licensing) Act 2020) has been
permitted to remain at rest in a public place (also within the meaning
given by that Act) —

    (a) in such a position or in such condition or circumstances as
         to appear to the Authority or an enforcement officer or
         outsourced enforcement officer to have been abandoned;

    (b) is evidence of the commission of an offence under
         section 8C or any regulations made under section 8S (as
         in force before 22 July 2020) or section 8(1), 9(1) or 28(3)
         of the Shared Mobility Enterprises (Control and Licensing)
         Act 2020 or any regulations made under that Act; or
2020 Ed.  Parking Places Act 1974  23

          (c) is parked in contravention of any provision of this Act or
              any subsidiary legislation made under this Act, or any
              other written law,

an enforcement officer or outsourced enforcement officer may
remove the vehicle to a place of safety or any other place and
detain it at the place of safety or any other place.

                                                                                     [24/2018; 38/2018; 8/2020]

 (3) Where the Superintendent or an authorised officer, enforcement
officer or outsourced enforcement officer has removed any vehicle to
a place of safety or any other place under subsection (1)(d) or (2) or
fixed an immobilisation device to the vehicle under subsection (1)(e),
the Superintendent, authorised officer, enforcement officer or
outsourced enforcement officer (as the case may be) must, with all
reasonable despatch, give written notice to the owner of the vehicle
(if known) as to the procedure by which the owner may secure the
release of the vehicle, and the notice must be served on the owner of
the vehicle —

(a) in the case where the Superintendent or an authorised
     officer, enforcement officer or outsourced enforcement
     officer has removed the vehicle to a place of safety or any
     other place, in accordance with section 18; or

       (b) in the case where the Superintendent or authorised officer
            has fixed an immobilisation device to the vehicle, by
            affixing the notice onto the windscreen or any other
            conspicuous part of the vehicle.

                                                                                                [24/2018; 38/2018]

 (4) A vehicle which has been removed and detained or to which an
immobilisation device has been fixed in accordance with this section
must not be released to the owner of the vehicle except —

(a) by or under the direction of the Superintendent or an
     authorised officer or enforcement officer; and

                                   31.12.2021
24  Parking Places Act 1974     2020 Ed.

    (b) upon the owner of the vehicle having paid all expenses
         incurred by the Superintendent or the authorised officer,
         enforcement officer or outsourced enforcement officer,
         and any other charges that may be imposed under this Act
         or any rules made under this Act,

and the vehicle shall remain at the risk of the owner of the vehicle
until all the expenses and charges mentioned in paragraph (b) have
been paid.

                                                                                                [24/2018; 38/2018]

 (5) Where, under subsection (1)(c), the Superintendent or an
authorised officer has removed a vehicle to a place of safety or any
other place or fixed an immobilisation device to a vehicle, the
Superintendent or authorised officer may refuse to release the vehicle
unless the Superintendent or authorised officer is satisfied that the
owner of the vehicle has been arrested or has surrendered himself or
herself to a police officer or the warrant of arrest in force against the
owner has been cancelled by a court.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (6) Any person who, without the authority of the Superintendent or
an authorised officer, removes or tampers with any notice affixed to a
vehicle under subsection (3)(b) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (7) Any person who, without being authorised to do so in
accordance with this section, removes or attempts to remove —

    (a) any vehicle from any place at which it is being detained
         under this section; or

    (b) an immobilisation device fixed to a vehicle in accordance
         with this section,

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                [34/93]

 (8) Subject to this section, every vehicle that is removed to a place
of safety or any other place under subsection (2)(a) or (b) is liable to
forfeiture under this section.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (9) An order for the forfeiture under this section may be made by
the Authority if it is satisfied —
2020 Ed.  Parking Places Act 1974                    25

(a) for a vehicle which is removed to a place of safety or any
     other place under subsection (2)(a), that at the end of
     30 days after the date of the removal, no claim to the
     vehicle is made in the prescribed manner to the Authority
     before the end of that period and there is no prosecution
     with regard to any offence involving that vehicle; and

(b) for a vehicle which is removed to a place of safety or any
     other place under subsection (2)(b), that the vehicle was
     the subject matter, or was used in the commission, of an
     offence under section 8C or any regulations made under
     section 8S (as in force before 22 July 2020) or section 8(1),
     9(1) or 28(3) of the Shared Mobility Enterprises (Control
     and Licensing) Act 2020 or any regulations made under
     that Act, and —

          (i) a person is convicted of the offence;

          (ii) a person who is reasonably suspected of having
               committed the offence has that offence compounded
               under section 12 of this Act or section 37 of the
               Shared Mobility Enterprises (Control and Licensing)
               Act 2020, as the case may be; or

             (iii) at the end of 30 days after the date of the removal, no
                   claim to the vehicle is made in the prescribed manner
                   to the Authority before the end of that period and
                   there is no prosecution with regard to that offence.

                                                                                                 [38/2018; 8/2020]

 (10) Upon receipt of a claim mentioned in subsection (9)(a) or
(b)(iii), the Authority may direct that the vehicle be released or may
refer the matter by information to a Magistrate.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

                                                     31.12.2021
26  Parking Places Act 1974  2020 Ed.

 (11) The Magistrate must, on receipt of any information under
subsection (10), or on the written application of the Public Prosecutor,
hold an inquiry and proceed to determine the matter and must, on
proof that the vehicle was used in the commission of an offence under
section 8C or any regulations made under section 8S (as in force
before 22 July 2020) or section 8(1), 9(1) or 28(3) of the Shared
Mobility Enterprises (Control and Licensing) Act 2020 or any
regulations made under that Act, order the vehicle to be forfeited, or
may in the absence of such proof order its release.

                                                                                                 [38/2018; 8/2020]

 (12) In any proceedings under subsection (11), the burden of proof
lies on the person asserting that the person is the owner of the vehicle
concerned, and on the person from whom the vehicle was seized, as
the case may be.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (13) In any proceedings in any court in respect of the forfeiture of
any vehicle removed in exercise or the purported exercise of any
power conferred under subsection (2)(a) or (b), no person is entitled
to the costs of those proceedings or to any damages or other relief
except an order for the return of the vehicle, unless the removal was
made without reasonable or probable cause.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (14) Where any vehicle which has been removed and detained or to
which an immobilisation device has been fixed in accordance with
this section is not earlier forfeited under this section and is not
claimed by its owner within one month of the date of its detention or
immobilisation, the Superintendent or an authorised officer or
enforcement officer may, after giving one month’s notice in the
Gazette of his or her intention to do so, sell the vehicle by public
auction or otherwise dispose of the vehicle in any manner as he or she
thinks fit.

                                                                                                [24/2018; 38/2018]
2020 Ed.  Parking Places Act 1974                            27

 (15) Where a vehicle has been sold or otherwise disposed of under
subsection (14), the proceeds of the sale or disposal of the vehicle are
to be applied in payment of any expenses incurred in carrying out the
provisions of this section and thereafter are to be applied in payment
of all charges and fines payable under this Act and any rules made
under this Act and the surplus (if any) must be paid to the owner of the
vehicle, or if not claimed by the owner of the vehicle within
12 months of the date of the sale or disposal, must be forfeited to the
Authority.

 (16) The Superintendent may waive, in whole or in part, any
expense or charge payable under subsection (4).

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (17) In this section —

      “authorised officer” means an officer of a statutory body
         authorised by the Superintendent for the purpose of this
         section;

“immobilisation device” means any device or appliance
   designed or adapted to be fixed to any part of a vehicle for
   the purpose of preventing the vehicle from being driven or
   otherwise put in motion, being a device or an appliance of a
   type approved by the Superintendent for use for that purpose
   in accordance with this section;

“owner”, in relation to a vehicle, has the meaning given by
   section 14, and “owned” is to be construed accordingly;

“warrant of arrest” means a warrant of arrest issued by a court
   against a person in connection with any offence committed
   by the person under —

          (a) this Act or any rules made under this Act; or

          (b) the Road Traffic Act 1961 or any rules made under
               that Act.

                                                                                     [24/2018; 38/2018]

                                   31.12.2021
28  Parking Places Act 1974   2020 Ed.

Power to require information

 15A. The Authority or the Superintendent may require any owner
or occupier of a private parking place to furnish any information
relating to the private parking place that the Authority or the
Superintendent considers necessary or expedient for the performance
of the functions or duties of the Authority or the Superintendent under
this Act.

Power of entry

 15B.—(1) The Superintendent or any person authorised by the
Authority or the Superintendent (called in this section an authorised
person) may —

       (a) for the purpose of ascertaining whether there is or has been
            a contravention of any provision of this Act or any rules
            made under this Act; or

       (b) for any other purpose incidental to or in connection with
            the performance of the functions or duties of the Authority
            or the Superintendent under this Act,

enter any private parking place between the hours of 8 a.m. and 6 p.m.
to make any survey or inspection without being liable to any legal
proceedings or molestation on account of such entry or any thing
done in such private parking place.

 (2) A person must not, except with the consent of the owner or
occupier of a private parking place, enter the parking place by virtue
of the powers conferred by subsection (1) without at least 6 hours’
previous notice being given to the owner or occupier of the private
parking place, if any.

 (3) Despite subsection (1), where it is necessary or expedient to
make any survey or inspection outside the hours specified in
subsection (1), the Superintendent or any authorised person may
enter any private parking place by giving at least 6 hours’ previous
notice to the owner or occupier of the private parking place.

 (4) The Superintendent or an authorised person may do any of the
following, without involving any search of any property or
2020 Ed.  Parking Places Act 1974  29

individual, for the purposes of a survey or inspection under this
section:

(a) photograph or film, or make audio recordings or make
     sketches of, any part of the premises, or any vehicle or
     parts of a vehicle or other thing at the premises;

(b) require any person on those premises to produce or grant
     access to, without charge, any document or information
     reasonably required for any purpose in subsection (1),
     which are in the possession or under the control of that
     person;

          (c) inspect and make copies of or take extracts from any such
              document;

(d) take possession of such a document if, in the opinion of the
     Superintendent or authorised officer —

          (i) the inspection or copying of or extraction from the
              document cannot reasonably be performed without
              taking possession;

          (ii) the document may be interfered with or destroyed
               unless possession is taken; or

             (iii) the document may be required as evidence in any
                   proceedings instituted or commenced for any of the
                   purposes of, or in connection with, this Act.

                                                                                                             [3/2017]

 (5) The power to require a person to furnish any document or
information under subsection (4)(b) includes the power —

(a) to require the person, or any person who is or was an
     officer or employee of that person, to provide an
     explanation of the document or information;

(b) if the document or information is not furnished, to require
     the person to state, to the best of the person’s knowledge
     and belief, where it is; and

                                   31.12.2021
30  Parking Places Act 1974  2020 Ed.

    (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
        form, to require the information to be made available to the
        Superintendent or authorised officer in legible form.

                                                                                                      [3/2017]

False information in applications, etc.

 15C.—(1) If a person —

       (a) in relation to an application for any licence, permit,
            approval or certificate by the person or any other person
            under this Act or any subsidiary legislation made under this
            Act; or

       (b) in relation to any modification of a condition of any
            licence, permit, approval or certificate (whether or not
            procuring for the benefit of the person or any other person)
            under this Act or any subsidiary legislation made under this
            Act,

furnishes or causes to be furnished any document or information
which the person knows or ought reasonably to know that, or is
reckless as to whether, it is false or misleading in a material particular,
shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

Penalty

 16. Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or
any rules or orders made under this Act shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction, where no special penalty is
provided, to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 months or to both and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $500 for every day
or part of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.
2020 Ed.      Parking Places Act 1974                       31

Offences by corporations

 17.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act or
any of its subsidiary legislation, it is necessary to prove the state of
mind of a corporation in relation to a particular conduct, evidence
that —

(a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
     that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
     apparent authority; and

(b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

                                                          [24/2018]

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act or any
of its subsidiary legislation, a person —

(a) who is —

          (i) an officer of the corporation; or

      (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
            corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
            of the corporation in relation to the commission of
            the offence; and

(b) who —

          (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
              effect the commission of the offence;

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the corporation; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

                                                          31.12.2021
32  Parking Places Act 1974                           2020 Ed.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

    (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (6) In this section —

    “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
       meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
       Act 2005;

    “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
       partner, chief executive officer, manager, secretary or other
       similar officer of the corporation, and includes —

    (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

            (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
                 members, any of those members as if the member
                 were a director of the corporation;

    “state of mind” of a person includes —

    (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
         of the person; and

    (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
         or purpose.

                                                                                           [24/2018]
2020 Ed.  Parking Places Act 1974  33

 (7) This section does not apply to or in relation to an offence under
this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation committed by a
corporation before 1 May 2018.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 17A.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act or
any of its subsidiary legislation, it is necessary to prove the state of
mind of an unincorporated association or a partnership in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            the partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of
            his or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or the partnership and in
                   a position to influence the conduct of that
                   unincorporated association or that partnership in
                   relation to the commission of the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the

                                   31.12.2021
34  Parking Places Act 1974                           2020 Ed.

    commission of the offence by the unincorporated
    association or the partnership; or

    (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
          offence by the unincorporated association or the
          partnership (or an offence of the same type) would be
          or is being committed, and failed to take all
          reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission
          of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the unincorporated
association or the partnership, and shall be liable on conviction to
be punished accordingly.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or the
partnership if it were charged with the offence with which the
person is charged and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden
of proof as that unincorporated association or that partnership would
bear.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

    (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation, and applies whether or not
that unincorporated association or that partnership is convicted of the
offence.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (6) In this section —

    “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
       a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
       member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
       and includes —
2020 Ed.  Parking Places Act 1974       35

          (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
               president, secretary or member of a committee of the
               unincorporated association; and

        (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;
“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

“state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (7) This section does not apply to or in relation to an offence under
this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation committed by an
unincorporated association or a partnership before 1 May 2018.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

Service of summons, etc.

 18.—(1) Every summons, notice, order or document required or
authorised by this Act or any rules made under this Act to be served
on any person may be served —

       (a) by delivering it to the person or to some adult member or
            employee of the person’s family at the person’s usual or
            last known place of residence or business;

       (b) by leaving it at the usual or last known place of residence
            or business of the person in a cover addressed to the
            person;

       (c) by sending it by registered post in a prepaid letter
            addressed to the person at the person’s usual or last
            known place of residence or business or any address
            furnished by the person; or

       (d) in the case of a notice to be served on a person whose usual
            or last known place of residence or business cannot, with
            reasonable diligence, be ascertained, by publication of the
            notice in the Gazette.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

                                        31.12.2021
36  Parking Places Act 1974  2020 Ed.

 (2) In addition, any notice, order or document (other than a
summons) required or authorised by this Act or any rules made under
this Act to be served on an individual, a partnership, a body corporate
or an unincorporated association may be served —

    (a) by sending it by email to the email address of the
         individual, partnership, body corporate or unincorporated
         association, as the case may be;

    (b) by sending it by fax to whichever of the following is
         applicable:

     (i) the fax number last known as the fax number for the
          service of notices, orders or documents on the
          individual;

    (ii) the fax number used at the partnership’s business
          address;

    (iii) the fax number used at the body corporate’s or
          unincorporated association’s registered office or
          principal office in Singapore;

    (c) by giving an electronic notice to the individual,
        partnership, body corporate or unincorporated
        association (called in this section an addressee) by the
        addressee’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
        notice, order or document is available and how the
        addressee may use the addressee’s chosen means of
        access to access the contents of that notice, order or
        document; or

       (d) by any other method authorised by the rules made under
            section 22 for the service of notices, orders or documents
            of that kind if the recipient consents (expressly or
            impliedly) to service of a notice, order or document of
            that kind in that way.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (3) Where any summons, notice, order or document is served on
any person by registered post, it is deemed to have been served within
such time as it would take to arrive in the ordinary course of
transmission and, in proving service of the same, it is sufficient to
2020 Ed.  Parking Places Act 1974  37

prove that the envelope containing the summons, notice, order or
document was properly addressed, stamped and posted by registered
post.

 (4) However, service of any notice, order or document under this
Act or any rules made under section 22 on a person by email or by an
electronic notice at the person’s chosen means of notification may be
effected only with the person’s prior consent (express or implied) to
service in that way.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (5) Service of any notice, order or document under
subsection (2)(a) or (b) takes effect —

(a) if the notice, order or document is sent by email, at the time
     that the email becomes capable of being retrieved by the
     person; or

       (b) if the notice, order or document is sent by fax and a
            notification of successful transmission is received, on the
            day of transmission.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (6) All notices, orders, receipts and other documents which the
Superintendent is empowered to give by this Act or any rules made
under this Act may be given by any officer duly authorised by the
Superintendent.

 (7) Where any such notice, order or document requires
authentication, the signature or a facsimile of the signature of the
Superintendent or any officer duly authorised by the Superintendent
affixed to the notice, order or document is sufficient authentication.

(8) In this section —

“business address” or “place of business” means —

        (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
             last known place of business in Singapore; or

          (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
               liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
               last known place of business in Singapore;

                                   31.12.2021
38  Parking Places Act 1974  2020 Ed.

    “chosen means of access”, for an addressee on whom is or is to
       be served any notice, order or document required or
       authorised by this Act or rules made under section 22,
       means an electronic means the addressee agrees with the
       person giving or serving the notice, order or document as the
       means by which the addressee may access the contents of that
       notice, order or document;

    “chosen means of notification”, for an addressee on whom is or
       is to be served any notice, order or document required or
       authorised by this Act or rules made under section 22, means
       an electronic means that the addressee nominates to the
       person giving or serving the notice, order or document as the
       means by which the addressee may be notified that such a
       notice, order or document has been served on the addressee;

    “email address” means the last email address given by the
       addressee concerned to the person giving or serving a notice,
       order or document as the email address for the service of
       notices, orders or documents under this Act or rules made
       under section 22.

                             [38/2018]

Obstruction of Authority, Superintendent, etc.

 19. Any person who obstructs or hinders the Authority, the
Superintendent, any enforcement officer, outsourced enforcement
officer or any person acting in the discharge of his or her duty under
this Act or any rules made under this Act shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

                                                                                     [24/2018; 38/2018; 8/2020]

Protection from personal liability

 20. No liability shall lie personally against the Superintendent of
Car Parks, any Deputy Superintendents and Assistant
Superintendents of Car Parks, an enforcement officer, an
outsourced enforcement officer, any person acting under the
direction of the Superintendent of Car Parks, a Deputy
Superintendent or Assistant Superintendent of Car Parks, or an
2020 Ed.  Parking Places Act 1974  39

authorised officer within the meaning given by section 15 for
anything which is done or purported to be done, or omitted to be done,
in good faith and with reasonable care in the execution or purported
execution of this Act and any rules made under this Act.

                                                                                     [24/2018; 38/2018; 8/2020]

Power to exempt

 21. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any private
parking place or class of private parking places or any person or class
of persons from the provisions of this Act or any rules made under
this Act.

                                                                                     [24/2018; 38/2018; 8/2020]

Rules

 22.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make rules necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out
or giving effect to this Act.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may, with the
approval of the Minister, make rules —

       (a) regulating the use of parking places and private parking
            places, including —

               (i) controlling the type or class of vehicles which may
                   park in different parking places or private parking
                   places;

              (ii) prohibiting or restricting the activities which may
                   take place in parking places and private parking
                   places; and

             (iii) prescribing the conditions upon and the times during
                   which parking of vehicles or other activities are
                   permitted to take place in parking places and private
                   parking places;

       (b) requiring private parking places to be provided for any land
            or building and its layout, including prescribing —

               (i) the layout, arrangement, dimensions or area of each
                   parking lot in the private parking place and the

                                   31.12.2021
40  Parking Places Act 1974  2020 Ed.

    design of parking facilities in the private parking
    place;

    (ii) the maximum or minimum dimensions or area of
         each parking lot in the private parking place;

    (iii) the maximum or minimum number or a number
          range, or a maximum rate of increase or decrease or a
          minimum rate of increase or decrease, in the number
          of parking lots for the private parking place;

    (iv) different layout, arrangement, dimensions or area of
         parking lots and different designs of parking
         facilities, in the private parking place for different
         types of vehicles which may park in the private
         parking place and in different circumstances or for
         different classes of land or premises; or

    (v) different maximum or minimum numbers or
         different number ranges, or different maximum
         rates of increase or decrease or different minimum
         rates of increase or decrease, in the number of
         parking lots for different types of vehicles, different
         circumstances or different classes of land or
         premises;

    (c) regulating the operation of private parking places, garages
        and places kept or used for the housing or parking of
        vehicles, except garages or places used in connection with
        private dwelling houses for housing or parking vehicles
        kept for private use only;

    (d) regulating the parking of heavy vehicles in any parking
         place, by the issue of vehicle parking certificates or such
         other documents entitling the holder to park a heavy
         vehicle in a parking lot in the parking place;

    (e) providing for the calculation of the deficiency charge
        mentioned in section 6B, including —

    (i) prescribing different rates and methods of
        calculation of the charge;
2020 Ed.  Parking Places Act 1974  41

          (ii) prescribing circumstances for the deferment of
               liability to pay the charge;

          (iii) prescribing the procedure to apply to the Authority to
                determine the amount of a deficiency charge; or

          (iv) providing for the remission or the refund, wholly or
               in part, of the charge payable or paid by any person;
               and

        (f) prescribing the fees to be paid for the Superintendent or
            Authority for doing anything under this Act or the rules.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

 (3) All rules made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

                                                                                                           [24/2018]

                                   31.12.2021
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                     PARKING PLACES ACT 1974

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                 PART 1
                     PARKING PLACES ACT
           (CHAPTER 90, 1970 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance 17 of 1963 — Parking Places Ordinance, 1963

Bill                  : 207/1963

First Reading         : 11 June 1963

Second and Third Readings : 24 July 1963

Commencement          : 1 September 1963

Note: This Ordinance repealed section 63 of the Road Traffic
        Ordinance, 1961 (Ordinance 26 of 1961).

2. Act 60 of 1970 — Parking Places (Amendment) Act, 1970

Bill                  : 49/1970

First Reading         : 4 November 1970

Second Reading        : 30 December 1970

Notice of Amendments  : 30 December 1970

Third Reading         : 30 December 1970

Commencement          : 1 March 1971

3. 1970 Revised Edition — Parking Places Act (Chapter 90)

Operation             : 1 April 1971

                                                           31.12.2021
                      ii

                                          PART 2
                            PARKING PLACES ACT 1974

                              (2020 REVISED EDITION)

4. Act 5 of 1974 — Parking Places Act, 1974

Bill                  : 10/1974

First Reading         : 14 March 1974

Second Reading        : 27 March 1974

Notice of Amendments  : 27 March 1974

Third Reading         : 27 March 1974

Commencement          : 3 May 1974

5. Act 10 of 1982 — Parking Places (Amendment) Act, 1982

Bill                  : 34/1981

First Reading         : 22 December 1981

Second Reading        : 3 March 1982

Notice of Amendments  : 3 March 1982

Third Reading         : 3 March 1982

Commencement          : 1 August 1982

6. 1985 Revised Edition — Parking Places Act (Chapter 214)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

7. Act 6 of 1991 — Parking Places (Amendment) Act 1991

Bill                  : 35/1990

First Reading         : 20 December 1990

Second and Third Readings : 3 January 1991

Commencement          : 1 April 1991

8. 1992 Revised Edition — Parking Places Act (Chapter 214)

Operation             : 9 March 1992

9. Act 34 of 1993 — Parking Places (Amendment) Act 1993

Bill                  : 28/1993

First Reading         : 30 August 1993

Second and Third Readings : 12 October 1993

Commencement          : 1 January 1994
               iii

10. Act 28 of 1995 — Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995
     (Amendments made by section 45 read with item 1 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill           : 24/1995

First Reading  : 7 July 1995

Second and Third Readings : 7 August 1995

Commencement   : 1 September 1995 (section 45 read
                     with item 1 of the Sixth Schedule)

11. 1996 Revised Edition — Parking Places Act (Chapter 214)

Operation      : 27 December 1996

12. Act 7 of 1997 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1997
     (Amendments made by section 8 read with item (2) of the Third Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill           : 6/1997

First Reading  : 11 July 1997

Second and Third Readings : 25 August 1997

Commencement   : 1 October 1997 (section 8 read with
                     item (2) of the Third Schedule)

13. Act 44 of 1999 — Parking Places (Amendment) Act 1999

Bill           : 37/1999

First Reading  : 11 October 1999

Second and Third Readings : 24 November 1999

Commencement   : 21 December 1999

14. Act 9 of 2005 — Parking Places (Amendment) Act 2005

Bill           : 66/2004

First Reading  : 24 November 2004

Second and Third Readings : 25 January 2005

Commencement   : 1 April 2005

15. 2014 Revised Edition — Parking Places Act (Chapter 214)

Operation      : 28 February 2014
                      iv

16. Act 3 of 2017 — Active Mobility Act 2017
     (Amendments made by section 69 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 40/2016

First Reading         : 9 November 2016

Second Reading        : 10 January 2017

Notice of Amendments  : 10 January 2017

Third Reading         : 10 January 2017

Commencement          : 30 April 2018 (section 69(1), (2)
                            and (4))

17. Act 24 of 2018 — Parking Places (Amendment) Act 2018

Bill                  : 18/2018

First Reading         : 5 March 2018

Second Reading        : 20 March 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 20 March 2018

Third Reading         : 20 March 2018

Commencement          : 1 May 2018 (except sections 2, 3(b), 4,
                            5, 6, 11(c), (e) and (k), 14, 17, 19(a),
                            (b) and (c) and 23(1), (2), (3), (4) and
                            (6))
                            8 May 2018 (sections 2, 3(b), 4, 5, 6,
                            11(c), (e) and (k), 14, 17, 19(a), (b)
                            and (c) and 23(1), (2), (3), (4) and (6))

18. Act 38 of 2018 — Land Transport (Enforcement Measures) Act 2018
     (Amendments made by Part 4 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 29/2018

First Reading         : 6 August 2018

Second and Third Readings : 10 September 2018

Commencement          : 8 July 2018 (section 47)
                            2 January 2019 (sections 41, 43, 45
                            and 46)
                            3 June 2019 (sections 42 and 44)

19. Act 8 of 2020 — Shared Mobility Enterprises (Control and Licensing)
                           Act 2020

     (Amendments made by section 51 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 2/2020
                                     v

       First Reading                 : 6 January 2020

       Second and Third Readings : 4 February 2020

       Commencement                  : 22 July 2020 (section 51)

20. Act 12 of 2021 — Road Traffic (Amendment) Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 30 of the above Act)

       Bill                          : 8/2021

       First Reading                 : 5 April 2021

       Second and Third Readings : 11 May 2021

       Commencement                  : 30 June 2021 (section 30)

                                  Abbreviations

C.P.                  Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.              Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S            Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.                  Legislative Assembly

L.N.                  Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

                      Legislation)

M. Act                Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.                 Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.          Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
            COMPARATIVE TABLE
         PARKING PLACES ACT 1974

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.                    2014 Ed.
                   5—(4) [Deleted by Act 9 of 2005]
—                  15—(1A)
15—(2)
                      (2)
   (3)                (3)
   (4)                (3A)
   (5)                (4)
   (6)                (5)
   (7)                (5A)
   (8)                (5B)
   (9)                (5C)
   (10)               (5D)
   (11)               (5E)
   (12)               (5F)
   (13)               (6)
   (14)               (7)
   (15)               (8)
   (16)               (9)
   (17)            18—(1A)
18—(2)                (2)
   (3)                (2A)
   (4)                (2B)
   (5)                (3)
   (6)                (4)
   (7)                (5)
   (8)

                                  31.12.2021
