THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
              INTERNAL SECURITY ACT 1960

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                                                                  2020 Ed.

Internal Security Act 1960

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

                 GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO
                            INTERNAL SECURITY

               Chapter 1 — Prohibition of organisations and
                 associations of a political or quasi‑military
                          character and uniforms, etc.

3. Prohibition of uniforms of political or quasi-military
       organisations

4. Penalty
5. Prohibition of quasi-military organisations
6. Illegal drilling
7. Prohibition of uniforms, emblems, etc.

                  Chapter 2 — Powers of preventive detention

 8. Power to order detention
 8A. Interpretation
 8B. Law applicable to judicial review
 8C. [Repealed]
 8D. Commencement provision
 9. Duty to inform person detained of grounds of detention, etc.
10. Detention order may be suspended
11. Representations against detention order
12. Report of advisory board
13. Review
13A. Presidential concurrence
14. Power to summon witnesses

                                                      1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                                    2

Section   Member of advisory board deemed to be public servant
          Disclosure of information
   15.    Power to order removal
   16.    Power to order production of detained person
   17.    Saving in respect of prosecution of persons detained
   18.
   19.

                     Chapter 3 — Special powers relating to
                            subversive publications, etc.

20. Prohibition of printing, sale, etc., of documents and publications
21. Objections against orders under section 20
22. Printing, publishing, etc., in contravention of order under

         section 20
23. Possession of documents, etc., in contravention of order under

         section 20
24. Importation in contravention of order under section 20
25. Posting of placards, etc.
26. Dissemination of false reports
27. Possession of subversive documents
28. Powers of search and seizure of documents
29. Disposal of subversive documents, etc.

           Chapter 4 — Control of entertainments and exhibitions

30. Power to require information
31. Power to impose conditions
32. Promoter, etc., to be in attendance at entertainment or exhibition
33. Power to prohibit certain entertainments or exhibitions
34. Powers of entry and investigation
35. Search
36. Powers of seizure
37. Powers of closure
38. Liability of principal for acts of employee
39. Abetment and penalty

                        Chapter 5 — Other powers for the
                              prevention of subversion

40. Powers relating to appointments
41. Power to close schools or educational institutions
42. Control of admission to institutions of higher education
43. Powers in relation to pupils, etc., visiting Singapore

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
3        Internal Security Act 1960                                 2020 Ed.

         Chapter 6 — Miscellaneous

Section  Attempts to commit offences and assisting offenders
         Abetment and general penalty
   44.   Arrest
   45.   Enforcement of bonds
   46.
   47.

                                           PART 3
                      SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO

                                   SECURITY AREAS

                     Chapter 1 — Proclamation of security areas
   48. Proclamation of security areas

                   Chapter 2 — Powers relating to preservation of
                                       public security

   49. Danger area
   50. Controlled area
   51. Protected place
   52. Exclusion of persons
   53. Curfew
   54. Power to take possession of land or buildings
   55. Power to order destruction of certain unoccupied buildings
   56. Power to control roads, etc.
   57. Power to seize rice and other food

                   Chapter 3 — Offences relating to security areas

   58. Offences relating to firearms, ammunition and explosives
   59. Consorting with person carrying or having possession of

            firearms or explosives
   60. Supplies
   61. Failure to report offences or to give information
   62. Attempt to commit offences
   63. Assisting offenders
   64. Abetment and general penalty

                      Chapter 4 — Powers of police and others

   65. Arrest
   66. Powers of search
   67. Power to dispense with death inquiries

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                                      4

Section

   68. Medical officers of armed forces to be regarded as pathologist or
            medical practitioner under supervision of pathologist

                                Chapter 5 — General

69. Compensation
70. Application of section 94 of Penal Code 1871
71. Extension of right of private defence

                    Chapter 6 — Power to make regulations
72. Power to make regulations

                                        PART 4

                       MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

73. Seizability and bailability of offences
74. Power to detain suspected persons
75. Use of lethal weapons in effecting arrests
76. Admission of statements in evidence
77. Inspection of bankers’ books
78. Disposal of property
79. [Repealed]
80. Jurisdiction of District Court
81. Restriction on prosecution
82. Publicity of orders
83. Saving
84. Amendment, etc., of Schedules

         First Schedule — Laws against which suspected offenders
                                   may be forcibly arrested

         Second Schedule — Specified laws
         Third Schedule — Essential services

An Act to provide for the internal security of Singapore, preventive
  detention, the prevention of subversion, the suppression of
  organised violence against persons and property in specified
  areas of Singapore, and for matters incidental thereto.

                                                         [16 September 1963]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
5  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

  Whereas action has been taken by a substantial body of persons to
cause a substantial number of citizens to fear organised violence
against persons and property:

  And Whereas action has been taken and threatened by a substantial
body of persons which is prejudicial to the security of Malaya:

  And Whereas Parliament considers it necessary to stop or prevent
that action:

  Now therefore pursuant to Article 149 of the Constitution be it
enacted by the Duli Yang Maha Mulia Seri Paduka Baginda Yang
di‑Pertuan Agong with the advice and consent of the Dewan Negara
and Dewan Ra’ayat in Parliament assembled, and by the authority of
the same, as follows:

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Internal Security Act 1960.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “advisory board” means an advisory board constituted as
         mentioned in Article 151(2) of the Constitution;

      “ammunition” means ammunition for any firearm as hereafter
         defined and includes grenades, bombs and other like missiles
         whether capable of use with such a firearm or not and any
         ammunition containing or designed or adapted to contain any
         noxious liquid, gas or other thing;

      “Commissioner of Police” includes the Deputy Commissioner
         of Police and any gazetted police officer for the time being
         lawfully authorised to exercise the powers and perform the
         duties conferred or imposed upon the Commissioner of
         Police by this Act;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.       Internal Security Act 1960                          6

“controlled area” means any area declared to be a controlled area
   under section 50;

“danger area” means any area declared to be a danger area under
   section 49;

“document” includes any substance on which is recorded any
   matter, whether by letters, figures, marks, pictorial or other
   representation, or by more than one of these means;

“entertainment” means any game, sport, diversion, concert or
   amusement of any kind to which the public has or is intended
   to have access and in which members of the public may or
   may not take part, whether on payment or otherwise;

“exhibition” includes every display of goods, books, pictures,
   films or articles to which the public has or is intended to have
   access, whether on payment or otherwise;

“explosive” —

          (a) means gunpowder, nitroglycerine, dynamite
               gun‑cotton, blasting powder, fulminate of mercury
               or of other metals, coloured fires and every other
               substance, whether similar to those abovementioned
               or not, used or manufactured with a view to
               producing a practical effect by explosion or a
               pyrotechnic effect;

          (b) includes fog-signals, fireworks, fuses, rockets,
               percussion caps, detonators, cartridges, ammunition
               of all descriptions and every adaptation or
               preparation of an explosive as above defined;

          (c) includes an explosive within the meaning of the
               Guns, Explosives and Weapons Control Act 2021;
               and

                                                                      [Act 3 of 2021 wef 01/07/2025]

          (d) includes any material for making any explosive and
               any apparatus, machine, implement or material used
               or intended to be used or adapted for causing or
               aiding in causing any explosion in or with any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
7  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

   explosive, and any part of any such apparatus,
   machine or implement;

   “firearm” means any lethal barrelled weapon of any description
      from which any shot, bullet or other missile can be
      discharged or which can be adapted for the discharge of
      any such shot, bullet or other missile and any weapon of
      whatever description designed or adapted for the discharge of
      any noxious liquid, gas or other thing, and includes any
      component part of any such weapon as aforesaid;

   “Minister” means the Minister charged with the responsibility
      for internal security;

   “offence under this Act” includes an offence under any
      regulations made under section 72;

   “officer in charge of a division” means any police officer
      appointed as such and, when any officer so appointed is
      unable through absence, illness or otherwise to perform his
      duties, means the police officer designated, under the
      authority of the Commissioner of Police, to act for him;

   “periodical publication” includes every publication issued
      periodically or in parts or numbers at intervals, whether
      regular or irregular;

   “police officer” includes an auxiliary police officer and a special
      police officer appointed in accordance with any written law
      for the time being in force;

   “promoter”, in the case of an entertainment or exhibition
      promoted by a society, includes the secretary and officials of
      such society and, in the case of a society organised or having
      its headquarters outside Singapore, the officials in Singapore
      of such society;

   “proprietor” includes the owner, tenant or other person in
      possession or control of premises and any person who
      receives payment for the use of premises;

   “protected place” means any place or premises in relation to
      which an order made under section 51 is in force;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               8

“publication” includes all written, pictorial or printed matter,
   and everything of a nature similar to written or printed matter,
   whether or not containing any visible representation, or by its
   form, shape or in any other manner capable of suggesting
   words or ideas, and every copy, translation and reproduction
   or substantial translation or reproduction in part or in whole
   thereof;

“public place” includes any highway, public street, public road,
   public park or garden, any sea beach, waterway, public
   bridge, lane, footway, square, court, alley or passage, whether
   a thoroughfare or not, any unalienated land, any rubber
   estate, any plantation, any land alienated for agricultural or
   mining purposes, any theatre or place of public entertainment
   of any kind or other place of general resort admission to
   which is obtained by payment or to which the public has
   access, and any open space to which for the time being the
   public has or is permitted to have access, whether on payment
   or otherwise;

“public road” means any public highway or any road over which
   the public has a right of way or is granted access, and includes
   every road, street, bridge, passage, footway or square over
   which the public has a right of way or is granted access;

“security area” means any area in respect of which a
   proclamation under section 48 is for the time being in force;

“security forces” includes the Singapore Police Force, the
   Special Constabulary, the auxiliary police force, the
   Singapore Armed Forces, any local forces established
   under any written law in force in Singapore, and any force
   which is a visiting force for the purposes of Part 1 of the
   Visiting Forces Act 1960 and in respect of whom all or any of
   the powers exercisable by the Singapore Armed Forces or
   their members under this Act have been made exercisable by
   an order made under any such law;

“supplies” includes ammunition, explosives, firearms, money,
   food, drink, clothing, medicines, drugs or any other stores,
   instruments, commodities, articles or things whatsoever;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
9  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

   “terrorist” means any person who —

   (a) by the use of any firearm, explosive or ammunition
        acts in a manner prejudicial to the public safety or to
        the maintenance of public order or incites to violence
        or counsels disobedience to the law or to any lawful
        order;

   (b) carries or has in his possession or under his control
        any firearm, ammunition or explosive without lawful
        authority; or

   (c) demands, collects or receives any supplies for the use
       of any person who intends or is about to act, or has
       recently acted, in a manner prejudicial to public
       safety or the maintenance of public order.

                                    PART 2

              GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO
                          INTERNAL SECURITY

             Chapter 1 — Prohibition of organisations and
              associations of a political or quasi‑military
                        character and uniforms, etc.

Prohibition of uniforms of political or quasi-military
organisations

 3. The Minister may from time to time by order prohibit the
wearing in public places or at meetings or gatherings to which the
public or any section of the public has access, of —

       (a) any uniform or dress which signifies association with any
            political organisation or with the promotion of any political
            object; or

       (b) any uniform, dress or emblem by members or adherents of
            any organisation or association specified or described in
            the order, whether incorporated or not when, in the opinion
            of the Minister, members of that organisation or
            association are organised or trained or equipped for the
            purpose of enabling them to be employed —

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               10

          (i) in usurping the functions of the police or of the
              Singapore Armed Forces; or

          (ii) for the use or display of physical force in promoting
               any political or other object or in such a manner as to
               arouse reasonable apprehension that they are
               organised or trained or equipped for that purpose.

Penalty

 4. Every person who wears any prohibited uniform, dress or
emblem in contravention of an order made under section 3 shall be
guilty of an offence under this Part and shall be liable on conviction to
a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding one year or to both.

Prohibition of quasi-military organisations

 5.—(1) If the members or adherents of any association of persons,
whether incorporated or not, are —

       (a) organised or trained or equipped for the purpose of
            enabling them to be employed in usurping the functions
            of the police or of the Singapore Armed Forces; or

       (b) organised or trained or equipped either for the purpose of
            enabling them to be employed for the use or display of
            physical force in promoting any political or other object, or
            in such a manner as to arouse reasonable apprehension that
            they are organised or trained or equipped for that purpose,

then any member or adherent of such association shall be guilty of an
offence under this Part and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
one year or to both; and any person who promotes or conspires with
another to promote, or who takes part in the control or management
of, the association, or in so organising or training as aforesaid any
member or adherent thereof, shall be guilty of an offence under this
Part and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or to both:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
11  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

Provided that in any proceedings against any person charged with
the offence of taking part in the control or management of such an
association as aforesaid it shall be a defence to that charge to prove
that he neither consented to nor connived at the organisation,
training or equipment of any member or adherent of the association
in contravention of this section.

 (2) No prosecution for any offence under this section shall be
instituted except with the consent of the Public Prosecutor.

 (3) If upon application being made by or on behalf of the Public
Prosecutor it appears to the General Division of the High Court that
any association is an association of which members or adherents are
organised, trained or equipped in contravention of this section, the
General Division of the High Court may —

       (a) make such order as appears necessary to prevent any
            disposition without the permission of the General Division
            of the High Court of property held by or for the association;

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

       (b) direct an inquiry and report to be made as to any such
            property as aforesaid and as to the affairs of the
            association;

       (c) make such further order as appears to the General Division
            of the High Court to be just and equitable for the
            application of such property in or towards the discharge
            of the liabilities of the association lawfully incurred before
            the date of the application or, with the approval of the
            General Division of the High Court, since that date in or
            towards the repayment of moneys to persons who became
            subscribers or contributors to the association in good faith
            and without knowledge of any such contravention as
            aforesaid, and in or towards any costs incurred in
            connection with any such inquiry and report as aforesaid
            or in winding up or dissolving the association; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               12

       (d) order that any property which is not directed by the
            General Division of the High Court to be so applied as
            aforesaid shall be forfeited to the Government.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (4) In any criminal or civil proceedings under this section proof of
things done or of words written, spoken or published (whether or not
in the presence of any party to the proceedings) by any person taking
part in the control or management of an association or in organising,
training or equipping members or adherents of an association shall be
admissible as evidence of the purposes for which, or the manner in
which, members or adherents of the association were organised or
trained or equipped.

 (5) If a Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police is satisfied by
information that there is reasonable ground for suspecting that an
offence under this section has been committed, and that evidence of
the commission thereof is to be found at any premises or place
specified in the information, he may, on an application made by a
police officer not below the rank of sergeant, grant a search warrant
authorising any such officer with or without assistance to enter the
premises or place at any time within one month from the date of the
warrant, if necessary by force, and to search the premises or place and
every person found therein, and to seize anything found on the
premises or place or on any such person which the officer has
reasonable ground for suspecting to be evidence of the commission of
such an offence as aforesaid.

 (6) No woman shall, in pursuance of any warrant issued under
subsection (5), be searched except by a woman.

 (7) Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the
employment of a reasonable number of persons as stewards at any
public meeting held upon private premises with the permission of the
owner of those premises, or the making of arrangements for that
purpose or the instruction of the persons to be so employed in their
lawful duties as such stewards, or their being furnished with badges
or other distinguishing signs.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
13                Internal Security Act 1960                 2020 Ed.

Illegal drilling

 6.—(1) Any person other than a member of the Singapore Armed
Forces or the police or of a volunteer force or local force constituted
under any written law in force in Singapore, or of any other force
which is a visiting force for the purposes of Part 1 of the Visiting
Forces Act 1960 or of any organisation or association specially
exempted by the Minister, who —

    (a) is present at or attends any meeting or assembly of persons
         for the purpose of training or drilling themselves in the use
         of arms or of being so trained or drilled, or for the purpose
         of practising military exercises, movements or evolutions;
         or

    (b) is present at or attends any such meeting or assembly for
         the purpose of training or drilling any other person or
         persons in the use of arms or the practice of military
         exercises, movements or evolutions,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Part and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding one year or to both.

 (2) Any person, other than a member of the Singapore Armed
Forces or the police or of a volunteer force or local force constituted
under any written law in force in Singapore, or of any other force
lawfully present in Singapore under any law for the time being in
force relating to visiting forces or of any organisation or association
specially exempted by the Minister, who —

    (a) trains or drills any other person in the use of arms or the
         practice of military exercises, movements or evolutions; or

    (b) takes part in the control or management of any association
         or organisation whose members are trained or drilled in the
         practice of military exercises, movements or evolutions,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Part and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               14

Prohibition of uniforms, emblems, etc.

 7.—(1) The Minister may, if he considers it in the national interest
to do so, by order prohibit the manufacture, sale, use, wearing,
display or possession of any flag, banner, badge, emblem, device,
uniform or distinctive dress or any part thereof.

 (2) Any person contravening any provision of an order made under
this section shall be guilty of an offence under this Part.

 (3) Any article in respect of which an offence has been committed
under this section may be seized and destroyed or otherwise dealt
with as the Minister may direct, whether or not the identity of the
offender is known and whether or not any prosecution has been
commenced in respect of the offence.

              Chapter 2 — Powers of preventive detention

Power to order detention

 8.—(1) If the President is satisfied with respect to any person that,
with a view to preventing that person from acting in any manner
prejudicial to the security of Singapore or any part thereof or to the
maintenance of public order or essential services therein, it is
necessary to do so, the Minister shall make an order —

       (a) directing that such person be detained for any period not
            exceeding 2 years; or

       (b) for all or any of the following purposes:

               (i) for imposing upon that person such restrictions as
                   may be specified in the order in respect of his
                   activities and the places of his residence and
                   employment;

              (ii) for prohibiting him from being out of doors between
                   such hours as may be specified in the order, except
                   under the authority of a written permit granted by
                   such authority or person as may be so specified;

             (iii) for requiring him to notify his movements in such
                   manner at such times and to such authority or person
                   as may be specified in the order;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
15  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

    (iv) for prohibiting him from addressing public meetings
         or from holding office in, or taking part in the
         activities of or acting as adviser to any organisation
         or association, or from taking part in any political
         activities;

    (v) for prohibiting him from travelling beyond the limits
         of Singapore or any part thereof specified in the
         order except in accordance with permission given to
         him by such authority or person as may be specified
         in such order,

and any order made under paragraph (b) shall be for such period, not
exceeding 2 years, as may be specified therein, and may by such order
be required to be supported by a bond.

 (2) The President may direct that the period of any order made
under subsection (1) be extended for a further period or periods not
exceeding 2 years at a time.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), “essential services” means
any service, business, trade, undertaking, manufacture or calling
included in the Third Schedule.

 (4) Every person detained in pursuance of an order made under
subsection (1)(a) or of a direction given under subsection (2) shall be
detained in such place as the Minister may direct (hereinafter referred
to as a place of detention) and in accordance with instructions issued
by the Minister and any rules made under subsection (5).

 (5) The Minister may by rules provide for the maintenance and
management of any place of detention and for the discipline of
persons detained therein.

Interpretation

 8A. In this Part, “judicial review” includes proceedings instituted
by way of —

       (a) an application for a Mandatory Order, a Prohibiting Order
            or a Quashing Order;

       (b) an application for a declaration or an injunction;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               16

          (c) an Order for Review of Detention; and

(d) any other suit or action relating to or arising out of any
     decision made or act done in pursuance of any power
     conferred upon the President or the Minister by any
     provision of this Act.

                                                                                      [2/1989; 42/2005]

Law applicable to judicial review

 8B.—(1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), the law
governing the judicial review of any decision made or act done in
pursuance of any power conferred upon the President or the Minister
by the provisions of this Act shall be the same as was applicable and
declared in Singapore on 13 July 1971; and no part of the law before,
on or after that date of any other country in the Commonwealth
relating to judicial review shall apply.

                                                                                                             [2/1989]

 (2) There shall be no judicial review in any court of any act done or
decision made by the President or the Minister under the provisions of
this Act save in regard to any question relating to compliance with
any procedural requirement of this Act governing such act or
decision.

                                                                                                             [2/1989]

No appeals to Privy Council
 8C. [Repealed by Act 2 of 1994]

Commencement provision

 8D. Sections 8A and 8B shall apply to any proceedings instituted
by way of judicial review of any decision made or act done under the
provisions of this Act, whether such proceedings have been instituted
before or after 30 January 1989.

                                                                                                   [2/1989; 2/1994]

Duty to inform person detained of grounds of detention, etc.

 9. Whenever any person is detained under any order made under
section 8(1)(a) he shall, in accordance with Article 151 of the
Constitution, as soon as possible —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
17  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

    (a) be informed of the grounds of his detention;

    (b) subject to clause (3) of that Article (which provides that no
         authority may be required to disclose facts whose
         disclosure would in its opinion be against the national
         interest) be informed of the allegations of fact on which the
         order is based; and

    (c) be given the opportunity of making representations against
        the order as soon as possible.

Detention order may be suspended

 10. At any time after an order has been made in respect of any
person under section 8(1)(a) the Minister may direct that the
operation of such order be suspended subject to the execution of a
bond and to such conditions —

       (a) imposing upon that person such restrictions as may be
            specified in the direction in respect of his activities and the
            places of his residence and employment;

       (b) prohibiting him from being out of doors between such
            hours as may be so specified, except under the authority of
            a written permit granted by such authority or person as may
            be so specified;

       (c) requiring him to notify his movements in such manner, at
            such times and to such authority or person as may be so
            specified;

       (d) prohibiting him from travelling beyond the limits of
            Singapore or any part thereof specified in the direction
            except in accordance with permission given to him by such
            authority or person as may be so specified;

       (e) prohibiting him from addressing public meetings or from
            holding office in, or taking part in the activities of or acting
            as adviser to any organisation or association, or from
            taking part in any political activities;

        (f) permitting him to return to the country to which he belongs
            or to any other place to which he wishes to proceed

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               18

          provided that the government of such place consents to
          receive him,

as the Minister sees fit; and the Minister may revoke any such
direction if he is satisfied that the person against whom the order was
made has failed to observe any condition so imposed or that it is
necessary in the public interest that such direction should be revoked.

Representations against detention order

 11.—(1) A copy of every order made by the Minister under
section 8(1)(a) shall as soon as possible after the making thereof be
served on the person to whom it relates, and every such person shall
be entitled to make representations against the order to an advisory
board.

 (2) For the purpose of enabling a person to make representations
under subsection (1) he shall, within 14 days of the service on him of
the order —

       (a) be informed of his right to make representations to an
            advisory board under subsection (1); and

       (b) be furnished by the Minister with a statement in writing —

               (i) of the grounds on which the order is made;

              (ii) of the allegations of fact on which the order is based;
                   and

             (iii) of such other particulars, if any, as he may in the
                   opinion of the Minister reasonably require in order to
                   make his representations against the order to the
                   advisory board.

 (3) The President may make rules as to the manner in which
representations may be made under this section and for regulating the
procedure of advisory boards.

Report of advisory board

 12.—(1) Whenever any person has made any representations under
section 11(1) to an advisory board, the advisory board shall, within
3 months of the date on which such person was detained, consider

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
19  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

such representations and make recommendations thereon to the
President.

 (2) Upon considering the recommendations of the advisory board
under this section the President may give the Minister such
directions, if any, as he thinks fit regarding the order made by the
Minister; and every decision of the President thereon shall, subject to
section 13, be final and shall not be called in question in any court.

Review

 13.—(1) Every order or direction made or given by the Minister
under section 8 or 10 (including any order extended by direction of
the President under section 8(2)) shall, so long as it remains in force,
be reviewed by an advisory board at intervals of not more than
12 months, and the first of such reviews shall take place —

       (a) in the case of a person who is detained in a place of
            detention, not more than 12 months from the date on which
            his representations against the order were considered by an
            advisory board under section 12(1) or, where no such
            representations have been made, not more than 15 months
            from the date on which that person was detained in
            pursuance of the order;

       (b) in the case of a person who is not detained in a place of
            detention, where the order has been made under
            section 8(1), not more than 12 months from the date on
            which the order was served upon that person;

       (c) in the case of a person who has been released from a place
            of detention in pursuance of a direction under section 10,
            not more than 12 months from the date of his release.

 (2) The advisory board shall on completing every review under
subsection (1) forthwith submit to the Minister a written report of
every such review, and may make therein such recommendations as it
thinks fit.

Presidential concurrence

 13A. Where any advisory board recommends the release of any
person under section 12 or 13, the person shall not be detained or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               20

further detained without the President’s concurrence under
Article 151(4) of the Constitution.

                                                                                                            [11/1991]

Power to summon witnesses

 14. Every advisory board shall, for the purposes of this Act, but
subject to section 16, have all the powers of a court for the
summoning and examination of witnesses, the administration of
oaths or affirmations, and for compelling the production of
documents.

Member of advisory board deemed to be public servant

 15. Every member of an advisory board shall be deemed to be a
public servant within the meaning of the Penal Code 1871, and shall
have in case of any action or suit brought against him for any act done
or omitted to be done in the execution of his duty under the provisions
of this Chapter the like protection and privileges as are by law given
to a Judge in the execution of his office.

Disclosure of information

 16. Nothing in this Chapter or in any rules made thereunder shall
require the Minister or any member of an advisory board or any
public servant to disclose facts or to produce documents whose
disclosure or production he considers to be against the national
interest.

Power to order removal

 17.—(1) The Minister may by order direct the removal from any
place of detention to another place of detention to be specified in such
order of any person detained in pursuance of the provisions of this
Chapter.

 (2) Any person in course of removal under subsection (1) shall be
deemed to be in lawful custody.

Power to order production of detained person

 18.—(1) On proof to his satisfaction that the presence at any place
of any person detained under the provisions of this Chapter, or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
21  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

lawfully in the custody of the police or confined in any prison
whether in pursuance of the provisions of this Chapter or under an
order of any court or otherwise howsoever, and notwithstanding any
order of any court or other authority whatsoever, is required in the
interests of justice, or for the purpose of any public or other inquiry, or
in the national interest, or in the interests of the person detained, in
custody or confined, the Minister may order that such person be taken
to that place.

 (2) Any person in course of being taken to any place in pursuance of
subsection (1) and while at such place shall be kept in such custody as
the Minister may direct and while in that custody shall be deemed to
be in lawful custody.

Saving in respect of prosecution of persons detained

 19. The detention of any person under this Chapter shall be without
prejudice to the taking of any criminal proceedings against such
person, whether during or after the period of his detention.

                 Chapter 3 — Special powers relating to
                        subversive publications, etc.

Prohibition of printing, sale, etc., of documents and
publications

 20.—(1) Where it appears to the Minister charged with the
responsibility for printing presses and publications that any
document or publication —

       (a) contains any incitement to violence;

       (b) counsels disobedience to the law or to any lawful order;

       (c) is calculated or likely to lead to a breach of the peace, or to
            promote feelings of hostility between different races or
            classes of the population; or

       (d) is prejudicial to the national interest, public order or
            security of Singapore,

he may by order published in the Gazette prohibit either absolutely or
subject to such conditions as may be prescribed therein the printing,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               22

publication, sale, issue, circulation or possession of such document or
publication.

 (2) An order under subsection (1) may, if the order so provides, be
extended so as —

(a) in the case of a periodical publication, to prohibit the
     publication, sale, issue, circulation, possession or
     importation of any past or future issue thereof;

(b) in the case of a publication which has or appears or
     purports to have issued from a specified publishing house,
     agency or other source, to prohibit the publication, sale,
     issue, circulation or importation of any other publication
     which may at any time whether before or after the date of
     the order have or appear or purport to have issued from
     such specified publishing house, agency or other source.

Objections against orders under section 20

 21. The proprietor or agent in Singapore of the proprietor of any
publication which is the subject of an order made under section 20
may, within one month of the date of publication of the order in the
Gazette, make an objection against the order to the President, whose
decision shall be final and shall not be called in question in any court.

Printing, publishing, etc., in contravention of order under
section 20

 22. Any person who prints, publishes, sells, issues, circulates or
reproduces a document or publication which is the subject of an order
under section 20, or any extract therefrom, shall be guilty of an
offence under this Part and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years
or to both:

Provided that no person shall be convicted of an offence under this
section if he proves to the satisfaction of the court that the document
or publication in respect of which he is charged was printed,
published, sold, issued, circulated or reproduced, as the case may be,
without his authority, consent and knowledge, and without any want

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
23  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

of due care or caution on his part, and that he did not know and had
no reason to suspect the nature of the document or publication.

Possession of documents, etc., in contravention of order under
section 20

 23.—(1) Any person who without lawful excuse has in his
possession any document or publication the possession of which is
prohibited by an order under section 20, or any extract therefrom,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Part and shall be liable in
respect of a first offence under this section to a fine not exceeding
$1,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to
both and, in respect of a subsequent offence to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years.

 (2) In any proceedings against any person for an offence under this
section such person shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, to
have known the contents and the nature of the contents of any
document or publication immediately after the document or
publication came into his possession.

Importation in contravention of order under section 20

 24. Any person who imports or attempts to import or abets the
importation of any document or publication or without lawful excuse
has in his possession any document or publication imported in
contravention of an order under section 20 shall be guilty of an
offence under this Part and shall be liable in respect of a first offence
under this section to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both and, in respect of a
subsequent offence to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years.

Posting of placards, etc.

 25. Any person who posts or distributes any placard, circular or
other document containing any incitement to violence, or counselling
disobedience to the law or to any lawful order, or likely to lead to any
breach of the peace, shall be guilty of an offence under this Part.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               24

Dissemination of false reports

 26. Any person who, by word of mouth or in writing or in any
newspaper, periodical, book, circular or other printed publication or
by any other means spreads false reports or makes false statements
likely to cause public alarm, shall be guilty of an offence under this
Part.

Possession of subversive documents

 27.—(1) Any person who without lawful excuse carries or has in
his possession or under his control any subversive document shall be
guilty of an offence under this Part and shall be liable on conviction to
a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 5 years or to both.

 (2) Any person or any office bearer of any association or any
responsible member or agent of any organisation who receives any
subversive document shall deliver the same without delay to a police
officer; and any person, office bearer, member or agent who fails to
do so, or who, unless authorised to do so by a police officer not below
the rank of superintendent of police, communicates to any other
person, or publishes or causes to be published the contents of any
such document, shall be guilty of an offence under this Part and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

 (3) In this section, “subversive document” means any document
having in part or in whole a tendency —

       (a) to excite organised violence against persons or property in
            Singapore;

       (b) to support, propagate or advocate any act prejudicial to the
            security of Singapore or the maintenance or restoration of
            public order therein or inciting to violence therein or
            counselling disobedience to the law thereof or to any
            lawful order therein; or

       (c) to invite, request or demand support for or on account of
            any collection, subscription, contribution or donation,
            whether in money or in kind, for the direct or indirect

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
25  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

            benefit or use of persons who intend to act or are about to
            act, or have acted, in a manner prejudicial to the security of
            Singapore or to the maintenance of public order therein, or
            who incite to violence therein or counsel disobedience to
            the law thereof or any lawful order therein.

 (4) Every document purporting to be a subversive document shall
be presumed to be a subversive document until the contrary is proved;
and where in any prosecution under this section it is proved that a
person was carrying or had in his possession or under his control a
subversive document he shall be deemed to have known the contents
and the nature of the contents of such document:

Provided that no person shall be convicted of an offence under this
section if he proves to the satisfaction of the court —

       (a) that he was not aware of the contents and the nature of the
            contents of the subversive document which he was
            carrying or had in his possession or under his control; and

       (b) that he was carrying or had the subversive document in
            his possession or under his control in such circumstances
            that at no time did he have reasonable cause to believe or
            suspect that such document was a subversive document.

Powers of search and seizure of documents

 28.—(1) Any police officer may, without warrant and with or
without assistance —

       (a) enter and search any premises;

       (b) stop and search any vehicle, vessel, train, aircraft or
            individual, whether in a public place or not,

if he suspects that any document, publication, material or article
being evidence of the commission of an offence under this Chapter is
likely to be found in such vehicle, vessel, train, aircraft or on such
individual, and may seize any document, publication, material or
article so found.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               26

 (2) Any document, publication, material or article seized under
subsection (1) shall be destroyed or otherwise disposed of in such
manner as the Commissioner of Police may order.

 (3) The Commissioner of Police shall, on making an order under
subsection (2), if he has reason to believe that the owner, or person
who was in possession immediately before such document,
publication, material or article was seized, is in Singapore, cause a
notice to be served on that person informing him of the terms of the
order.

 (4) Any person aggrieved by an order made under subsection (2)
may appeal against the order to the Minister:

Provided that no appeal against the order shall be allowed unless
notice of appeal in writing, together with the reasons for the appeal,
is given to the Commissioner of Police and to the Minister within
14 days of service of notice of the order under subsection (3).

 (5) Where an order has been made under subsection (2) it shall only
be carried into effect if the order has not been appealed against or if
any appeal against the order has been dismissed or abandoned.

 (6) No woman shall be searched under this section except by a
woman.

Disposal of subversive documents, etc.

 29.—(1) Where proceedings are taken in respect of any offence
under this Chapter the court by or before which the alleged offender is
tried shall, on the request of any police officer not below the rank of
assistant superintendent of police, on the final determination of those
proceedings order that any document, publication, material or article
being an exhibit in such proceedings be delivered to such officer for
disposal under section 28(2).

 (2) For the purpose of this section, any proceedings shall not be
deemed to have been finally determined so long as there is pending
any appeal in the matter of the proceedings; and an appeal in the
matter shall be deemed to be pending during the ordinary time within
which such an appeal may be lodged, and if such an appeal is duly

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
27  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

lodged the appeal shall be deemed to be pending until it is decided or
withdrawn.

       Chapter 4 — Control of entertainments and exhibitions

Power to require information

 30.—(1) The promoter and every person concerned in the
promotion of any entertainment or exhibition and the proprietor of
any premises upon which any such entertainment or exhibition is held
or is intended to be held shall upon the order in writing of the Minister
or of any officer authorised by the Minister in that behalf furnish to
the Minister or that officer such information as he may specify
relating to the following matters:

       (a) particulars of persons concerned in the promotion of the
            entertainment or exhibition and the interests represented by
            those persons;

       (b) particulars of the persons who have agreed to participate or
            participated in the entertainment or exhibition or have been
            invited to do so and the interests represented by those
            persons;

       (c) the purposes to which any profits from the entertainment or
            exhibition are intended to be or have been applied; and

       (d) such other matters as the Minister may direct.

 (2) Any person furnishing as true information required under
subsection (1) which he knows or has reason to believe to be false or
incomplete shall be guilty of an offence under section 39.

 (3) In the event of any entertainment or exhibition in respect of
which information has been furnished under subsection (1) being
conducted in any manner contrary to the information so furnished the
person by whom the information was furnished shall be guilty of an
offence under section 39.

Power to impose conditions

 31.—(1) The Minister may, if he is satisfied that it is necessary to
do so in order to ensure that any entertainment or exhibition shall not
be an entertainment or exhibition to which section 33 would apply, by

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               28

order in writing require the promoter and every person concerned in
the promotion of the entertainment or exhibition and the proprietor of
any premises upon which any such entertainment or exhibition is held
or is intended to be held to observe such conditions relating to the
holding of such entertainment or exhibition as he may specify.

 (2) Every person who commits any breach of or fails to comply
with any conditions imposed under subsection (1) shall be guilty of
an offence under section 39:

Provided that no person shall be convicted of an offence under this
section if he proves that the breach of or failure to comply with the
conditions in respect of which he is charged was done without his
authority, consent and knowledge, and without any want of due care
or caution on his part.

 (3) The Minister may, if in any particular case he thinks it
necessary, require any person in respect of whom an order under
subsection (1) has been made to enter into a bond, with or without
sureties, in such sum as the Minister may direct, that the conditions
contained in such order shall be observed.

Promoter, etc., to be in attendance at entertainment or
exhibition

 32.—(1) The promoter and every person concerned in the
promotion of any entertainment or exhibition which is the subject
of an order under section 31 and the proprietor of any premises upon
which any such entertainment or exhibition is held shall severally,
and either personally or by a duly authorised agent approved in that
behalf by a police officer not below the rank of inspector, be present
throughout the period of every performance or display of every such
entertainment or exhibition.

 (2) The Minister may by writing exempt any person either
absolutely or subject to such conditions as the Minister may
prescribe from subsection (1).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
29  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

Power to prohibit certain entertainments or exhibitions

 33.—(1) The Minister may by order prohibit the holding of or may
direct the closing of any entertainment or exhibition —

       (a) if he is satisfied that such entertainment or exhibition is or
            is likely to be in any way detrimental to the national
            interest;

       (b) if there has been in respect of such entertainment or
            exhibition any refusal of or failure to furnish any
            information required to be furnished under section 30, or
            if any information so furnished is false or incomplete; or

       (c) if there has been in respect of such entertainment or
            exhibition any breach of or failure to comply with any
            conditions imposed under section 31.

 (2) The promoter and every person concerned in the promotion of
any entertainment or exhibition which is held or continued in
contravention of an order under subsection (1) and the proprietor of
any premises upon which such exhibition is held shall be guilty of an
offence under section 39:

Provided that no person shall be convicted of an offence under this
section if he proves that the entertainment or exhibition in respect of
which he is charged was promoted or continued without his
authority, consent and knowledge and without any want of due
care or caution on his part.

Powers of entry and investigation

 34.—(1) Any police officer or any person authorised by the
Minister in writing in that behalf may without warrant enter any
premises upon which any entertainment or exhibition is being held or
is intended to be held with a view to ascertaining whether the
provisions of this Chapter or of any order made thereunder are being
complied with, and may make such investigation and inspection of
such premises and call upon any person to produce such articles,
books, accounts, tickets or other documents or things and to furnish
any information as such officer or person may consider necessary for
such purpose:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               30

Provided that any person not in uniform purporting to exercise any
powers under this subsection shall on demand produce his written
authority to exercise such powers to any person lawfully demanding
the written authority.

 (2) Any person who —

       (a) obstructs any officer or authorised person lawfully
            exercising any powers conferred on him by or under
            subsection (1) in entering or inspecting any premises or
            delays in producing any articles, books, accounts or other
            documents or things which he has been called upon by
            such officer or authorised person to produce and which are
            or ought to be in the ordinary course of business in his
            power to produce;

       (b) refuses to furnish any information which he may be
            required to furnish by such officer or authorised person or
            who, being required to furnish information by such officer
            or authorised person, furnishes false or misleading
            information; or

       (c) obstructs the seizure of any document or other thing under
            section 36, or the closure of any entertainment or
            exhibition under section 37,

shall be guilty of an offence under section 39.

Search

 35.—(1) Any officer or person authorised to exercise the powers of
entry or investigation under section 34 may without warrant and with
or without assistance enter any premises if he considers it to be
necessary and has reason to believe that an offence under this Chapter
or any order made thereunder has been committed and may search
such place and any person whom he reasonably believes to be
concerned in the management or promotion of any entertainment or
exhibition or to be an agent or employee of the promoter or of the
proprietor of those premises.

 (2) No woman shall be searched under this section except by a
woman.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
31  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

Powers of seizure

 36. Any officer or person authorised to exercise the powers of entry
or investigation under section 34 may seize any document or other
thing in respect of which he reasonably believes an offence to have
been committed under this Chapter or any order made thereunder or
which he reasonably believes to be or to contain evidence relating to
such an offence:

Provided that nothing in this section shall be deemed to affect the
powers of a police officer under the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

Powers of closure

 37. Any officer or person authorised to exercise the powers of entry
or investigation under section 34 may, without prejudice to the
exercise of the powers conferred on him by that section, forthwith
take such steps as he may consider necessary to close any
entertainment or exhibition which he is satisfied is kept open in
contravention of any order made under section 31 or 33.

Liability of principal for acts of employee

 38. For the purposes of this Chapter and any orders made
thereunder every person shall be liable for every act, omission,
neglect or default of any agent or employee employed by him, as fully
and effectually as if such act, omission, neglect or default were done
or committed by such person; but so that nothing in this section shall
affect the liability of such agent or employee, and provided that the
liability of a principal shall not extend to imprisonment unless he is
privy to the offence.

Abetment and penalty

 39. Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any
provision of this Chapter or any order made or any condition imposed
thereunder, or abets such contravention or failure, shall be guilty of an
offence under this Part and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3
years or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               32

          Chapter 5 — Other powers for the
                prevention of subversion

Powers relating to appointments

 40.—(1) Where any written law confers any power relating to any
appointment upon any person, body or authority constituted under
such law, the Minister may by order require that, before making any
appointment, that person, body or authority shall submit to him —

(a) a list of the names of the persons from whom such
     appointment will be made; and

(b) such other information as may be specified in the order.

 (2) Such person, body or authority shall not appoint or recruit any
person whose appointment is in the opinion of the Minister
prejudicial to the interests of Singapore.

 (3) No person otherwise than in the course of his official duty shall
disclose to any person any communication which he may have
received from the Minister under subsection (2).

Power to close schools or educational institutions

 41.—(1) The Minister, if he is satisfied at any time that a school or
educational institution is being used —

       (a) for a purpose detrimental to the interests of Singapore or of
            the public;

       (b) for the purpose of instruction detrimental to the interests of
            the public or of the pupils; or

       (c) as a meeting-place of an unlawful society,

and that the circumstances so require, may make an order closing
such school or educational institution for such period, not exceeding
6 months at any one time, as may be specified in the order.

 (2) The board of managers or governors of any school or
educational institution, aggrieved by any order made under
subsection (1), may within one month of the date of the order
make an objection against such order to the President whose decision
shall be final and shall not be called in question in any court.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
33  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

(3) In this section —

    “school” means —

    (a) a place where 10 or more persons are or are habitually
         taught, whether in one or more classes; or

    (b) in the case of a correspondence school, the place or
         places where instruction is prepared or where
         answers are examined or corrected,

    but does not include any place where the teaching is of a
    purely religious character, or for a purely religious purpose;

    “educational institution” means any place (including a school)
       where, in the carrying on of the work of any organisation or
       institution, persons are or are habitually taught, whether in
       one or more classes, except that it does not include any place
       where the teaching is of a purely religious character or for
       purely religious purposes.

Control of admission to institutions of higher education

 42.—(1) Notwithstanding anything in any other written law, no
person shall, on or after 1 August 1964, be admitted as a student to
any institution of higher education to which this section applies
unless he holds a certificate of suitability for admission thereto issued
to him in accordance with subsection (2):

Provided that this subsection shall not apply to any person ordinarily
resident outside Singapore whose admission to any such institution
is recommended by any person or body designated for the purposes
of this section by the Minister charged with the responsibility for
education.

 (2) Any person requiring a certificate of suitability for admission to
any institution of higher education shall apply therefor in writing to
the Director of Education; and the Director of Education, after
making such enquiries as he may consider appropriate, shall issue the
certificate unless there appear to him to be reasonable grounds for
believing that the applicant, if admitted to the institution in question,
would be likely to promote, or otherwise participate in, action

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               34

prejudicial to the interests or security of Singapore or any part
thereof.

 (3) Any person whose application for a certificate under this section
is refused may, at any time within the period of 28 days beginning
with the date on which he is notified of the decision, appeal against it
to the Minister; and on any such appeal, the Minister —

(a) if he is satisfied of the existence of the grounds referred to
     in subsection (2), shall confirm the decision;

(b) in any other case, shall direct the issue of a certificate.

 (4) The decision of the Minister on any appeal under subsection (3)
shall be final and shall not be called in question in any court.

 (5) The institutions of higher education to which this section
applies are as follows:

(a) the National University of Singapore, the Singapore
     Polytechnic and the Ngee Ann Polytechnic;

(b) any other institution of higher education which the
     Minister may designate for the purposes of this section
     by a notification in the Gazette,

and references in this section to a person’s admission as a student to
any such institution are references to his registration or enrolment for
attendance at any course of study provided by the institution.

Powers in relation to pupils, etc., visiting Singapore

 43.—(1) The Minister may from time to time by order in writing
forbid, except in accordance with the written permission of the
Commissioner of Police or any police officer not below the rank of
superintendent of police authorised in writing in that behalf by the
Commissioner of Police first obtained —

       (a) the pupils, students, teachers or members;

       (b) any class of pupils, students, teachers or members; or

       (c) any named pupil, student, teacher or member,

of any school, college, educational institution or students’ union or
association, as the case may be, specified in the order and situated or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
35  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

established outside Singapore to enter into or travel within Singapore
as a group, or as one of a group of 5 or more such pupils, students,
teachers or members, or, for the purpose of effecting as one of a group
of such persons some common object within Singapore, otherwise to
enter into or travel therein.

 (2) The Commissioner of Police or any police officer authorised in
writing by him in accordance with subsection (1) may grant
permission under subsection (1) subject to such conditions (if any)
as he may think fit to impose, and he may further require as a
condition precedent thereto that a pupil, student, teacher or member
to whom he proposes to grant such permission or the parent of a pupil,
student or member or such other person as he, the Commissioner of
Police, or such authorised police officer thinks satisfactory, shall
furnish such security by bond or otherwise as the Commissioner of
Police or such authorised police officer may think sufficient to secure
the due observance and fulfilment of the conditions imposed.

(3) Where the Commissioner of Police has reason to believe —

    (a) that any person —

    (i) is a pupil, student, teacher or member affected by an
        order made under subsection (1);

    (ii) has entered Singapore from a place outside and has
         not since the date of such entry continuously
         remained in Singapore for a period exceeding
         3 months;

    (iii) is not the holder of a valid identity card issued to him
          in Singapore in accordance with the provisions of
          any written law for the time being in force relating to
          identity cards and which bears an address within
          Singapore; and

    (iv) has contravened or intends to contravene the
         provisions of any such order; or

    (b) that any person having obtained written permission under
         subsection (1) has failed to observe any conditions
         imposed upon him under subsection (2) in respect of
         such permission,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               36

the Commissioner of Police may by order in writing —

          (c) direct that such person be required to leave Singapore
              within such time as may be specified in the order and
              thereafter remain out of Singapore for a period of 6 months
              from the date of the service of the order upon him, or for
              such lesser period as the Commissioner of Police may
              specify; or

(d) direct that such person be taken into custody and, as
     speedily as may be, conducted across the frontier, and that
     person may lawfully be detained for so long as may be
     necessary for his removal to take effect; and such person so
     removed shall remain out of Singapore for a period of
     6 months from the date of his removal.

 (4) Any person who contravenes or fails to obey any order made
under this section or who commits a breach of any conditions
imposed under subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence.

 (5) This section shall not operate to authorise the removal from
Singapore of any person who is a citizen of Singapore ordinarily
resident in Singapore.

                        Chapter 6 — Miscellaneous

Attempts to commit offences and assisting offenders

 44.—(1) Without prejudice to the operation of Chapters 5 and 23 of
the Penal Code 1871 any person who attempts to commit, or does any
act preparatory to the commission of an offence under this Part shall
be deemed to be guilty of that offence under this Part.

 (2) No person knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
another person is guilty of an offence under this Part shall give that
other person any assistance with intent thereby to prevent, hinder or
interfere with the apprehension, trial or punishment of that person for
that offence.

Abetment and general penalty

 45. Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any
provision of this Part or any order made or any direction or instruction

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
37  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

given or requirement imposed thereunder or abets such contravention
or failure for which no special penalty is provided shall be guilty of an
offence under this Part and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one
year or to both.

Arrest

 46. Any police officer may without warrant arrest any person
suspected of the commission of an offence under this Part or of being
a person ordered in pursuance of this Part to be detained.

Enforcement of bonds

 47.—(1) Where any person is required to enter into a bond under
section 8(1), 10 or 31(3), such bond may be enforced by any
Magistrate on the application of any police officer not below the rank
of sergeant, in the same manner as under the provisions of the
Criminal Procedure Code 2010 the court of such Magistrate may
enforce a bond required by that court to be executed under the
provisions of that Code.

 (2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the penalty or
any part thereof of any such bond from being recovered by suit or
action in any civil court of competent jurisdiction, from the person
entering into such bond or from his sureties, in accordance with any
law for the time being in force relating to Government proceedings.

                                    PART 3

               SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO
                            SECURITY AREAS

              Chapter 1 — Proclamation of security areas

Proclamation of security areas

 48.—(1) If in the opinion of the President public security in any
area in Singapore is seriously disturbed or threatened by reason of any
action taken or threatened by any substantial body of persons,
whether inside or outside Singapore, to cause or to cause a substantial
number of citizens to fear organised violence against persons or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               38

property, he may, if he considers it to be necessary for the purpose of
suppressing such organised violence, proclaim such area as a security
area for the purposes of this Part.

 (2) Every proclamation made under subsection (1) shall apply only
to such area as is therein specified and shall remain in force until it is
revoked by the President or is annulled by resolution passed by
Parliament:

Provided that such revocation or annulment shall be without
prejudice to anything previously done by virtue of the proclamation.

 (3) A proclamation made under subsection (1) shall be published in
such manner as the Minister thinks necessary for bringing it to the
notice of all persons who in his opinion ought to have notice thereof
and shall have effect as soon as such notice has been given, without
publication in the Gazette.

 (4) A copy of every proclamation made under subsection (1) shall
be published in the Gazette and shall be presented to Parliament as
soon as possible after it has been made.

            Chapter 2 — Powers relating to preservation of
                                public security

Danger area

 49.—(1) The Minister, if he considers it necessary or expedient in
the public security to do so, may, by order to be published in the
Gazette, declare any area within a security area to be a danger area.

 (2) The limits and extent of every danger area shall be demarcated
at the site by such means as will, in the opinion of the Minister, make
apparent to persons in or about the area concerned that such area has
been declared a danger area.

 (3) No person shall enter or remain in a danger area, and any person
who fails to comply with this subsection shall be guilty of an offence
under this Part:

Provided that this subsection shall not apply to members of the
security forces in the performance of their duty, or to any person
accompanied by any such member.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
39  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

 (4) Any member of the security forces may within a danger area
take such measures, including means dangerous or fatal to human
life, as he considers necessary to ensure that no person prohibited
from entering or remaining in a danger area shall enter or remain in
such area.

 (5) No claim of any kind shall accrue to, or in respect of any injury
sustained by, any person as a result of his having entered or remained
in a danger area in contravention of subsection (3):

Provided that this subsection shall not preclude the award of
compensation under any regulations made under section 72 if, in the
particular circumstances under which the person sustaining the
injury entered or remained in a danger area, the authority
empowered to award compensation thereunder considers it
equitable to award such compensation.

 (6) Where any land, building or other immovable property is within
a danger area, a claim for compensation in respect of such land,
building or other immovable property may be made in the manner
prescribed by regulations made under section 72.

Controlled area

 50.—(1) The Minister may, if he considers it expedient in the public
security to do so, make an order, which shall be published in the
Gazette, declaring any area within a security area to be a controlled
area, and in the same or any subsequent order may declare any
specified part of such controlled area to be a residential part.

 (2) Every such order shall declare —

       (a) that after the expiration of a period to be specified in the
            order (which shall not be less than 7 days from the date
            thereof) and subject to any exemption for which provision
            may be made by the same or by a subsequent order and to
            any conditions upon which such exemption may be
            granted, no person shall reside or continue to reside in
            any part of a controlled area other than a residential part;

       (b) that between such hours or at such times as may be
            specified in the order and subject to any exemption for

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               40

          which provision may be made by the same or by a
          subsequent order and to any conditions upon which such
          exemption may be granted, no person shall enter or remain
          in any part of the controlled area other than a residential
          part.

 (3) Any person who contravenes the provisions of an order made
under this section shall be guilty of an offence under this Part.

(4) No order under this section shall apply to —

(a) the President;

(b) any member of the security forces when acting in the
     course of his duty;

          (c) any person or class of persons exempted from the
              provisions of such order by the Commissioner of Police
              or the officer in charge of the division.

Protected place

 51.—(1) If, as respects any place or premises in any security area, it
appears to the Commissioner of Police to be necessary or expedient in
the interests of public security or order, or for the maintenance of
supplies or services essential to the life of the community, that special
precautions should be taken to prevent the entry of unauthorised
persons, he may by order declare such place or premises to be a
protected place for the purposes of this Part; and so long as the order
is in force, no person shall, subject to any exemptions for which
provision may be made in the order, enter or remain in that place or
those premises without the permission of such authority or person as
may be specified in the order.

 (2) Where, in pursuance of this section, any person is granted
permission to be in a protected place, that person shall, while acting
under such permission, comply with such directions for regulating his
conduct as may be given by the Commissioner of Police or by the
authority or person granting the permission.

 (3) Any police officer, or any person authorised in that behalf by the
officer in charge of the division may search any person entering or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
41  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

seeking to enter, or being in, a protected place, and may detain any
such person for the purpose of searching him.

 (4) If any person is in a protected place in contravention of this
section, or, while in such a place, fails to comply with any directions
given under this section, then without prejudice to any proceedings
which may be taken against him, he may be removed from the place
by any police officer or any person authorised in that behalf by the
occupier of the premises.

 (5) Any person who is in a protected place in contravention of this
section or who on being challenged by a police officer wilfully fails to
stop or who unlawfully refuses to submit to search shall be guilty of
an offence under this Part.

 (6) It shall be lawful for the Commissioner of Police to take or
cause to be taken such steps as he may consider necessary for the
protection of any protected place, and such steps may extend to the
taking of defensive measures which involve or may involve danger to
the life of any person entering or attempting to enter the protected
place.

 (7) Where any measures involving such danger as aforesaid are
adopted, the Commissioner of Police shall cause such precautions to
be taken, including the prominent display of warning notices, as he
considers reasonably necessary to prevent inadvertent or accidental
entry into any protected place, and where such precautions have been
duly taken, no person shall be entitled to compensation or damages in
respect of injury received or death caused as a result of any
unauthorised entry into any such protected place.

(8) For the purposes of this section, “police officer” shall include —

    (a) any member of the security forces;

    (b) any prison officer;

    (c) any other person performing the duties of a guard or
        watchman in a protected place, the appointment of whom
        has been either specially or generally authorised by the
        Commissioner of Police.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               42

 (9) No woman shall be searched under this section except by a
woman.

Exclusion of persons

 52. The officer in charge of a division may by order in writing
exclude any person or persons from the division under his charge or
from any part thereof, such division or part being part of a security
area.

Curfew

 53.—(1) Every person within any division or part thereof within a
security area which may be designated by order by the officer in
charge of the division shall remain within doors, or within such area
as may be defined in the order, between such hours as may be
specified in the order, unless in possession of a written permit in that
behalf issued by a police officer of or above the rank of sergeant.

 (2) No order under this section shall apply to —

       (a) the President;

       (b) any member of the security forces when acting in the
            course of his duty;

       (c) any person or class of persons exempted from the
            provisions of such order by the Commissioner of Police
            or the officer in charge of the division.

Power to take possession of land or buildings

 54.—(1) The Minister may if it appears to him to be necessary or
expedient to do so in the interests of public security, or for the
accommodation of any security forces, take possession of any land or
of any building or part of a building in any security area and may give
such directions as appear to him necessary or expedient in connection
with the taking of possession of that land or building.

 (2) Any police officer may take such steps and use such force as
appears to him to be reasonably necessary for securing compliance
with directions given to any person under subsection (1).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
43  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

 (3) While any land or building is in the possession of the Minister
by virtue of this section, the land or building may, notwithstanding
any restriction imposed on the use thereof (whether by any written
law or other instrument or otherwise), be used by, or under the
authority of, the Minister for such purpose, and in such manner, as the
Minister thinks expedient in the interests of public security or for the
accommodation of any security forces; and the Minister, so far as
appears to him to be necessary or expedient in connection with the
taking of possession or use of the land or building in pursuance of this
subsection —

    (a) may do, or authorise persons using the land or building as
         aforesaid to do, in relation to the land or building, anything
         any person having an interest in the land or building would
         be entitled to do by virtue of that interest; and

    (b) may by order provide for prohibiting or restricting the
         exercise of rights of way over the land or building, and of
         other rights relating thereto which are enjoyed by any
         person, whether by virtue of an interest in land or
         otherwise.

 (4) The owner or occupier of any land or building shall, if requested
by or on behalf of the Minister to do so, furnish to such authority or
person as may be specified in the request such information in his
possession relating to the land or building (being information which
may reasonably be demanded of him in connection with the execution
of this section) as may be so specified.

 (5) For the purposes of this section, there shall be one or more
advisory committees consisting of persons appointed by the Minister;
and any such committee may make rules for the conduct of its
proceedings.

 (6) Any person aggrieved by reason of the taking possession of any
land or building under this section may within 14 days after such
possession has been taken give notice of his objection thereto to an
advisory committee appointed under subsection (5).

 (7) The chairman of an advisory committee to which such notice
has been given by an aggrieved person shall inform any person on
whose behalf possession of such land or building has been taken, and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               44

the advisory committee shall thereupon consider the objection made
by the aggrieved person and any grounds which may be put forward
against such objections by the person on whose behalf such
possession has been taken, and shall forward its recommendations
to the Minister.

 (8) The Minister after considering the recommendations of the
advisory committee shall give such directions thereon as he may
think fit.

Power to order destruction of certain unoccupied buildings

 55.—(1) Where in any security area any building or structure is left
unoccupied by reason of the operation of any order made under this
Chapter, the officer in charge of the division in which such building or
structure is situated may if it appears to him —

       (a) to be likely that such building or structure will if left
            standing be used by any person or persons who intend, or
            are about, to act or have recently acted in a manner
            prejudicial to public security or by any other person who is
            likely to harbour any such persons; and

       (b) to be impracticable in any other way to prevent such use,

destroy or authorise the destruction of that building or structure.

 (2) Compensation shall be payable in respect of the destruction of
any building or structure under this section if the claimant satisfies the
Minister —

       (a) that such building or structure was erected by or with the
            consent of the person lawfully entitled to the land on which
            the same was erected; and

       (b) that such building or structure was not liable to forfeiture
            under any regulations made under section 72:

Provided that compensation may be paid to the owner or occupier of
any building or structure erected by or with the consent of the person
lawfully entitled to the land on which it was erected,
notwithstanding that such building or structure is liable to
forfeiture under any regulations made under section 72, if such

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
45  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

owner or occupier satisfies the Minister that the building or structure
was used by persons who intend, or are about, to act or have recently
acted, in a manner prejudicial to public security or that such persons
were being or had been harboured by his employee or agent, as the
case may be, without his knowledge or consent, and that he
exercised all due diligence to prevent such building or structure
being so used or the harbouring of such persons, as the case may be.

 (3) Any compensation payable under this section shall be assessed
in accordance with regulations made under section 72.

Power to control roads, etc.

 56.—(1) Any officer in charge of a division or any person duly
authorised by any such officer may by order, or by giving directions,
or in any other manner, regulate, restrict, control or prohibit the use of
any road or waterway in any security area by any person or class of
persons or any vehicle or vessel or type or description of vehicle or
vessel or close any road or waterway in such area.

 (2) Any officer in charge of a division may, by the issue of permits
to which conditions may be attached or in any other manner, regulate,
restrict, control or prohibit the travelling by any person or class of
persons in any train, motor car, motor bus or vehicle of any
description in any security area, and may similarly regulate, restrict,
control or prohibit the travelling by any person in any vessel in such
area.

Power to seize rice and other food

 57.—(1) When on duty, any police officer or any member of the
security forces of or above the rating or rank of leading rate or
non‑commissioned officer (as the case may be) or any person
authorised in writing to do so by the officer in charge of the division
may seize any rice or any other article of food in any security area
which by reason of its quantity or its situation is or is likely to or may
become available to any persons who intend or are about to act or
have recently acted in a manner prejudicial to public security or to the
maintenance of public order.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               46

 (2) Any such police officer or member of such forces as aforesaid
may without warrant enter and search any premises if he suspects that
any rice or any food liable to seizure under this section is likely to be
found on such premises.

 (3) When on duty any police officer or any member of the security
forces or any person who is authorised in writing to do so by the
officer in charge of the division may stop and search any vessel,
vehicle or individual in any security area, whether in a public place or
not, if he suspects that any rice or any food liable to seizure under this
section is likely to be found on such vessel, vehicle or individual.

 (4) No woman shall be searched under this section except by a
woman.

            Chapter 3 — Offences relating to security areas

Offences relating to firearms, ammunition and explosives

 58.—(1) Any person who without lawful excuse, the onus of
proving which shall be on such person, in any security area carries or
has in his possession or under his control —

       (a) any firearm without lawful authority therefor; or

       (b) any ammunition or explosive without lawful authority
            therefor,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Part and shall be liable on
conviction to be punished with death.

 (2) A person shall be deemed to have lawful authority for the
purposes of this section only if he —

       (a) is a police officer or a member of the security forces, or any
            person employed in the Prisons Department, and in every
            such case is carrying or is in possession of or has under his
            control such firearm, ammunition or explosive in or in
            connection with the performance of his duty;

       (b) is a person duly licensed, or authorised without a licence,
            under the provisions of any written law for the time being
            in force to carry, possess or have under his control such
            firearm, ammunition or explosive; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
47  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

    (c) is a person exempted from this section by an officer in
        charge of a division, or is a member of any class of persons
        so exempted by the Commissioner of Police by notification
        in the Gazette:

Provided that no person shall be deemed to have lawful authority for
the purposes of this section or to be exempt from this section if he
carries or has in his possession or under his control any such firearm,
ammunition or explosive for the purpose of using the same in a
manner prejudicial to public security or the maintenance of public
order.

 (3) A person shall be deemed to have lawful excuse for the purposes
of this section only if he proves —

       (a) that he acquired such firearm, ammunition or explosive in
            a lawful manner and for a lawful purpose; and

       (b) that he has not at any time while carrying or having in his
            possession or under his control such firearm, ammunition
            or explosive acted in a manner prejudicial to public
            security or the maintenance of public order.

 (4) A person charged with an offence under this section shall not be
granted bail.

Consorting with person carrying or having possession of
firearms or explosives

 59.—(1) Any person who in any security area consorts with or is
found in the company of another person who is carrying or has in his
possession or under his control any firearm, ammunition or explosive
in contravention of section 58, in circumstances which raise a
reasonable presumption that he intends, or is about, to act, or has
recently acted, with such other person in a manner prejudicial to
public security or the maintenance of public order shall be guilty of an
offence under this Part and shall be liable on conviction to be
punished with death or with imprisonment for life.

 (2) Any person who in any security area consorts with, or is found
in the company of, another person who is carrying or has in his
possession, or under his control any firearm, ammunition or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               48

explosive in contravention of section 58, in circumstances which
raise a reasonable presumption that he knew that such other person
was carrying or had in his possession or under his control any such
firearm, ammunition or explosive shall be guilty of an offence under
this Part and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 10 years.

 (3) Where, in any prosecution for an offence under this section, it is
established to the satisfaction of the court that the accused person was
consorting with or in the company of any person who was carrying or
had in his possession or under his control any firearm, ammunition or
explosive, it shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, that such
last mentioned person was carrying or had in his possession or under
his control such firearm, ammunition or explosive in contravention of
section 58.

Supplies

 60.—(1) Any person who whether within or outside a security area
demands, collects or receives any supplies from any other person in
circumstances which raise a reasonable presumption that he intends,
or is about, to act, or has recently acted, in a manner prejudicial to
public security or the maintenance of public order, or that the supplies
so demanded, collected or received are intended for the use of any
person who intends or is about, so to act, or has recently so acted, or
for the use of any terrorist, shall be guilty of an offence under this Part
and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for life.

 (2) Any person who whether within or outside a security area is
found in possession of any supplies for which he cannot satisfactorily
account in circumstances which raise a reasonable presumption that
such supplies are intended for the use of any person who intends, or is
about, to act, or has recently acted, in a manner prejudicial to public
security or the maintenance of public order, or that such supplies are
intended for the use of any terrorist shall be guilty of an offence under
this Part and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for life.

 (3) Any person who whether within or outside a security area
provides, whether directly or indirectly, any supplies to any other
person in circumstances which raise a reasonable presumption that
such other person intends, or is about, to act, or has recently acted, in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
49  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

a manner prejudicial to public security or the maintenance of public
order, or that the supplies so provided are intended for the use of any
person who intends or is about, so to act, or has recently so acted, or
that such supplies are intended for the use of any terrorist shall be
guilty of an offence under this Part and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for life:

Provided that no person shall be convicted of any offence under this
subsection if he proves that prior to being charged with or accused of
such offence by a police officer or a person in authority he
voluntarily gave full information of the offence to a police officer.

 (4) In any charge for an offence under this section it shall not be
necessary to specify the person or persons from whom any supplies
were demanded, collected or received or to whom any supplies were
provided or intended to be provided.

Failure to report offences or to give information

 61. Any person who, whether within or outside a security area,
while any proclamation under section 48 is in force —

       (a) knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that another
            person has committed an offence under this Part fails to
            report that offence to a police officer; or

       (b) having in his possession any information as to the present
            or intended movements or whereabouts of any person
            whom he knows or has reasonable cause to believe to be a
            terrorist fails to report the same to a police officer,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Part and shall be liable on
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 10 years:

Provided that no person shall be convicted of any offence under this
section if he proves that prior to being charged with or accused of
such offence by a police officer or a person in authority, he
voluntarily gave full information of such other offence or of such
movements or whereabouts to a police officer.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               50

Attempt to commit offences

 62. Without prejudice to the operation of Chapter 5 and Chapter 23
of the Penal Code 1871, any person who whether within or outside a
security area, while any proclamation under section 48 is in force,
attempts to commit, or does any act preparatory to the commission of
an offence under this Part shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence
under this Part.

Assisting offenders

 63. No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
another person has committed an offence under this Part, shall,
whether within or outside a security area, give that other person any
assistance with intent thereby to prevent, hinder or interfere with the
apprehension, trial or punishment of that person for the offence.

Abetment and general penalty

 64. If any person contravenes or fails to comply with any provision
of this Part, or any order made under or direction given or
requirement imposed under any such section of this Part or,
whether within or outside a security area, abets such contravention
or failure, he shall be guilty of an offence under this Part; and subject
to any special provisions contained in this Part or in any regulations
made under section 72, a person guilty of any such offence shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

               Chapter 4 — Powers of police and others

Arrest

 65.—(1) Any police officer may without warrant arrest any person
suspected of the commission of an offence under this Part.

 (2) The powers conferred upon a police officer by subsection (1)
may be exercised by any member of the security forces, by any person
performing the duties of a guard or watchman in a protected place,
and by any other person generally authorised in that behalf by the
Commissioner of Police.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
51                Internal Security Act 1960                 2020 Ed.

Powers of search

 66.—(1) When on duty any police officer or any member of the
security forces or any person who is authorised in writing to do so by
the officer in charge of a division, may without warrant and with or
without assistance stop and search any vehicle, vessel, train, aircraft
or individual, whether in a public place or not, if he suspects that any
article or material being evidence of the commission of an offence
under this Part is likely to be found in such vehicle, vessel, train,
aircraft or on such individual, and may seize any article or material so
found.

 (2) When on duty any police officer of or above the rank of corporal
or any member of the security forces of or above the rating or rank of
leading rate or non-commissioned officer (as the case may be) or any
person authorised in writing to do so by the officer in charge of a
division may without warrant and with or without assistance enter
and search any premises or place if he suspects that any article or
material being evidence of the commission of any offence under this
Part is likely to be found on such premises or place and may seize any
article or material so found.

 (3) No woman shall be searched under this section except by a
woman.

Power to dispense with death inquiries

 67. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any written law, in
any security area —

       (a) a Coroner may dispense with the holding of a death inquiry
            on the dead body of any police officer or of any member of
            the security forces;

       (b) where the Coroner responsible for holding a death inquiry
            upon the body of any person is satisfied that such person
            has been killed in a security area as a result of operations
            by the police or by the security forces for the purpose of
            suppressing organised violence, the Coroner may dispense
            with the holding of a death inquiry on the body of such
            person.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               52

Medical officers of armed forces to be regarded as pathologist
or medical practitioner under supervision of pathologist

 68. The provisions of the Coroners Act 2010 shall, in respect of any
inquiries into any death in any security area, have effect as if
reference therein to a pathologist, or a medical practitioner under the
supervision of a pathologist, included reference in each case to a
medical officer of the Singapore Armed Forces when acting in the
course of his duty:

Provided that no such medical officer of the Singapore Armed
Forces shall, without his consent, be required by any order or
otherwise to perform a post-mortem examination of any body.

                                                                   [15/2010]

                            Chapter 5 — General

Compensation

 69.—(1) Where in the exercise of the powers conferred by
section 54 or by any regulations made under section 72, possession
is taken of any land, building or other structure or of any movable
property or of any space or accommodation in any vessel, aircraft,
train or vehicle, compensation in respect of such possession shall be
assessed in accordance with regulations made under section 72.

 (2) For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared that no
compensation shall be payable to any person in respect of any damage
or injury to his person or property caused by or consequent upon any
act authorised by this Part or any regulations made under section 72,
unless provision for such compensation is made by this Part or any
regulations made under section 72.

Application of section 94 of Penal Code 1871

 70. Section 94 of the Penal Code 1871 (which relates to an act to
which a person is compelled by threats) shall have effect as if
offences punishable with death under this Part were offences included
in Chapter 6 of the Penal Code 1871 punishable with death.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
53  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

Extension of right of private defence

 71. The right of private defence of property conferred by
section 105 of the Penal Code 1871 shall be deemed to extend to
any mischief by fire or explosive committed on a railway engine,
railway rolling stock or a motor vehicle in any security area, as it
applies to mischief by fire committed on a building used as a human
dwelling or as a place for the custody of property.

                                                                                                           [15/2019]

                Chapter 6 — Power to make regulations

Power to make regulations

 72.—(1) When a proclamation has been made under section 48 it
shall be lawful for the President to make in respect of any security
area any regulations whatsoever which he considers desirable for the
public security.

 (2) Without prejudice to the generality or scope of the powers
conferred by subsection (1), regulations may be made under
subsection (1) in respect of any matters coming within the classes
of subjects hereinafter specified:

       (a) the assessment and payment of remuneration,
            compensation and allowances in respect of all matters
            done under this Act or any regulations made thereunder or
            in respect of injuries occasioned by or resulting from any
            proclamation under section 48;

       (b) the restriction of the movement of persons in any security
            area;

       (c) processions and meetings in any security area;

       (d) the supply and distribution of food, water, fuel, light and
            other necessities in any security area;

       (e) the declaration of fences or barriers surrounding any area
            in a security area as perimeter fences, and the regulation of
            traffic and supplies from within and outside any such areas;

        (f) the eviction of persons unlawfully in occupation of land
            within any security area;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               54

(g) the seizure, occupation and forfeiture of land, buildings
     and other structures and movable property within any
     security area belonging to or used by persons who intend or
     are about to act or have acted in a manner prejudicial to the
     public security of Singapore, or belonging to or used by
     persons who are harbouring or have harboured or who by
     their employees or agents are harbouring or have
     harboured any such persons;

(h) the appropriation, control, forfeiture, disposition and use of
     property in any security area;

          (i) the requisition of space or accommodation in any vessel,
              aircraft, train or vehicle within any security area;

          (j) the destruction of buildings and other structures within any
              security area;

          (k) the clearance of lands within any security area, the
              recovery of the costs of and the payment of
              compensation in respect of such clearance;

          (l) the payment of gratuities to workmen injured or to the
              dependants of workmen killed by acts of terrorism in any
              security area;

(m) the restriction and prohibition in any security area of
     foodstuffs and other supplies;

(n) the registration of persons or any class of persons and the
     control of occupations and industries within any security
     area;

(o) the control of the movement of rubber and the protection of
     rubber plants in any security area;

(p) modification, amendment, supersession or suspension of
     the provisions of any written law for the time being in force
     in any security area;

(q) entry into and search of premises or other places and the
     arrest, search and interrogation of persons within any
     security area;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
55  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

    (r) the formation of tribunals and other bodies for the purpose
        of deciding any matters specified in such regulations, but
        having no powers to inflict fines or imprisonment;

    (s) the prescription of fees and other payments;

    (t) any other matter in respect of which it is in the opinion of
        the President desirable in the interests of public security
        that regulations should be made.

 (3) Any regulations made under this section may provide for the
infliction in the event of a contravention thereof of a fine not
exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years
or to both.

(4) Any regulations made under this section shall —

    (a) unless the President otherwise directs, come into force on
         the day on which they are made, and shall then continue in
         force so long as the proclamation under section 48 is in
         force, unless sooner revoked;

    (b) have effect only within the security area or areas to which
         the proclamation applies.

 (5) All subsidiary legislation made under this Act in force in any
security area immediately before the revocation or annulment of any
proclamation made under section 48 shall cease to have effect in such
area upon such revocation or annulment, but without prejudice to the
taking or continuance of any proceedings in respect of anything
previously done or omitted to be done, or to the payment of any
compensation or allowance thereunder.

                                    PART 4
                   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Seizability and bailability of offences
 73.—(1) Every offence under this Act shall be seizable for the
purposes of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               56

 (2) Every offence under this Act punishable with imprisonment for
a term exceeding 3 years shall be non-bailable for the purposes of the
Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

Power to detain suspected persons

 74.—(1) Any police officer may without warrant arrest and detain
pending enquiries any person in respect of whom he has reason to
believe —

       (a) that there are grounds which would justify his detention
            under section 8; and

       (b) that he has acted or is about to act or is likely to act in any
            manner prejudicial to the security of Singapore or any part
            thereof.

 (2) Any police officer may without warrant arrest and detain
pending enquiries any person, who upon being questioned by the
officer fails to satisfy the officer as to his identity or as to the purposes
for which he is in the place where he is found, and who such officer
suspects has acted or is about to act in any manner prejudicial to the
security of Singapore or any part thereof.

 (3) No person shall be detained under this section for a period
exceeding 24 hours except with the authority of a police officer of or
above the rank of assistant superintendent of police or, subject as
hereinafter provided, for a period of 48 hours in all.

 (4) If an officer of or above the rank of superintendent of police is
satisfied that the necessary enquiries cannot be completed within the
period of 48 hours prescribed by subsection (3) he may authorise the
further detention of any person detained under this section for an
additional period not exceeding 28 days.

 (5) Any officer giving any authorisation under subsection (4) shall
forthwith report the circumstances thereof to the Commissioner of
Police; and where such authorisation authorises detention for any
period exceeding 14 days the Commissioner of Police shall forthwith
report the circumstances thereof to the Minister.

 (6) The powers of a police officer under subsections (1) and (2) may
be exercised by any member of the security forces, and (in the case of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
57  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

a protected place) any authorised officer of that protected place
(within the meaning of the Infrastructure Protection Act 2017).

                                                                                                           [41/2017]

 (7) Any person detained under the powers conferred by this section
shall be deemed to be in lawful custody, and may be detained in any
prison, or in any police station, or in any other similar place
authorised generally or specially by the Minister.

Use of lethal weapons in effecting arrests

 75.—(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written law, it shall be lawful for any police officer in order —

       (a) to effect the arrest of any person liable to detention under
            any order made under section 8;

       (b) to effect the arrest of any person liable to arrest and
            detention under section 74(1) or (2);

       (c) to effect the arrest of any person whom he has, in all the
            circumstances of the case, reasonable grounds for
            suspecting to have committed an offence under this Act
            or under any provision of any written law for the time
            being specified in the First Schedule;

       (d) to overcome forcible resistance offered by any person to
            such arrest; or

       (e) to prevent the escape from arrest or the rescue of any
            person arrested as aforesaid,

to use such force as, in the circumstances of the case, may be
reasonably necessary, which force may extend to the use of lethal
weapons.

 (2) Every person arrested for any of the offences referred to in
subsection (1) shall as soon as possible after his arrest be clearly
warned of his liability to be shot at if he endeavours to escape from
custody.

 (3) The powers conferred upon a police officer by subsection (1)
may be exercised by any member of the security forces, and by any
person performing the duties of a guard or watchman in a protected

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               58

place, and by any other person generally authorised in that behalf by
the Commissioner of Police.

 (4) Nothing in this section shall derogate from the right of private
defence contained in sections 96 to 106A, inclusive, of the Penal
Code 1871.

                                                                                                           [15/2019]

Admission of statements in evidence

 76.—(1) Where any person is charged with any offence under this
Act or under any written law for the time being specified in the
Second Schedule any statement, whether the statement amounts to a
confession or not or is oral or in writing, made at any time, whether
before or after that person is charged and whether in the course of a
police investigation or not and whether or not wholly or partly in
answer to questions, by that person to or in the hearing of any police
officer of or above the rank of sergeant and whether or not interpreted
to him by any other police officer or any other person concerned, or
not, in the arrest, shall notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
written law, be admissible at his trial in evidence and, if that person
tenders himself as a witness, any such statement may be used in
cross‑examination and for the purpose of impeaching his credit:

Provided that no such statement shall be admissible or used as
aforesaid —

       (a) if the making of the statement appears to the court to have
            been caused by any inducement, threat or promise having
            reference to the charge against that person, proceeding
            from a person in authority and sufficient in the opinion of
            the court to give that person grounds which would appear
            to him reasonable for supposing that by making it he
            would gain any advantage or avoid any evil of a temporal
            nature in reference to the proceedings against him; or

       (b) in the case of a statement made by such person after his
            arrest, unless the court is satisfied that a caution was
            administered to him in the following words or words to
            the like effect:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
59  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

                  “It is my duty to warn you that you are not obliged to
                  say anything or to answer any question, but anything
                  you say, whether in answer to a question or not, may
                  be given in evidence”:

Provided that a statement made by any person before there is time to
caution him shall not be rendered inadmissible in evidence merely
by reason of no such caution having been given if it has been given
as soon as possible.

 (2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any written law, a
person accused of an offence to which subsection (1) applies shall not
be bound to answer any questions relating to such case after any such
caution has been administered to him.

 (3) This section shall apply in relation to any person tried after
16 September 1963, whether or not the proceedings against such
person were instituted and whether or not the relevant statement was
made before that date.

Inspection of bankers’ books

 77. The Minister may, if he is satisfied that any evidence of the
commission of an offence under this Act or under any written law for
the time being specified in the Second Schedule is likely to be found
in any banker’s book, by order authorise any police officer to inspect
any such book, and a police officer so authorised may, at all
reasonable times, enter the bank specified in the order and inspect the
banker’s books kept therein, and may take copies of any entry in any
such book.

Disposal of property

 78.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the provisions of the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010 relating to the disposal of property the subject
of an offence shall apply to any article coming into the possession of a
police officer or any other person having any functions in connection
with the operation of this Act which such officer or person has
reasonable ground for believing to be evidence of the commission of
an offence under this Act; and in relation to any such article any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               60

reference therein to a police officer shall have effect as if it included a
reference to any such person.

 (2) Any article or material coming into the possession of a police
officer under section 66 may be disposed of in such manner as the
Minister may order.

 (3) Nothing in this section shall be taken to prejudice any right to
retain or dispose of property which may exist in law apart from this
section.

79. [Repealed by Act 26 of 2022 wef 12/06/2023]

Jurisdiction of District Court

 80. Without prejudice to the jurisdiction of the General Division of
the High Court, a District Court shall have jurisdiction to try any
offence under this Act, other than an offence punishable with death,
and to pass any sentence prescribed therefor not exceeding 5 years’
imprisonment or a fine of $5,000 or both.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Restriction on prosecution

 81. A prosecution for any offence under this Act punishable with
imprisonment for a term of 7 years or more shall not be instituted
except with the consent of the Public Prosecutor:

Provided that, subject to the provisions of the law for the time being
in force relating to criminal procedure —

        (a) a person charged with such an offence may be arrested, or
             a warrant for his arrest may be issued and executed, and
             any such person may be remanded in custody or on bail,
             notwithstanding that the consent of the Public Prosecutor
             to the institution of a prosecution for the offence has not
             been obtained, but the case shall not be further prosecuted
             until that consent has been obtained; and

        (b) when a person is brought before a court under this section
             before the Public Prosecutor has consented to the
             prosecution the charge shall be explained to him but he

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
61  Internal Security Act 1960                               2020 Ed.

    shall not be called upon to plead, and the provisions of
    such law shall be modified accordingly.

Publicity of orders

 82.—(1) When any order or regulation is made or direction or
instruction is given under this Act, the Minister or other authority
making such order or regulation or giving such direction or
instruction shall cause notice of its effect to be given as soon as
possible in such manner as he thinks necessary for bringing it to the
notice of all persons who in his opinion ought to have notice of it, and
such order, regulation, direction or instruction shall have effect as
soon as notice as aforesaid has been given, without publication in the
Gazette.

 (2) Without prejudice to any special provisions in this Act or in any
rules or regulations made thereunder, a notice to be served on any
person for the purposes of any section may be served by leaving it at,
or by sending it by post in a letter addressed to that person at, his last
or usual place of abode or place of business.

 (3) Any order or regulation made or any direction or instruction
given under this Act may at any time during its continuance be
cancelled by the person empowered to make such order or regulation
or to give such direction or instruction, but without prejudice to the
previous validity thereof or to anything done thereunder or to the
power of that person to make a fresh order or regulation or give a
fresh direction or instruction under such provisions.

Saving

 83. Nothing in this Act shall affect any other law relating to
criminal offences:

Provided that no person shall be punished twice for the same
offence.

Amendment, etc., of Schedules

 84. The Schedules to this Act may be added to, varied or amended
by resolution passed by Parliament.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Internal Security Act 1960                               62

                           FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                                Section 75(1)

          LAWS AGAINST WHICH SUSPECTED OFFENDERS
                       MAY BE FORCIBLY ARRESTED

1. The Corrosive and Explosive .  ... Sections 3, 4 and 5.
   Substances and Offensive
   Weapons Act 1958

2. The Penal Code 1871  ... ... Sections 435 and 436.

                        SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                         Sections 76(1) and 77

                                  SPECIFIED LAWS

1. The Corrosive and Explosive Substances and Offensive Weapons
   Act 1958 — Any offence under the Act.

2. The National Registration Act 1965 — Any offence under any regulations
   made under the Act.

3. The Railways Act 1905 — Any offence under any of the following sections:
   83, 86 and 87.

4. The Sedition Act 1948 — Any offence under the Act.

5. The Societies Act 1966 — Any offence under any of the following sections:
   14, 15 and 23.

6. Any abetment of or attempt to commit any offence specified in this
   Schedule.

                          THIRD SCHEDULE                           Section 8(3)

                              ESSENTIAL SERVICES
1. Water services.
2. Electricity services.
3. Public health services.
4. Fire services.
5. Prison services.
6. Postal services.
7. Telephone services.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
63                      Internal Security Act 1960           2020 Ed.

    THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

8. Telegraph services.

9. Radiocommunication services, including broadcasting and television
   services.

10. Port, dock and harbour services and undertakings.

11. Public transport services by land, sea or air.

12. Bulk distribution of fuel and lubricants.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
             INTERNAL SECURITY ACT 1960

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. M. Act 18 of 1960 — Internal Security Act, 1960

Commencement  : 1 August 1960

Application   : 16 September 1963 (except
                    sections 8(1) and (2))

Note: The Malaysian Internal Security Act 1960 (No. 18/60) was extended
        to Singapore on 16 September 1963 when Singapore became a
        component part of Malaysia — see the Modification of Laws (Internal
        Security and Public Order) (Singapore) Order, 1963
        (L.N. 231/1963 (G.N. Sp. No. S 4/1963)). The preambles to that Act
        are reproduced in this Act in their entirety.

2. L.N. 231/1963 (G.N. Sp. No. S 4/1963) — Modification of Laws (Internal
                                                         Security and Public Order)
                                                         (Singapore) Order, 1963

Commencement  : 16 September 1963

Note: This Order extended the Federation of Malaya Internal Security
        Act, 1960 (M. Act 18 of 1960) in part to Singapore, with
        modifications.

3. L.N. 271/1963 (G.N. Sp. No. S 17/1963) — Modification of Laws (Internal
                                                         Security and Public Order)
                                                         (Singapore) (No. 3)
                                                         Order, 1963

Commencement  : 16 September 1963

4. L.N. 284/1963 — Modification of Laws (Internal Security Act, 1960)
                          Order, 1963

Commencement  : 24 October 1963

5. M. Act 20 of 1964 — Internal Security (Amendment) Act, 1964

Commencement  : 30 July 1964

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                      ii

6. L.N. 335/1964 (G.N. Sp. S 174/1964) — Emergency (Internal Security and
                                                     Detention Orders) Regulations,
                                                     1964

Commencement          : 30 September 1964 (regulation 4)
                            20 October 1964 (except regulation 4)

7. L.N. 334/1964 (G.N. Sp. No. S 173/1964) — Modification of Laws
                                                             (Internal Security Act,
                                                             1960) Order, 1964

Commencement          : 15 October 1964

8. L.N. 69/1965 (G.N. Sp. No. S 30/1965) — Modification of Laws (Internal
                                                         Security Act, 1960)
                                                         (Amendment) Order, 1965

Commencement          : 15 October 1964

9. L.N. 110/1965 — Emergency (Internal Security and Detention Orders)
                          (Amendment) Regulations, 1965

Commencement          : 20 October 1964

10. 1970 Revised Edition — Internal Security Act (Chapter 115)

Operation             : 15 April 1971

11. Act 21 of 1973 — Statutes of the Republic of Singapore (Miscellaneous
                            Amendments) Act, 1973

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 16/1973

First Reading         : 7 March 1973

Second and Third Readings : 20 March 1973

Commencement          : 6 April 1973 (section 2 read with the
                            Schedule)

12. 1985 Revised Edition — Internal Security Act (Chapter 143)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

13. Act 2 of 1989 — Internal Security (Amendment) Act 1989

Bill                  : 10/1989

First Reading         : 16 January 1989

Second Reading        : 25 January 1989

Notice of Amendments  : 25 January 1989

Third Reading         : 25 January 1989

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                      iii

Commencement          : 30 January 1989

14. Act 11 of 1991 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1991
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with item (13) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 4/1991

First Reading         : 3 January 1991

Second Reading        : 14 January 1991

Notice of Amendments  : 14 January 1991

Third Reading         : 14 January 1991

Commencement          : 30 November 1991 (section 2 read
                            with item (13) of the Schedule)

15. Act 2 of 1994 — Judicial Committee (Repeal) Act 1994
     (Amendments made by section 3 read with item (3) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 2/1994

First Reading         : 17 January 1994

Second and Third Readings : 23 February 1994

Commencement          : 8 April 1994 (section 3 read with
                            item (3) of the Schedule)

16. Act 42 of 2005 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2005
     (Amendments made by section 6 read with item (9) of the Fourth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 30/2005

First Reading         : 17 October 2005

Second and Third Readings : 21 November 2005

Commencement          : 1 January 2006 (section 6 read with
                            item (9) of the Fourth Schedule)

17. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 53 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 11/2010

First Reading         : 26 April 2010

Second Reading        : 18 May 2010

Third Reading         : 19 May 2010

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                      iv

Commencement          : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                            item 53 of the Sixth Schedule)

18. Act 41 of 2017 — Infrastructure Protection Act 2017
     (Amendments made by section 86(3) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2017

First Reading         : 11 September 2017

Second and Third Readings : 2 October 2017

Commencement          : 18 December 2018 (section 86(3))

19. Act 15 of 2019 — Criminal Law Reform Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 177 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 6/2019

First Reading         : 11 February 2019

Second Reading        : 6 May 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 6 May 2019

Third Reading         : 6 May 2019

Commencement          : 1 January 2020 (section 177)

20. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 76 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 76 of the Schedule)

21. 2020 Revised Edition — Internal Security Act 1960

Operation             : 31 December 2021

22. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by)

Bill                  : 18/2021

First Reading         : 26 July 2021

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
               v

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement   : 1 April 2022

23. Act 26 of 2022 — Registration of Criminals (Amendment) Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 19/2022

First Reading  : 1 August 2022

Second and Third Readings : 12 September 2022

Commencement   : 12 June 2023

24. Act 3 of 2021 — Guns, Explosives and Weapons Control Act 2021

Bill           : 44/2020

First Reading  : 3 November 2020

Second and Third Readings : 5 January 2021

Commencement   : 1 July 2025

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
