THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                LAND SURVEYORS ACT 1991

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
                                                                   2020 Ed.

         Land Surveyors Act 1991

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Act not to apply to Government, etc.
     2.
     3.

                                       PART 2

                        LAND SURVEYORS BOARD

4. Establishment of Land Surveyors Board
5. Meetings and quorum of Board
6. Common seal of Board
7. Functions of Board and committees
8. Registrar, officers and employees
9. Registers

                                        PART 3

                    PRIVILEGES OF LAND SURVEYORS

10. Illegal practice
11. Saving for winding up of corporation or limited liability

         partnership

                                        PART 4

                       REGISTRATION OF SURVEYORS

12. Persons entitled to be registered as registered surveyors
13. Application for registration
14. Certificate of registration

                                                   1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                     2

          PART 5

          PRACTISING CERTIFICATES

Section
   15. Practising certificates
   16. Cancellation of practising certificates

                                        PART 6

           MULTIDISCIPLINE AND CORPORATE PRACTICE

17. Licence for multidiscipline and corporate practice
18. Conditions of licence
19. Change in composition of board of directors, members, etc.
20. Application of Companies Act 1967
21. Liability insurance
22. Relationship between client and licensed corporation or licensed

         limited liability partnership
23. Professional responsibility of supervising surveyor

                                        PART 7

          DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS AND REVOCATION
                                   OF LICENCES

24. Appointment of Investigation Committees
25. Cancellation of registration or suspension from practice
26. Removal from registers
27. Revocation of licence
28. Appeals
29. Reinstatement of registration
30. Powers to require attendance of witnesses, etc.
31. Board may appoint legal counsel
32. Costs and expenses

                                        PART 8

                                      GENERAL

33. Application of fees, etc., received by Board
34. Penalty for wilful falsification of register and for wrongfully

         procuring registration, etc.
35. Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
36. No action or proceedings in absence of bad faith or malice
37. Exemption

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
3             Land Surveyors Act 1991                     2020 Ed.

Section
   38. Rules

An Act to establish the Land Surveyors Board, to provide for the
  registration of land surveyors, to regulate the qualifications and
  practice of land surveyors and to regulate corporations, partnerships
  and limited liability partnerships which supply survey services in
  Singapore.

                                                             [30 August 1991]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Land Surveyors Act 1991.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “allied professional” means —
              (a) an architect who is registered under the Architects
                   Act 1991; or
              (b) a professional engineer who is registered under the
                   Professional Engineers Act 1991;
      “authorised surveyor” means a land surveyor who is employed
         by the Authority, whether or not registered under section 12;

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

      “Authority” means the Singapore Land Authority established
         under the Singapore Land Authority Act 2001;

      “Board” means the Land Surveyors Board established under
         section 4;

      “cadastral survey” means any survey relating to the recording of
         land boundaries, subdivision lines, buildings and related
         details;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.     Land Surveyors Act 1991                                4

“certificate of registration” means a certificate of registration
   issued under section 14;

“Chief Surveyor” means the Chief Surveyor appointed under
   section 3(1) of the Boundaries and Survey Maps Act 1998;

“foreign competent authority”, in relation to any country or
   territory outside Singapore, means the regulatory body or its
   authorised agency in that country or territory having the
   function of regulating the practice of surveying and
   registering or licensing persons in connection with the
   practice of surveying in that country or territory;

                                                                       [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

“foreign land surveyor”, in relation to a country or territory
   outside Singapore, means any person who is permitted to
   practise as a land surveyor in that country or territory under
   the law of that country or territory;

                                                                       [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

“Investigation Committee” means an Investigation Committee
   appointed under section 24(1);

“licence” means a licence to supply survey services in Singapore
   granted under section 17;

“licensed”, in relation to a corporation, partnership or limited
   liability partnership, means a corporation, partnership or
   limited liability partnership which has in force a licence;

“limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by
   section 4(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

“manager” —

          (a) in relation to a corporation or partnership, means the
               principal executive officer of the corporation or
               partnership for the time being by whatever name
               called and whether or not he or she is a director or
               partner thereof; and

          (b) in relation to a limited liability partnership, has the
               meaning given by section 2(1) of the Limited
               Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
5  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   2020 Ed.

   “mutual recognition arrangement” means —

   (a) a bilateral agreement or arrangement between
        Singapore and any other country or territory;

   (b) a bilateral agreement or arrangement between the
        Board and a foreign competent authority of any other
        country or territory;

   (c) a multilateral agreement or arrangement between
       Singapore and 2 or more other countries or
       territories; or

   (d) a multilateral agreement or arrangement between the
        Board and the foreign competent authorities of 2 or
        more other countries or territories,

   for the mutual recognition of —

   (e) registered surveyors, and the survey work that may
       be performed by registered surveyors, in each such
       country or territory; and

           (f) foreign land surveyors of each such country or
                territory, and the survey work that may be
                performed by registered foreign surveyors of each
                such country or territory, in Singapore;

                                                                          [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

   “nominee”, in relation to any person, means a person who is
      accustomed or under an obligation (whether formal or
      informal) to act in accordance with the directions,
      instructions or wishes of the firstmentioned person, except
      that a person is not to be regarded as a nominee of another
      person by reason only that the person acts on advice given by
      that other person in a professional capacity;

   “practising certificate” means —

   (a) in relation to a registered surveyor — an annual
        practising certificate issued under section 15
        authorising him or her to engage in survey work in
        Singapore;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   6

          (b) in relation to an allied professional who is an
               architect registered under the Architects
               Act 1991 — a practising certificate issued under
               section 18 of that Act; and

          (c) in relation to an allied professional who is a
              professional engineer registered under the
              Professional Engineers Act 1991 — a practising
              certificate issued under section 28 of that Act;

“president” means the president of the Board;

“register of licensees” means the annual register of licensed
   corporations, partnerships and limited liability partnerships
   kept by the Board under section 9(1)(c);

“register of practitioners” means the annual register of
   practitioners kept by the Board under section 9(1)(b);

“register of surveyors” means the register of land surveyors kept
   by the Board under section 9(1)(a);

                                                                       [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

“registered foreign surveyor” means a person registered as a
   foreign land surveyor under section 12A;

                                                                       [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

“registered surveyor” means a person registered as a land
   surveyor under section 12;

“Registrar” means the Registrar of the Board, and includes any
   individual acting in that capacity;

“survey” means the act or process of —

          (a) determining the form, contour, position, area, height,
               depth or any other particulars of —

          (i) the earth’s surface, whether of land or water; or

          (ii) any natural or artificial features on, below or
               above any part of the earth’s surface; or

          (b) planning the position or the boundary lines of any
               part of the earth’s surface, or of any natural or
               artificial features referred to in paragraph (a)(ii),

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
7  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   2020 Ed.

   and includes the act or process of making or obtaining any
   plan therefrom;

   “survey services” means the supply for gain or reward of any
      services, or any plan, certificate or other document, relating
      to any survey;

   “survey work” means any work which is part of or related to a
      survey;

   “unlimited corporation” means a corporation formed on the
      principle of having no limit placed on the liability of its
      members.

                                                             [5/2018]

Act not to apply to Government, etc.

 3.—(1) Nothing in this Act applies to anything done or omitted to
be done by the Government.

 (2) This Act is not to be construed as requiring any public authority
which supplies survey services in Singapore under the provisions of
any written law to obtain a licence.

 (3) In subsection (2), “public authority” means any body
established by or under any written law and exercising powers
vested therein by written law for a public purpose.

                                    PART 2

                      LAND SURVEYORS BOARD

Establishment of Land Surveyors Board

 4.—(1) A body called the Land Surveyors Board is established,
which is a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common
seal, with power, subject to the provisions of this Act —

       (a) to sue and be sued in its corporate name;

       (b) to acquire and dispose of property, both movable and
            immovable; and

       (c) to do and perform any other acts that bodies corporate may
            by law perform.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.   Land Surveyors Act 1991                                  8

 (2) The Board consists of the following members to be appointed
by the Minister:

(a) a president who is to be appointed from among the
     registered surveyors;

(b) 3 registered surveyors selected from a list of at least
     4 registered surveyors submitted by the Singapore Institute
     of Surveyors and Valuers;

          (c) not more than 3 other registered surveyors as the Minister
              may determine.

 (3) A member of the Board is to be appointed for a term not
exceeding 2 years but may be re‑appointed, and may at any time be
removed from office by the Minister.

 (4) A person is not qualified to be appointed as a member of the
Board under subsection (2) if the person —

(a) is not a citizen or a permanent resident of Singapore;

(b) is an undischarged bankrupt or has made any arrangement
     or composition with his or her creditors;

          (c) has been convicted of any offence involving fraud,
              dishonesty or moral turpitude, or of any other offence
              implying a defect in character which makes him or her
              unfit for the surveying profession; or

(d) has a mental disorder and is incapable of managing himself
     or herself or his or her affairs, or is incapacitated by
     physical illness.

 (5) The office of any appointed member of the Board becomes
vacant if the member —

(a) dies;

(b) resigns or is removed from office; or

          (c) becomes in any manner disqualified for office within the
              meaning of subsection (4).

 (6) Any vacancy arising under subsection (5) must, as soon as
practicable, be filled in the manner in which the appointment to the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
9  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   2020 Ed.

vacant office was made; and every person so appointed holds office
for the remainder of the term for which his or her predecessor was
appointed.

 (7) The powers of the Board are not affected by any vacancy in its
membership.

 (8) Any question as to whether a person has ceased to be a member
of the Board appointed under subsection (2) is to be decided by the
Board whose decision is final.

Meetings and quorum of Board

 5.—(1) The Board is to meet at such times and such places as the
president may appoint.

 (2) At any meeting of the Board, 3 members form a quorum and no
business may be transacted at any meeting unless a quorum is present.

 (3) At any meeting of the Board, the president presides and in the
president’s absence the members present must elect from among
themselves one member to preside over the meeting.

 (4) The member presiding at any meeting of the Board has a
deliberative vote and, in the case of an equality of votes, also has a
casting vote.

 (5) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018, the Board may determine its own procedure.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Common seal of Board

 6.—(1) The common seal of the Board must bear such device as the
Board may approve and the seal may be broken, changed, altered or
made anew by the Board as it thinks fit.

 (2) The common seal must be kept in the custody of the president
and must be authenticated by the president or other member acting in
the president’s absence.

 (3) Any document purporting to be sealed and authenticated under
subsection (2) is, until the contrary is proved, deemed to be validly
executed.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   10

Functions of Board and committees

7.—(1) The functions of the Board are —

(a) to keep and maintain a register of surveyors, an annual
     register of practitioners and an annual register of licensees;

(b) to hold, or arrange for the holding of, any examinations and
     professional interviews that the Board considers necessary
     for the purpose of enabling persons to qualify for
     registration under this Act;

          (c) to approve or reject applications for registration under
              section 12 or to approve any such applications subject to
              any restrictions that it thinks fit to impose;

(d) to establish, maintain and develop the standard of
     professional conduct and ethics of the surveying
     profession;

          (e) to promote learning and education in connection with the
              profession of surveying;

          (f) to hear and determine disputes relating to professional
              conduct or ethics of registered surveyors or licensed
              corporations, partnerships or limited liability partnerships;

(g) to appoint arbitrators for the purpose of hearing and
     determining disputes between registered surveyors,
     licensed corporations, partnerships or limited liability
     partnerships and other persons;

 (h) to license corporations, partnerships and limited liability
      partnerships which supply survey services in Singapore;

                                                                       [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

(ha) to negotiate and implement any mutual recognition
      arrangement; and

                                                                       [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

  (i) generally to do all acts, matters and things that are
      necessary to be carried out under the provisions of this Act.

 (2) The Board may appoint such committees from among its
members or other persons (whether or not they are registered
surveyors) as it thinks fit to assist or advise the Board on such matters

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
11  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   2020 Ed.

arising out of its functions under this Act as are referred to them by
the Board.

Registrar, officers and employees

 8.—(1) There must be a chief executive of the Board called the
Registrar of the Board, whose appointment and removal must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Board may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint an individual to act temporarily as the Registrar
during any period, or during all periods, when the Registrar —

       (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (3) In addition to duties under the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, the Registrar must —

       (a) be under the general direction of the Board;

       (b) sign all certificates of registration, practising certificates
            and licences; and

       (c) record all entries of registration, cancellations and
            reinstatements in the register of surveyors, annual
            register of practitioners and annual register of licensees.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (4) The Registrar must —

       (a) attend all meetings of the Board and record the proceedings
            of those meetings; and

       (b) conduct the correspondence and deal with any matters that
            the president or the Board may assign to the Registrar.

 (5) The Registrar must —

       (a) as soon as possible after 1 January each year, prepare and
            publish in the Gazette a list of the names of all registered
            surveyors who have in force a practising certificate and the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   12

          principal business address at which the person practises in
          Singapore; and

(b) from time to time publish in the Gazette such
     supplementary lists of the names of persons added to or
     removed from the register of practitioners as may be
     required.

 (6) The Board may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint and employ, on such terms and conditions as it may
determine, such other officers, employees, consultants and agents as
may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Registers

 9.—(1) The Board must keep and maintain —

       (a) a register of surveyors containing the names of all persons
            registered under section 12, the qualifications by virtue of
            which they are so registered and any other particulars in
            relation thereto that the Board may determine;

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

       (b) an annual register of practitioners containing the
            particulars as contained in the declaration delivered
            under section 15(3)(a); and

       (c) an annual register of licensees containing the names of all
            licensed corporations, partnerships and limited liability
            partnerships and any other particulars in relation thereto
            that the Board may determine.

 (2) Any person may, on payment of the prescribed fee, inspect any
register mentioned in subsection (1) at any time during the office
hours of the Board.

 (3) A copy of any entry in any register kept and maintained under
this section purporting to be certified by the Registrar as a true copy
of that entry is in all proceedings prima facie evidence of the matters
specified in the copy.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
13                Land Surveyors Act 1991                     2020 Ed.

                  PART 3

    PRIVILEGES OF LAND SURVEYORS

Illegal practice

 10.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person must not
certify to the correctness or accuracy of any survey unless the person
is an authorised surveyor or a registered surveyor who has in force a
practising certificate.

(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person must not —

    (a) use or cause or permit to be used the abbreviation “RS” as a
         title before his or her name, or any written words, titles or
         initials or any abbreviation thereof which are intended to
         cause or may reasonably cause any person to believe that
         the person using them is authorised to supply survey
         services in Singapore; or

                                                                        [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

    (b) advertise or hold himself, herself or itself out or conduct
         himself, herself or itself in any way or by any means as a
         person authorised to supply survey services in Singapore,

unless at the time of so doing the person is a registered surveyor who
has in force a practising certificate, or is a licensed corporation, a
licensed partnership, a licensed limited liability partnership or a
partnership consisting wholly of registered surveyors.

 (3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person is not entitled to
recover in any court any charge, fee or remuneration for any survey
services rendered in Singapore, unless the person rendering such
services is —

    (a) a registered surveyor who has in force a practising
         certificate and is doing so on the person’s own account
         or as a partner in a licensed partnership, a licensed limited
         liability partnership or a partnership consisting wholly of
         registered surveyors;

    (b) an allied professional and is doing so only by reason of
         being a partner in a licensed partnership or a licensed
         limited liability partnership; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   14

          (c) a licensed corporation or a licensed limited liability
              partnership.

 (4) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person must not perform
or execute any survey or engage in any survey work in Singapore
unless the person is —

(a) a registered surveyor who has in force a practising
     certificate;

(b) an authorised surveyor; or

          (c) under the direction or supervision of any of the persons
              mentioned in paragraphs (a) and (b).

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (2) or (4) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

Saving for winding up of corporation or limited liability
partnership

 11. Nothing in section 10(2)(a) prevents a corporation or limited
liability partnership that ceases to have in force a licence from
carrying on any activity necessary to the winding up of the
corporation or limited liability partnership.

                                    PART 4

                   REGISTRATION OF SURVEYORS

Persons entitled to be registered as registered surveyors

 12.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, every person who is
21 years of age and above is, on payment of the prescribed fee,
entitled to be registered as a registered surveyor under this Act if —

       (a) he or she satisfies the Board that he or she has ––

               (i) obtained a certificate of competency issued by the
                   Board after passing the prescribed examination;

              (ii) passed a professional examination recognised by the
                   Board and passed such further examination and had

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
15  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   2020 Ed.

    such practical experience in surveying in Singapore
    as the Board may prescribe; or

    (iii) had such proper training in surveying recognised by
          the Board and passed such other examination as the
          Board may require; and

       (b) he or she has passed a professional interview conducted by
            the Board to determine whether he or she has the aptitude
            and knowledge to effectively perform or engage in survey
            work in Singapore.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

 (2) Despite subsection (1), the Board may refuse to register any
person who is not, in the opinion of the Board, of good character and
reputation.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

Application for registration

 13. Every application for registration under this Act must be made
to the Board in such form and manner as may be prescribed.

Certificate of registration

 14. The Board must issue to each registered surveyor, upon
application by the surveyor in the prescribed form and on payment
of the prescribed fee, a certificate of registration.

                                    PART 5

                     PRACTISING CERTIFICATES

Practising certificates

 15.—(1) Where a registered surveyor desires to engage in survey
work in Singapore after 31 December of any year, he or she must, not
later than 1 December of that year, apply in the prescribed form and
manner for a practising certificate authorising him or her to engage in
such survey work in the succeeding year.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), where a registered surveyor applies for a
practising certificate for the first time after registration under
section 12, the application must be in the prescribed form and may

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   16

be made at any time during the year, and the registered surveyor may
be issued a practising certificate for the remainder of the year in
which the application is made.

 (3) Any application by a registered surveyor under this section must
be addressed to the Board and be accompanied by —

(a) a written declaration stating —

          (i) his or her full name;

          (ii) the name under which he or she practises if different
               from his or her own name, or the name of the
               corporation, partnership or limited liability
               partnership employing him or her; and

          (iii) the principal and any other address or addresses at
                which he or she practises in Singapore;

(b) such evidence as the Board may require that the applicant
     has complied with or is exempt from the rules relating to —

          (i) insurance against professional liability; and

          (ii) continuing professional development; and

          (c) the prescribed fee,

and the Board must, subject to subsection (4), thereupon issue to the
registered surveyor a practising certificate.

(4) The Board may refuse to issue a practising certificate if —

(a) the applicant is an undischarged bankrupt;

(b) the applicant has entered into a composition with his or her
     creditors or a deed of arrangement for the benefit of his or
     her creditors;

          (c) the applicant does not intend to practise either on his or her
              own account or in partnership, or is not or not about to be
              employed by any person lawfully supplying survey
              services in Singapore;

(d) the declaration under subsection (3)(a) contains a
     statement that to its knowledge is false in a material
     particular; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
17  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   2020 Ed.

    (e) the conduct of the applicant provides reasonable grounds
        for believing that he or she will not engage in survey work
        in Singapore in accordance with the written law and with
        honesty and integrity.

 (5) Any registered surveyor (not being a registered surveyor who is
applying for a practising certificate for the first time) who fails to
apply for a practising certificate in the manner and within the period
laid down in subsection (1) may, on the making of an application in
such form and on payment of such additional fee as may be
prescribed, be issued a practising certificate for —

    (a) the succeeding year if the application is made during the
         month of December of any year; or

    (b) the remainder of the year if the application is made on or
         after 1 January of that year.

 (6) Subject to subsection (9), a practising certificate is, unless
earlier cancelled, in force from the date of its issue until 31 December
of the year in respect of which it is issued.

 (7) A practising certificate must specify the address of the principal
place of practice and all other places of practice of the registered
surveyor in respect of whom the practising certificate was issued.

 (8) Any change in that address must be notified by the registered
surveyor concerned to the Registrar within 2 weeks of the change and
an endorsement of the change on the practising certificate must be
obtained from the Registrar.

 (9) Where the registration of a registered surveyor is cancelled
under section 25, the practising certificate (if any) of that registered
surveyor for the time being in force expires immediately and the
Registrar must enter the date of the expiry in the register of
practitioners.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

 (10) Any person whose application for a practising certificate has
been refused by the Board may, within 30 days after being notified of
the refusal, appeal to the General Division of the High Court whose
decision is final.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   18

Cancellation of practising certificates

 16.—(1) The Board may cancel a practising certificate of any
registered surveyor on any ground specified in section 15(4) which
applies to the registered surveyor, whether or not that ground existed
at the time when the practising certificate was issued.

 (2) The Board must not cancel any practising certificate under
subsection (1) unless an opportunity of being heard either personally
or by counsel has been given to the person concerned.

 (3) Any person whose practising certificate has been cancelled by
the Board under this section may, within 30 days after being notified
of the cancellation, appeal to the General Division of the High Court
whose decision is final.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

                                    PART 6

       MULTIDISCIPLINE AND CORPORATE PRACTICE

Licence for multidiscipline and corporate practice

 17.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board may grant
a licence to any limited corporation to supply survey services in
Singapore if —

       (a) the memorandum of association of the corporation
            provides that a primary object of the corporation is to
            supply survey services;

       (b) it has a paid-up capital of at least $1 million;

       (c) the articles of association of the corporation provide that a
            prescribed number or proportion of the directors of the
            corporation must be registered surveyors or allied
            professionals, who each has in force a practising
            certificate;

       (d) the business of the corporation, so far as it relates to survey
            work in Singapore, will be under the control and
            management of a director of the corporation who —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
19  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   2020 Ed.

    (i) is a registered surveyor who has in force a practising
        certificate; and

    (ii) is authorised under a resolution of the board of
         directors of the corporation to make all final survey
         decisions on behalf of the corporation with respect to
         the requirements of this Act or any other law relating
         to the supply of survey services by the corporation;
         and

    (e) the corporation is insured against professional liability in
        accordance with section 21 and the rules made under
        section 38.

 (2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board may grant a
licence to any unlimited corporation to supply survey services in
Singapore if —

    (a) the memorandum of association of the corporation
         provides that a primary object of the corporation is to
         supply survey services;

    (b) the articles of association of the corporation provide that —

    (i) a person must not be a director of the corporation
        unless the person is either a registered surveyor or an
        allied professional, who has in force a practising
        certificate; and

    (ii) a person must not be registered as a member of the
         corporation unless the person is —

    (A) a registered surveyor or an allied professional,
         or a nominee of such a person; and

    (B) a director, a manager or an employee of the
         corporation; and

    (c) the business of the corporation, so far as it relates to survey
        work in Singapore, will be under the control and
        management of a director of the corporation who —

    (i) is a registered surveyor who has in force a practising
        certificate;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   20

          (ii) is a member, or a registered owner of at least one
               share, of the corporation; and

          (iii) is authorised under a resolution of the board of
                directors of the corporation to make all final survey
                decisions on behalf of the corporation with respect to
                the requirements of this Act or any other law relating
                to the supply of survey services by the corporation.

 (3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board may grant a
licence to any partnership not consisting wholly of registered
surveyors to supply survey services in Singapore if —

(a) the partnership is one in which only registered surveyors
     and allied professionals (who each has in force a practising
     certificate) have a beneficial interest in the capital assets
     and profits of the partnership; and

(b) the business of the partnership, so far as it relates to survey
     work in Singapore, will be under the control and
     management of a partner who is a registered surveyor
     and has in force a practising certificate.

 (4) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board may grant a
licence to any limited liability partnership to supply survey services
in Singapore if —

(a) the statement lodged by the partners of the limited liability
     partnership with the Registrar of Limited Liability
     Partnerships under section 19(1) of the Limited Liability
     Partnerships Act 2005 provides that a primary nature of the
     business of the limited liability partnership is to supply
     survey services in Singapore;

(b) the partners in the limited liability partnership consist only
     of persons who satisfy any requirements that the Board
     may, with the approval of the Minister, prescribe;

          (c) at least one of the partners of the limited liability
              partnership is a registered surveyor who has in force a
              practising certificate;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
21  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   2020 Ed.

    (d) the business of the limited liability partnership, so far as it
         relates to survey services in Singapore, will be under the
         control and management of a partner who —

    (i) is a registered surveyor who has in force a practising
        certificate; and

    (ii) is authorised under a resolution of the partners of the
         limited liability partnership to make all final survey
         decisions on behalf of the limited liability
         partnership with respect to the requirements of this
         Act, the rules or any other law relating to the supply
         of survey services by the limited liability
         partnership; and

    (e) the limited liability partnership is insured against
        professional liability in accordance with section 21 and
        the rules made under section 38.

 (5) Any application for a licence under this section must be in such
form and be made in such manner as may be prescribed.

 (6) The Board may refuse to grant a licence under this section to
any corporation (whether unlimited or not), partnership or limited
liability partnership if, in the opinion of the Board, the past conduct of
any director, manager or employee of the corporation or any partner,
manager or employee of the partnership or limited liability
partnership provides reasonable grounds for believing that the
corporation, partnership or limited liability partnership (as the case
may be) will not supply survey services in accordance with any
written law and with honesty and integrity.

 (7) Every licence granted under this section is, unless earlier
revoked, valid for such period as may be specified in the licence.

 (8) Any person whose application for a licence has been refused by
the Board may, within 30 days after being notified of the refusal,
appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (9) In subsection (1), “prescribed number or proportion of the
directors” means —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   22

(a) a majority of the directors, where no number or proportion
     is specified under paragraph (b); or

(b) such number or proportion of the directors as the Minister
     may, by notification in the Gazette, specify for the
     purposes of subsection (1).

Conditions of licence

 18.—(1) It is a condition of every licence granted to any
corporation, partnership or limited liability partnership that the
corporation, partnership or limited liability partnership (as the case
may be) must supply survey services in Singapore only under the
control and management of a registered surveyor who has in force a
practising certificate and who is —

       (a) in the case of a limited corporation — a director or an
            employee of the corporation;

       (b) in the case of an unlimited corporation which has a share
            capital — either a director or an employee of the
            corporation who is a registered owner of at least one
            share of the corporation;

       (c) in the case of an unlimited corporation which does not have
            any share capital — either a director or an employee of the
            corporation who is a member of the corporation;

       (d) in the case of a limited liability partnership — a partner or
            an employee of the limited liability partnership; or

       (e) in the case of a partnership — a partner of the partnership.

 (2) It is a condition of every licence granted to any corporation
(other than an unlimited corporation) or to any limited liability
partnership that the corporation or limited liability partnership must
not supply survey services in Singapore unless the corporation or
limited liability partnership is insured in respect of professional
liability in accordance with section 21 and the rules made under
section 38.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
23  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   2020 Ed.

(3) Without affecting subsections (1) and (2), the Board may —

    (a) grant a licence subject to such other conditions as it thinks
         fit; and

    (b) at any time vary any existing conditions (other than those
         specified in subsections (1) and (2)) of such a licence or
         impose additional conditions thereto.

 (4) Where a licence is granted by the Board to a corporation,
partnership or limited liability partnership subject to conditions (other
than those specified in subsections (1) and (2)), the corporation,
partnership or limited liability partnership may, if aggrieved by the
decision of the Board, appeal in the prescribed manner to the Minister
whose decision is final.

Change in composition of board of directors, members, etc.

 19.—(1) Any licensed corporation must, within 30 days of the
occurrence of —

       (a) any alteration of its memorandum or articles of association
            to remove the restrictions, limitations or prohibitions of the
            kind specified in section 17(1), (2) or (4), whichever is
            applicable;

       (b) any change in the composition of its board of directors,
            members or shareholders; or

       (c) any revocation of any resolution passed by the board of
            directors under section 17(1)(d)(ii) or (2)(c)(iii),

provide the Board a true written report giving full particulars of the
alteration, change or revocation, as the case may be.

 (2) Any licensed partnership must, within 30 days of the occurrence
of any change in the composition of its members, provide the Board a
true written report giving full particulars of the change.

 (3) Any licensed limited liability partnership must, within 30 days
of the occurrence of any change in the composition of its partners,
provide the Board a true written report giving full particulars of the
change.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   24

Application of Companies Act 1967

 20.—(1) Sections 162, 163 and 197 of the Companies Act 1967
apply to a licensed corporation which is an exempt private company
subject to the modification that any reference in those sections to an
exempt private company does not include a reference to the licensed
corporation.

                                                                                                           [36/2014]

 (2) Every such licensed corporation must —

(a) comply with the prohibitions in sections 162 and 163 of the
     Companies Act 1967 as if it were not an exempt private
     company; and

       (b) forward annually to the Registrar of Companies, together
            with the annual return required by section 197 of the
            Companies Act 1967, any copies of documents that are
            required to be included in the annual return and any
            certificates and particulars in accordance with the
            prescribed form mentioned in section 197(2) of that Act
            as if it were not an exempt private company.

                                                                                                           [36/2014]

 (3) In this section, “exempt private company” has the meaning
given by the Companies Act 1967.

Liability insurance

 21. Every licensed corporation which is not an unlimited
corporation and every licensed limited liability partnership must be
insured against liability for any breach of professional duty arising
out of the conduct of its business of supplying survey services as a
direct result of any negligent act, error or omission committed by —

       (a) in the case of a corporation — the corporation or its
            directors, managers, secretaries or employees; or

       (b) in the case of a limited liability partnership — the
            partnership or its partners, managers or employees.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
25  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   2020 Ed.

Relationship between client and licensed corporation or
licensed limited liability partnership

 22. A licensed corporation or a licensed limited liability partnership
has the same rights and is subject to the same obligations in respect of
fiduciary, confidential and ethical relationships with each client of the
corporation or limited liability partnership (as the case may be) that
exist at law between a registered surveyor and his or her client.

Professional responsibility of supervising surveyor

 23. A registered surveyor who has the control and management of
the business of a licensed corporation, licensed partnership or
licensed limited liability partnership relating to the supply of
survey services in Singapore is subject to the same standards of
professional conduct and competence in respect of the business as if
the survey services were personally supplied by the registered
surveyor.

                                    PART 7

      DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS AND REVOCATION
                               OF LICENCES

Appointment of Investigation Committees

 24.—(1) Without limiting section 7(2), the Board may appoint one
or more Investigation Committees, consisting of such number of
members (which may include members of the Board) as the Board
may determine, for the purpose of investigating any complaint
against a registered surveyor or a licensed corporation, partnership or
limited liability partnership.

 (2) An Investigation Committee must, after investigating any
complaint, report to the Board on the matter and the report must,
among other things, deal with the question of the necessity or
otherwise of a hearing by the Board under section 25 or 27.

 (3) An Investigation Committee must meet from time to time for
the despatch of business and, subject to the provisions of this Act,
may regulate its own procedure.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   26

 (4) Any member of the Board who is a member of an Investigation
Committee investigating any complaint against a registered surveyor
or a licensed corporation, partnership or limited liability
partnership —

(a) must not take part in any deliberation of the Board under
     section 25 or 27 (as the case may be) with respect to that
     registered surveyor, corporation, partnership or limited
     liability partnership; and

(b) must be disregarded for the purpose of constituting a
     quorum of the Board for such deliberation or decision.

Cancellation of registration or suspension from practice

 25.—(1) Subject to this section, the Board may by order cancel the
registration of any registered surveyor or suspend him or her from
practice for a period not exceeding 12 months under any of the
following circumstances:

       (a) if he or she is convicted of any offence involving fraud,
            dishonesty or moral turpitude;

       (b) if his or her registration under section 12 or practising
            certificate was obtained by fraud or misrepresentation;

       (c) if his or her qualification for registration under section 12
            has been withdrawn or cancelled by the authority through
            which it was acquired or by which it was awarded;

       (d) if he or she has been guilty of any improper conduct that
            renders him or her, in the opinion of the Board, unfit to be a
            registered surveyor;

       (e) if it appears to the Board that he or she has contravened any
            provision of the prescribed code of professional conduct
            and ethics;

        (f) if it appears to the Board that he or she is no longer in a
            position to carry out the duties of a registered surveyor
            effectively;

       (g) if it appears to the Board that the registered surveyor, while
            being a director, manager, or an employee of a corporation,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
27  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   2020 Ed.

    or a partner, manager or an employee of a partnership or
    limited liability partnership, had failed to take reasonable
    steps to prevent the corporation, partnership or limited
    liability partnership from acting in a manner (other than as
    described in section 27(1)(f)) which would warrant the
    Board revoking any licence granted to the corporation,
    partnership or limited liability partnership or imposing a
    penalty under section 27;

    (h) if he or she has been adjudicated a bankrupt;

    (i) if he or she has been convicted of any offence under this
        Act;

    (j) if he or she refuses or fails to comply with any order of the
        Board made under subsection (2)(a) or (c);

    (k) if he or she refuses or fails to pay the cost of any correction
        to his or her cadastral survey within 14 days of the receipt
        of a statement issued to him or her under section 16(4) of
        the Boundaries and Survey Maps Act 1998.

 (2) The Board may, in any case in which it considers that no cause
of sufficient gravity for cancellation of registration or suspension
from practice exists, exercise one or more of the following powers:

    (a) by order impose on the registered surveyor a penalty not
         exceeding $20,000;

                                                                        [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

    (b) by writing under the hand of the president censure the
         registered surveyor;

    (c) order the registered surveyor to pay the cost of any
        correction to his or her cadastral survey incurred by the
        Chief Surveyor.

 (3) The Board must not exercise its powers under subsection (1) or
(2) unless —

    (a) an opportunity of being heard either personally or by
         counsel has been given to the registered surveyor against
         whom the Board intends to exercise its powers; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   28

(b) there has been a hearing at which at least 3 members of the
     Board are present.

 (4) Every penalty imposed by the Board under subsection (2)(a) is
recoverable as a debt due to the Board.

 (4A) All penalties collected by the Board under subsection (2)(a)
must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

 (5) While any order of suspension from practice made under this
section remains in force, the person concerned is not for the purposes
of this Act to be regarded as having in force a practising certificate,
but immediately on the expiry or annulment of such order, his or her
privileges as a registered surveyor are revived as from the date of
expiry or annulment.

 (6) Any order of cancellation of registration or suspension from
practice does not take effect until the expiry of 30 days after the Board
has informed the person concerned, but if within that period the
person concerned gives due notice of appeal to the General Division
of the High Court, the order does not take effect unless the order is
confirmed by the General Division of the High Court or the appeal is
for any reason dismissed by the General Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (7) For the purposes of subsection (1)(g), a registered surveyor is
not to be deemed to have taken reasonable steps to prevent the doing
of any act by a corporation, partnership or limited liability partnership
unless he or she satisfies the Board that —

(a) the act was done without his or her knowledge;

(b) he or she was not in a position to influence the conduct of
     the corporation, partnership or limited liability partnership
     in relation to its action; or

          (c) he or she, being in such position, exercised all due
              diligence to prevent the corporation, partnership or
              limited liability partnership from so acting.

 (8) In this section, references to acts done include references to
omissions to act and to a series of acts or omissions to act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
29  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   2020 Ed.

Removal from registers

 26.—(1) The name and other particulars of any registered
surveyor —

    (a) who has died;

    (b) whose registration has been cancelled under section 25; or

    (c) who has no address in Singapore at which he or she can be
        contacted or sent any document using his or her particulars
        in the register,

must be removed from the register of surveyors and register of
practitioners.

 (2) Any registered surveyor may apply to the Board to have his or
her name removed from the register of surveyors.

 (3) Every application under subsection (2) must be made in the
prescribed form and must be supported by an affidavit served on the
Board at least 2 months before the application is heard.

 (4) The Board may for good cause require the applicant to advertise
his or her intention to make the application in such manner as the
Board directs.

 (5) Subject to subsection (6), the Board may after hearing the
application direct the Registrar to remove the name of the applicant
from the register of surveyors.

 (6) No order is to be made on an application under subsection (2) if
the Board is satisfied that —

    (a) disciplinary action is pending against the applicant; or

    (b) the conduct of the applicant is the subject of an inquiry or
         investigation by an Investigation Committee.

Revocation of licence

 27.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), the Board may by order revoke
any licence granted to a corporation, partnership or limited liability
partnership if in the opinion of the Board —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                      30

(a) the corporation, partnership or limited liability partnership
     has failed to comply with any of the conditions imposed by
     the Board under section 18;

(b) in relation to a corporation, the memorandum or articles of
     association of the corporation have been so altered that
     they no longer include the restrictions, limitations or
     prohibitions of the kind specified in section 17(1) or (2),
     whichever is applicable;

          (c) in relation to a partnership, a person who is neither —

          (i) a registered surveyor who has in force a practising
              certificate; nor

          (ii) an allied professional who has in force a practising
               certificate,

          (c) has a beneficial interest in the capital assets and profits of
              the partnership;

(d) in relation to a limited liability partnership, the limited
     liability partnership no longer satisfies the requirements of
     section 17(4);

          (e) the licence had been obtained by fraud or
              misrepresentation;

          (f) the corporation, partnership or limited liability partnership
              has stopped supplying survey services in Singapore;

(g) the corporation, partnership or limited liability partnership
     has contravened section 19, 20 or 21, or has been convicted
     of an offence under this Act;

(h) the corporation, partnership or limited liability partnership
     has contravened any provision of the prescribed code of
     professional conduct and ethics;

          (i) the conduct of any director, manager or employee of the
              corporation, or any partner, manager or employee of the
              partnership or limited liability partnership, provides
              grounds for believing that the corporation, partnership or
              limited liability partnership (as the case may be) will not

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
31  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   2020 Ed.

    engage in survey work in Singapore in accordance with the
    written law and with honesty and integrity;

    (j) the corporation, partnership or limited liability partnership
        has refused or failed to comply with an order of the Board
        made under subsection (2); or

    (k) the corporation, partnership or limited liability partnership
        refuses or fails to pay the cost of any correction to its
        cadastral survey within 14 days of the receipt of a
        statement issued to it under section 16(4) of the
        Boundaries and Survey Maps Act 1998.

 (2) The Board may, in any case in which it considers that no cause
of sufficient gravity for revoking a licence exists —

    (a) by order impose on the corporation, partnership or limited
         liability partnership concerned a penalty not exceeding
         $50,000 and every such penalty is recoverable as a debt
         due to the Board; or

                                                                        [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

    (b) order the corporation, partnership or limited liability
         partnership to pay the cost of any correction to its
         cadastral survey incurred by the Chief Surveyor.

 (2A) All penalties collected by the Board under subsection (2)(a)
must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

 (3) The Board must not exercise its powers under subsection (1) or
(2) unless —

    (a) an opportunity of being heard by a representative in writing
         or by counsel has been given to the corporation,
         partnership or limited liability partnership against which
         the Board intends to exercise its powers; and

    (b) at least 3 members of the Board are present at the hearing.

 (4) Where the Board has revoked a licence under this section, it
must immediately inform the corporation, partnership or limited
liability partnership concerned.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   32

 (5) Any order of revocation made by the Board does not take effect
until the expiry of 30 days after the Board has informed the
corporation, partnership or limited liability partnership concerned
and if within that period the corporation, partnership or limited
liability partnership gives due notice of appeal to the General
Division of the High Court, the order does not take effect unless the
order is confirmed by the General Division of the High Court or the
appeal is for any reason dismissed by the General Division of the
High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (6) Where an order of revocation becomes effective —

(a) the Registrar must cause notice of the revocation to be
     published in the Gazette and must cancel the entry in the
     register of licensees relating to the corporation, partnership
     or limited liability partnership concerned; and

(b) the corporation, partnership or limited liability partnership
     concerned must, as from the date of the notice, stop
     supplying survey services in Singapore except as may be
     approved by the Board for the purpose of winding up its
     business.

 (7) Subsection (6)(b) does not prejudice the enforcement by any
person of any right or claim against the corporation, partnership or
limited liability partnership or by the corporation, partnership or
limited liability partnership of any right or claim against any person.

Appeals

 28. Where the Board has made —

       (a) an order of cancellation of registration or suspension from
            practice under section 25 against a registered surveyor;

       (b) an order of revocation of a licence under section 27 against
            a corporation, partnership or limited liability partnership;
            or

       (c) an order imposing any pecuniary penalty on a registered
            surveyor under section 25(2) or on a corporation,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
33  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   2020 Ed.

    partnership or limited liability partnership under
    section 27(2),

the registered surveyor, corporation, partnership or limited liability
partnership concerned may, within 30 days after the order or penalty
has been communicated to him, her or it, appeal to the General
Division of the High Court whose decision is final.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Reinstatement of registration

 29. The Board may, after the expiry of at least one year from the
cancellation of registration of any person, consider any application
for registration by that person in accordance with the provisions of
Part 4.

Powers to require attendance of witnesses, etc.

 30.—(1) For the purposes of any investigation by an Investigation
Committee or any hearing under section 25 or 27 by the Board, the
Investigation Committee or the Board may —

       (a) require evidence to be given on oath and for that purpose
            the Chairperson of the Investigation Committee or any
            member of the Board (as the case may be) may administer
            an oath; and

       (b) require any person to attend and give evidence before it
            and to produce all books, documents and papers in the
            custody of that person or under that person’s control
            relating to the subject matter of the investigation or
            hearing.

 (2) Every person who, without lawful excuse, refuses or fails —

       (a) to attend and give evidence when required to do so by the
            Investigation Committee or the Board;

       (b) to answer truly and fully any question put to the person by
            a member of the Investigation Committee or the Board; or

       (c) to produce to the Investigation Committee or the Board any
            book, document or paper required of the person,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   34

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

Board may appoint legal counsel

 31. For the purposes of any investigation by an Investigation
Committee, any hearing under section 25 or 27 by the Board or any
appeal to the General Division of the High Court under section 28, the
Investigation Committee or the Board (as the case may be) may
appoint an advocate and solicitor and pay him or her such
remuneration as the Board may determine.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Costs and expenses

 32.—(1) Where the Board has made —

       (a) an order of cancellation of registration or suspension from
            practice under section 25 against a registered surveyor;

       (b) an order of revocation of a licence under section 27 against
            a corporation, partnership or limited liability partnership;
            or

       (c) an order imposing any pecuniary penalty on a registered
            surveyor under section 25(2) or on a corporation,
            partnership or limited liability partnership under
            section 27(2),

the Board may order the registered surveyor, corporation, partnership
or limited liability partnership (as the case may be) to pay to the
Board such sum as it thinks fit in respect of costs and expenses
incurred by the Board.

 (2) The General Division of the High Court has jurisdiction to tax
any sum ordered by the Board under subsection (1), and such order is
enforceable as if it were ordered in connection with a civil action in
the General Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) The costs and expenses mentioned in subsection (1) include —

       (a) the costs and expenses of any advocate and solicitor
            appointed under section 31;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
35  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   2020 Ed.

    (b) such reasonable expenses as the Board may pay to
         witnesses; and

    (c) such reasonable expenses as may be incurred by the Board
        in respect of the investigation by the Investigation
        Committee or in the conduct of proceedings before the
        Board or any appeal to the General Division of the High
        Court.

                                                                                                    [40/2019]

                                    PART 8

                                  GENERAL

Application of fees, etc., received by Board

 33.—(1) All fees, penalties and other moneys payable under this
Act, unless otherwise provided, must be paid to the Board to be
applied —

       (a) first, to defraying the expenses incurred by the Board in the
            administration of this Act, including the remuneration of
            the Registrar and other officers and employees of the
            Board; and

       (b) thereafter, to providing scholarships and the promotion of
            learning and education in connection with the surveying
            profession.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

 (2) The Registrar must take and receive all moneys payable to the
Board under this Act.

 (3) All fees and other moneys payable to the Board under this Act
must be paid immediately into a bank account approved by the
Minister.

 (4) The Board may invest its moneys in accordance with the
standard investment power of statutory bodies as defined in
section 33A of the Interpretation Act 1965.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   36

Penalty for wilful falsification of register and for wrongfully
procuring registration, etc.

34. Any person who —

(a) wilfully makes or causes to be made any false entry in or
     falsification of any register kept and maintained under this
     Act;

(b) wilfully procures or attempts to procure —

          (i) for any corporation, partnership or limited liability
              partnership any licence; or

      (ii) for himself or herself or any other person a practising
            certificate or to be registered as a registered surveyor
            or registered foreign surveyor under this Act,

                                                                    [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

(b) by making or producing or causing to be made or produced
     any false or fraudulent representation or declaration, either
     verbally or in writing, or by intentionally suppressing any
     material fact and providing information which is
     misleading; or

          (c) knowingly aids or assists in any of the acts mentioned in
              paragraph (a) or (b),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2024 wef 01/10/2025]

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 35. Where a corporation, partnership, limited liability partnership
or an unincorporated association of persons is guilty of an offence
under this Act and that offence is proved to have been committed with
the authority, consent or connivance of any director, manager,
partner, secretary or other similar officer of the corporation,
partnership, limited liability partnership or association or any
person who was purporting to act in any such capacity, he or she,
as well as the corporation, partnership, limited liability partnership or
association, shall be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
37  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   2020 Ed.

No action or proceedings in absence of bad faith or malice

 36. No action or proceedings shall lie against the Board, an
Investigation Committee or any member thereof for any act or thing
done under this Act unless it is proved to the court that the act or thing
was done in bad faith or with malice.

Exemption

 37.—(1) The Minister may, by order and subject to any conditions
that the Minister thinks fit, exempt any person or class of persons
from all or any of the provisions of this Act.

 (2) Any order made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Rules

 38.—(1) The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, make
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act and for any matter
which is required under this Act to be prescribed.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Board may, with the
approval of the Minister, make rules —

       (a) prescribing forms of applications under this Act and
            certificates of registration, practising certificates and
            licences;

       (b) prescribing the requirements relating to continuing
            professional development to be satisfied under this Act;

       (c) prescribing the fees payable to the Board under this Act;

       (d) prescribing the subject matter of examinations to be
            conducted by or under the direction of the Board in the
            case of any applicant or class of applicants for registration;

       (e) prescribing the form of the register of surveyors, register of
            practitioners and register of licensees to be kept and the
            particulars to be entered therein;

        (f) prescribing a code of professional conduct and ethics;

       (g) requiring all or any of the following to take out and
            maintain insurance against liability for breach of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Land Surveyors Act 1991                                   38

          professional duty in the course of supplying survey
          services:

          (i) any partnership consisting wholly of registered
              surveyors applying for a licence;

          (ii) any partnership or unlimited corporation applying
               for a licence;

          (iii) any registered surveyor applying for a practising
                certificate for the purpose of engaging in survey
                practice on his or her own account;

          (iv) any registered surveyor applying for a practising
               certificate who is employed or about to be employed
               by any person or body referred to in
               sub‑paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii);

          (v) any other registered surveyor applying for a
               practising certificate;

(h) prescribing the terms and conditions of insurance against
     professional liability under this Act, including a minimum
     limit of indemnity; and

          (i) regulating the proceedings of an Investigation Committee.

 (3) All rules made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                     LAND SURVEYORS ACT 1991

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                  PART 1
                    SURVEYORS ORDINANCE
           (CHAPTER 201, 1955 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance XXXVII of 1902 — The Surveyors Ordinance 1902

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1405/1902

First Reading         : 7 November 1902

Second Reading        : 14 November 1902

Notice of Amendments  : 12 December 1902

Third Reading         : 12 December 1902

Commencement          : 13 August 1903

2. 1920 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 81 (Surveyors)

Operation             : 28 November 1921

3. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 81 (Surveyors)

Operation             : 1 August 1926

4. 1936 Revised Edition — Surveyors Ordinance (Chapter 63)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

5. Ordinance 37 of 1952 — Law Revision (Penalties Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1952

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 19 of the Schedule to the
   above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 32/1952

First Reading         : 16 September 1952

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
                         ii

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 1952

Commencement             : 30 April 1955 (section 2 read with
                               item 19 of the Schedule)

6. 1955 Revised Edition — Surveyors Ordinance (Chapter 201)

Operation                : 1 July 1956

                                  PART 2
                     LAND SURVEYORS ACT
           (CHAPTER 156, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

7. Act 46 of 1970 — Land Surveyors Act, 1970

Bill                     : 27/1969

First Reading            : 22 December 1969

Second Reading           : 27 January 1970

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 5 of 1970

Third Reading            : 4 November 1970

Commencement             : 1 September 1972

Note: This Act was brought into force after it was revised in the
        1970 Revised Edition.

8. 1985 Revised Edition — Land Surveyors Act (Chapter 156)

Operation                : 30 March 1987

                               PART 3
                LAND SURVEYORS ACT 1991

                   (2020 REVISED EDITION)

9. Act 24 of 1991 — Land Surveyors Act 1991

Bill                     : 11/1991

First Reading            : 27 February 1991

Second Reading           : 22 March 1991

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 3 of 1991

Third Reading            : 28 June 1991

Commencement             : 30 August 1991

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
                         iii

10. 1992 Revised Edition — Land Surveyors Act (Chapter 156)

Operation                : 9 March 1992

11. Act 15 of 1995 — Bankruptcy Act 1995
     (Amendments made by section 167(4) read with item (10) of the Second
     Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                     : 16/1994

First Reading            : 25 July 1994

Second Reading           : 25 August 1994

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 1 of 1995

Third Reading            : 23 March 1995

Commencement             : 15 July 1995 (section 167(4) read with
                               item (10) of the Second Schedule)

12. Act 3 of 1998 — Planning Act 1998
     (Amendments made by section 65 read with item (5) of the Second Schedule
     to the above Act)

Bill                     : 18/1997

First Reading            : 19 November 1997

Second Reading           : 14 January 1998

Notice of Amendments     : 14 January 1998

Third Reading            : 14 January 1998

Commencement             : 1 April 1998 (section 65 read with
                               item (5) of the Second Schedule)

13. Act 35 of 1998 — Boundaries and Survey Maps Act 1998
     (Amendments made by section 19 of the above Act)

Bill                     : 32/1998

First Reading            : 31 July 1998

Second and Third Readings : 4 September 1998

Commencement             : 16 October 1998 (section 19)

14. Act 34 of 1999 — Land Surveyors (Amendment) Act 1999

Bill                     : 21/1999

First Reading            : 6 July 1999

Second Reading           : 17 August 1999

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
                      iv

Notice of Amendments  : 17 August 1999

Third Reading         : 17 August 1999

Commencement          : 1 March 2000

15. Act 17 of 2001 — Singapore Land Authority Act 2001
     (Amendments made by section 38(1) read with item (9) of the Fourth
     Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 17/2001

First Reading         : 5 March 2001

Second and Third Readings : 19 April 2001

Commencement          : 1 June 2001 (section 38(1) read with
                            item (9) of the Fourth Schedule)

16. 2002 Revised Edition — Land Surveyors Act (Chapter 156)

Operation             : 31 December 2002

17. Act 12 of 2002 — Companies (Amendment) Act 2002
     (Amendments made by section 63(b) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 16/2002

First Reading         : 23 May 2002

Second and Third Readings : 8 July 2002

Commencement          : 13 January 2003 (section 63(b))

18. Act 30 of 2003 — Planning (Amendment) Act 2003
     (Amendments made by section 20 read with item (1) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 27/2003

First Reading         : 16 October 2003

Second and Third Readings : 11 November 2003

Commencement          : 10 December 2003 (section 20 read
                            with item (1) of the Schedule)

19. Act 37 of 2004 — Land Surveyors (Amendment) Act 2004

Bill                  : 36/2004

First Reading         : 1 September 2004

Second and Third Readings : 21 September 2004

Commencement          : 31 March 2005

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
               v

20. Act 21 of 2005 — Companies (Amendment) Act 2005
     (Amendments made by section 58 read with item (7) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 11/2005

First Reading  : 18 April 2005

Second and Third Readings : 16 May 2005

Commencement   : 30 January 2006 (section 58 read with
                     item (7) of the Schedule)

21. 2006 Revised Edition — Land Surveyors Act (Chapter 156)

Operation      : 1 April 2006

22. Act 2 of 2007 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2007
     (Amendments made by section 11 of the above Act)

Bill           : 14/2006

First Reading  : 8 November 2006

Second and Third Readings : 22 January 2007

Commencement   : 2 May 2007 (section 11)

23. Act 30 of 2008 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2008
     (Amendments made by section 8 of the above Act)

Bill           : 27/2008

First Reading  : 15 September 2008

Second and Third Readings : 17 November 2008

Commencement   : 17 December 2008 (section 8)

24. Act 21 of 2008 — Mental Health (Care and Treatment) Act 2008
     (Amendments made by section 33 read with item 1(24) of the Second
     Schedule to the above Act)

Bill           : 11/2008

First Reading  : 21 July 2008

Second and Third Readings : 15 September 2008

Commencement   : 1 March 2010 (section 33 read with
                     item 1(24) of the Second Schedule)

25. 2012 Revised Edition — Land Surveyors Act (Chapter 156)

Operation      : 30 September 2012

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
                      vi

26. Act 36 of 2014 — Companies (Amendment) Act 2014
     (Amendments made by section 188 read with item 2 of the Second Schedule
     to the above Act)

Bill                  : 25/2014

First Reading         : 8 September 2014

Second Reading        : 7 October 2014

Notice of Amendments  : 8 October 2014

Third Reading         : 8 October 2014

Commencement          : 3 January 2016 (section 188 read with
                            item 2 of the Second Schedule)

27. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 75 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2017

First Reading         : 6 November 2017

Second Reading        : 8 January 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 8 January 2018

Third Reading         : 8 January 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 75)

28. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 82 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 82 of the Schedule)

29. 2020 Revised Edition — Land Surveyors Act 1991

Operation             : 31 December 2021

30. Act 25 of 2024 — Land Surveyors (Amendment) Act 2024

Bill                  : 21/2024

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
               vii

First Reading  : 2 July 2024

Second and Third Readings : 6 August 2024

Commencement   : 1 October 2025

               Abbreviations

.              (updated on 29 August 2022)
               Gazette Notification
G.N.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
G.N. Sp.       Legislative Assembly
L.A.           Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
L.N.           Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
M.             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
               Malaysia)
Parl.          Parliament
S              Subsidiary Legislation
S.I.           Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
S.S.G.G.       Straits Settlements Government Gazette
S.S.G.G. (E)   Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
            COMPARATIVE TABLE
        LAND SURVEYORS ACT 1991

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

        2020 Ed.                    2012 Ed.
                  8—(1A)
8—(2)
   (3)               (2)
   (4)               (3)
   (5)               (4)
   (6)               (5)
                  33—(5) [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
—

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
