THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                AMUSEMENT RIDES SAFETY
                               ACT 2011

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
                                                                    2020 Ed.

         Amusement Rides Safety
                  Act 2011

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Appointment of Commissioner and enforcement officers
     2.  Commissioner and enforcement officers deemed to be public
     3.  servants
     4.

                                        PART 2

                 INSTALLATION OF AMUSEMENT RIDES

 5. Requirement for installation permit
 6. Application for and issue of installation permit
 7. Carrying out of installation works
 8. Duty to notify Commissioner of contravention of Act in relation

         to installation works
 9. Alteration of conditions of installation permit
10. Installation permit not transferable
11. Lapsing, revocation and suspension of installation permit
12. Inspection and certification of amusement ride after installation

                                        PART 3

                    OPERATION OF AMUSEMENT RIDES

13. Requirement for operating permit, etc.
14. Application for and issue of operating permit
15. Duration and renewal of operating permit
16. Appointment of ride managers
17. Duties of ride managers in respect of operation of amusement

         ride
18. Operation of amusement ride

                                                      1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                         2

Section   Duty to notify Commissioner of contravention of Act in relation
   19.    to operation of amusement ride
          Alteration of conditions of operating permit
   20.    Operating permit not transferable
   21.    Lapsing, revocation and suspension of operating permit
   22.

                                        PART 4

           MAJOR MODIFICATION OF AMUSEMENT RIDES

23. Requirement for modification permit
24. Application for and issue of modification permit
25. Carrying out of modification works
26. Duty to notify Commissioner of contravention of Act in relation

         to modification works
27. Alteration of conditions of modification permit
28. Modification permit not transferable
29. Lapsing, revocation and suspension of modification permit
30. Inspection and certification of amusement ride after major

         modification

                                        PART 5

           MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, MINOR MODIFICATION
               AND RELOCATION OF AMUSEMENT RIDES

31. Amusement ride to be maintained in safe condition
32. Commissioner may require repairs and modifications to

         amusement ride
33. Duty to notify Commissioner of minor modification of

         amusement ride
34. Relocation of amusement ride
35. Closure or cordoning off of amusement ride for safety reasons

                                        PART 6

                    APPROVAL AND CERTIFICATION OF
              FIRE AND RESCUE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

36. Application for approval and certification of fire and rescue
         management system

37. Withdrawal of approval or certificate of compliance
38. Regulations for purposes of this Part

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
         Amusement Rides Safety

3        Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

         PART 7

         PROVISIONS RELATING TO QUALIFIED PERSONS

Section  Qualified person to be independent
   39.   Qualified person vacating appointment before issue of
   40.   installation permit
         Qualified person vacating appointment during installation works
   41.   Qualified person vacating appointment before inspection or
   42.   certification of amusement ride under section 12
         Qualified person vacating appointment before issue of
   43.   modification permit
         Qualified person vacating appointment during modification
   44.   works
         Qualified person vacating appointment before inspection or
   45.   certification of amusement ride under section 30
         Standard of skill, care and diligence to be exercised by qualified
   46.   persons
         Other general duties of qualified persons
   47.

                                           PART 8

                                     ENFORCEMENT

   48. Provision of information
   49. Misrepresentation
   50. Power to enter and inspect premises
   51. Seizure and detention of documents, components of amusement

            ride, etc.
   52. Powers of arrest
   53. Power to require dismantling of amusement ride in dangerous

            condition, etc.
   54. Reporting of adverse incidents
   55. Obstructing Commissioner or enforcement officers in execution

            of their duties

                                           PART 9

                             PROVISIONS RELATING TO
                          OFFENCES AND PROSECUTION

   56. General penalty
   57. Jurisdiction of court
   58. Evidence

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                        4

Section   Presumptions and defences
          Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
   59.    Liability for offences by agents or employees
   60.    Composition of offences
   61.    Forfeiture
   62.
   63.

                                       PART 10

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

64. Issue of permits not to be taken as evidence of title to or interest
         in land

65. Service of documents, etc.
66. Form and authentication of documents
67. Inaccuracies in documents
68. Protection from liability
69. Appeals to Minister
70. Exemption
71. Fees
72. Regulations
73. Adoption of codes, standards and specifications
74. Presentation of regulations to Parliament

An Act to make provision relating to the safety of amusement rides
  and matters connected therewith.

                                                                  [1 July 2011]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Amusement Rides Safety Act 2011.

Interpretation
 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “adverse incident”, in relation to an amusement ride, includes —
              (a) any malfunction of the amusement ride;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
   Amusement Rides Safety

5  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

   (b) any accident arising from the operation of the
        amusement ride;

   (c) any occurrence of fire on the amusement ride or any
       part thereof (including the spread of smoke or any
       other harmful emission arising from such fire);

   (d) the collapse, breakage, dislodgement or
        disengagement of any structure or component of
        the amusement ride;

   (e) any occurrence arising from the operation of the
       amusement ride that results or is likely to result in —

   (i) any injury to, or the death of, any person who is
       using or operating, or in the vicinity of, the
       amusement ride; or

   (ii) any person being stranded or trapped on or in
        any part of the amusement ride; and

   (f) such other occurrence as may be prescribed as an
       adverse incident for the purposes of this Act;

   “amusement ride” means any mechanised or power‑driven
      device or any combination of such devices, together with any
      machinery, equipment and plant connected thereto or used in
      connection therewith, which —

   (a) is designed to carry patrons on, along, around, over or
        through a fixed or restricted course, or within a
        defined area, for the primary purpose of giving those
        patrons amusement, pleasure, thrills or excitement;
        and

   (b) is available for use by members of the public upon
        their payment of a fee or otherwise,

   whether or not that device or combination of devices is
   erected to remain as a lasting part of any premises or is
   regularly relocated, and —

   (c) includes such other device or combination of devices
       as may be prescribed to be an amusement ride for the
       purposes of this Act; but

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   6

          (d) does not include any —

          (i) coin-operated ride;

          (ii) playground equipment; or

          (iii) device or combination of devices which is
                prescribed as not being an amusement ride for
                the purposes of this Act;

“Authority” means the Building and Construction Authority
   established under section 3 of the Building and Construction
   Authority Act 1999;

“building” has the meaning given by the Building Control
   Act 1989, and includes any part of an amusement ride which
   is declared to be a building under paragraph (g) of the
   definition of “building” in section 2(1) of that Act;

“building works” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
   Building Control Act 1989;

“certificate of compliance” means a certificate of compliance
   issued by the Commissioner of Civil Defence under
   section 36(4)(a) in respect of the fire and rescue
   management system of an amusement ride;

“coin-operated ride” means any device which —

          (a) is fixed to a non-moving base; and

          (b) upon the insertion of any coin, slug, token, plate or
               disc, operates as a ride for children;

“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Amusement Rides
   Safety appointed under section 3(1);

“Commissioner of Building Control” means the appropriate
   Commissioner of Building Control appointed under
   section 3(1) of the Building Control Act 1989;

“Commissioner of Civil Defence” means the Commissioner of
   Civil Defence appointed under section 6 of the Civil Defence
   Act 1986 and includes any public officer or member of the
   Civil Defence Force designated by the Commissioner of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
   Amusement Rides Safety

7  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

   Civil Defence to act in his or her place for the purposes of this
   Act;

   “component”, in relation to an amusement ride, means any part
      in the entire assembly of parts that make up the amusement
      ride, and includes —

   (a) any part of the structure of the amusement ride;

   (b) any chair, car, capsule, cabin, gondola, boat, raft,
        vehicle or other conveyance which forms part of the
        amusement ride;

   (c) any cable, chain, rope or cord used for the purposes of
       the amusement ride; and

   (d) any electrical gadget, switch or device or any
        computer hardware or software used in connection
        with the operation of the amusement ride;

   “conformity assessor” means any person or body of persons
      (whether incorporated or not, and whether local or
      foreign) —

   (a) whose expertise is or includes the carrying out of
        procedures (including inspections, tests and
        certifications) for determining whether the design
        and specifications, the proposed installation method
        and programme or the proposed modification method
        and programme relating to a major amusement ride or
        the major modification thereof conform to any given
        technical standard or requirement; and

   (b) who satisfies the prescribed requirements;

   “design and specifications” means —

   (a) in relation to an amusement ride — the design and
        specifications (including any plans and calculations)
        of or relating to —

   (i) the machinery, equipment and plant connected
       to, or used in connection with, the amusement
       ride;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.                    Act 2011                                 8

          (ii) the structure and components of the amusement
               ride;

          (iii) the materials used to construct the amusement
                ride;

          (iv) the stability and structural integrity of the
               amusement ride; and

          (v) such other aspects of the amusement ride as
               may be prescribed; and

          (b) in relation to any major modification to be carried out
               on an amusement ride — the design and
               specifications (including any plans and
               calculations) in accordance with which any aspect
               of the amusement ride mentioned in paragraph (a)(i)
               to (v) is to be modified pursuant to the major
               modification;

“enforcement officer” means any person appointed under
   section 3(3) to be an enforcement officer for the purposes
   of this Act;

“existing amusement ride” means an amusement ride which has
   been in operation at any time during the period of 12 months
   immediately before 1 July 2011, whether on a continuous or
   an intermittent basis;

“fire and rescue management system”, in relation to an
   amusement ride, means any installation, apparatus or
   equipment (whether integrated as part of the amusement
   ride or otherwise) and the protocols and instructions for the
   activation, operation and use thereof, which are designed to
   be used for —

          (a) addressing —

          (i) any occurrence of fire on the amusement ride or
              any part thereof (including the spread of smoke
              or any other harmful emission arising from
              such fire);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
   Amusement Rides Safety

9  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

   (ii) any occurrence arising from the operation of
        the amusement ride that results or is likely to
        result in any person being injured, stranded or
        trapped on or in any part of the amusement ride;
        and

   (iii) such other occurrence arising from the
         operation of the amusement ride as may be
         prescribed;

   (b) giving warning of any occurrence mentioned in
        paragraph (a), or of the likelihood of any such
        occurrence;

   (c) providing a means of rescue, escape or evacuation of
       persons from the amusement ride in the event of any
       occurrence mentioned in paragraph (a); and

   (d) providing access to any premises or place for the
        purpose of addressing any occurrence mentioned in
        paragraph (a);

   “install”, in relation to an amusement ride, means to construct,
      erect, assemble or put in place the amusement ride on any
      premises, but in relation to an amusement ride that is capable
      of being relocated, does not include to construct, erect,
      assemble or put in place that amusement ride on any premises
      arising from its relocation to those premises;

   “installation method and programme”, in relation to an
      amusement ride, means the method and programme to be
      followed for the installation of the amusement ride, and
      includes all safety assessments and tests to be carried out
      during or upon the completion of the installation works;

   “installation permit” means a permit issued by the
      Commissioner under section 6 authorising the installation
      of an amusement ride;

   “installation works” means all works relating to the installation
      of an amusement ride, but does not include any building
      works relating to the construction or modification of any

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   10

          building which forms part of the amusement ride or to which
          the amusement ride is connected;

“major amusement ride” means any type of amusement ride
   which, on account of its design, size, structure, speed or other
   characteristics, is prescribed as a major amusement ride for
   the purposes of this Act;

“major modification”, in relation to an amusement ride, means
   any manner of change to the structure or mechanism of the
   amusement ride which is prescribed as a major modification
   for the purposes of this Act;

“minor modification”, in relation to an amusement ride, means
   any modification to the amusement ride (including any
   refurbishment thereof) which is not prescribed as a major
   modification for the purposes of this Act;

“modification method and programme”, in relation to the major
   modification of an amusement ride, means the method and
   programme to be followed for the major modification of the
   amusement ride, and includes all safety assessments and tests
   to be carried out during or upon the completion of the
   modification works;

“modification permit” means a permit issued by the
   Commissioner under section 24 authorising the major
   modification of an amusement ride;

“modification works” means all works relating to the major
   modification or minor modification (as the case may be) of an
   amusement ride, but does not include any building works
   relating to the construction or modification of any building
   which forms part of the amusement ride or to which the
   amusement ride is connected;

“operate”, in relation to an amusement ride, means to cause the
   amusement ride to be put to function for the purpose of
   making the use of the amusement ride available to members
   of the public, whether upon their payment of a fee or
   otherwise, and “operator” is to be construed accordingly;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

11                   Act 2011                                  2020 Ed.

    “operating method”, in relation to an amusement ride, means the
       method by which, according to its design and specifications,
       the amusement ride is to be put to function, and includes all
       safety measures to be taken in the event of any adverse
       incident occurring in respect of the amusement ride;

    “operating permit” means a permit issued by the Commissioner
       under section 14 authorising the holder of the permit to
       operate an amusement ride;

    “owner” means —

    (a) in relation to any premises — the person for the time
         being receiving the rents or profits for the lease of the
         premises, whether on the person’s own account or as
         agent or trustee for any other person, or who would so
         receive the rents or profits if the premises were so
         leased, and includes the person whose name is
         entered in the Valuation List prepared under
         section 10 of the Property Tax Act 1960; and

    (b) in relation to an amusement ride — the person for the
         time being receiving the rents or profits for the lease
         of the amusement ride, whether on the person’s own
         account or as agent or trustee for any other person, or
         who would so receive the rents or profits if the
         amusement ride were so leased;

    “patron” means any person who uses an amusement ride;

    “person responsible”, in relation to an amusement ride,
       means —

    (a) the person who holds the operating permit in respect
         of the amusement ride; or

    (b) if no person holds an operating permit in respect of
         the amusement ride for the time being — any of the
         following persons:

    (i) the owner of the amusement ride or the person
        who has the charge, management or control of
        the amusement ride;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   12

          (ii) the owner of the premises on which the
               amusement ride is installed;

          (iii) where the amusement ride is installed in an
                approved place within the meaning of section 2
                of the Public Entertainments Act 1958, and
                despite the amusement ride not being a public
                entertainment within the meaning of that
                section, the holder of a licence under that Act
                in respect of the public entertainment that is
                provided at that approved place;

          (iv) the person who is allowed by virtue of
               section 75 to operate the amusement ride
               without an operating permit; or

          (v) any other person who is prescribed to be the
               person responsible for the amusement ride for
               the purposes of this Act;

“playground equipment” means any apparatus designed for
   recreational use in a playground and includes swings,
   seesaws, stationary spring-mounted animal features,
   rider‑propelled merry‑go‑rounds, climbers, slides,
   trampolines and physical fitness devices;

“power-driven” means driven by mechanical, electrical,
   magnetic, pneumatic, hydraulic or any other means but
   does not include being driven solely by human physical
   effort;

“premises” means any place or building or part thereof, whether
   privately owned or not, to which the general public or any
   section of the general public is permitted to have access,
   whether on payment of a fee or otherwise;

“prescribed requirements” means the requirements (if any)
   prescribed by any provision of this Act or by the regulations
   and, where appropriate, includes such codes, standards and
   specifications as may be adopted by those regulations
   pursuant to section 73;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

13  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    “qualified person” means a person who —

    (a) is registered as a specialist professional engineer in
         the discipline of amusement ride engineering under
         the Professional Engineers Act 1991; and

    (b) has in force a specialist practising certificate issued
         under that Act;

    “regulations” means any regulations made under section 72;

    “relocate”, in relation to an amusement ride, means to move the
       amusement ride, with or without disassembly, from its
       present location to another location for operation at the
       other location;

    “relocation works” means all works relating to the relocation of
       an amusement ride, including the disassembling and
       reassembling of the amusement ride for the purposes of
       such relocation;

    “ride manager”, in relation to an amusement ride, means a
       person appointed under section 16 to oversee, manage and
       supervise the daily routine operation and maintenance of the
       amusement ride;

    “routine operation”, in relation to an amusement ride, means the
       carrying out of any task or activity that is necessary for
       putting the amusement ride to function, and includes —

    (a) the activation and exercise of mechanical control of
         the amusement ride;

    (b) the driving or steering of any vehicle, boat or other
         conveyance that forms part of the amusement ride;

    (c) the control of the number of patrons allowed on the
        amusement ride at any one time and the supervision
        of the boarding or alighting of those patrons;

    (d) the giving of directions to patrons regarding their use
         of the amusement ride and the safety measures to be
         observed by them when using the amusement ride;
         and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
             Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.     Act 2011                                                14

          (e) any other task or activity prescribed as being an
              aspect of the routine operation of the amusement ride
              for the purposes of this Act;

“structure”, in relation to an amusement ride, includes any
   tower, supporting frame, wheel, axle, arm, pendulum, drive
   system, launch mechanism, platform, flume, track or slide
   which forms part of the amusement ride.

                                                                                                           [28/2017]

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a device is regarded as being
wholly or, where appropriate, partly driven by a particular kind of
power if it is so driven by that kind of power at any stage of its
operation or propulsion.

(3) Where —

(a) by or under any provision of this Act, any act or thing is
     required or directed to be done within a particular period or
     before a particular time;

(b) failure to do that act or thing within the period or before the
     time mentioned in paragraph (a) constitutes an offence;
     and

          (c) that act or thing is not done within the period or before the
              time mentioned in paragraph (a),

the obligation to do that act or thing continues, even though that
period has expired or that time has passed, until that act or thing is
done; and if the failure to do that act or thing within the period or
before the time mentioned in paragraph (a) is an offence, a person
shall be guilty of a separate offence in respect of each day (including
the day of a conviction for any such offence or any later day) or part
of a day during which the person continues to refuse or fail to comply
with that requirement or direction.

Appointment of Commissioner and enforcement officers

 3.—(1) The Minister may appoint any person to be the
Commissioner of Amusement Rides Safety.

 (2) The Commissioner has, subject to any general or special
directions of the Minister, charge of the administration of this Act and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

15                           Act 2011                          2020 Ed.

may perform the duties imposed, and may exercise the powers
conferred, upon him or her by this Act.

 (3) The Commissioner may appoint, by name or office, from
among —

    (a) public officers; or

    (b) persons in the employment of the Authority or such other
         public authority constituted by any written law as the
         Minister may approve for the purpose,

any number of enforcement officers that the Commissioner considers
necessary for the purpose of assisting him or her in administering and
enforcing this Act.

 (4) Any powers conferred on and duties to be performed by the
Commissioner under this Act may, subject to any general or special
directions of the Commissioner, be exercised or performed by any
enforcement officer appointed under subsection (3).

 (5) Every enforcement officer appointed under subsection (3) is
subject to the general supervision of the Commissioner.

 (6) Every enforcement officer when exercising any powers under
this Act must, if not in uniform, declare his or her office and must, on
demand, produce to any person affected by the exercise of those
powers any identification card that the Commissioner may direct to
be carried by the enforcement officer when exercising those powers.

 (7) It is not an offence for any person to refuse to comply with any
requirement, demand or order made or given by any enforcement
officer who fails to produce his or her identification card on demand
being made by that person.

Commissioner and enforcement officers deemed to be public
servants

 4. The Commissioner and every enforcement officer are deemed to
be public servants within the meaning of the Penal Code 1871.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   16

          PART 2

          INSTALLATION OF AMUSEMENT RIDES

Requirement for installation permit

 5.—(1) A person must not install or cause any amusement ride to be
installed unless the installation of the amusement ride is authorised
by, and is carried out in accordance with the conditions of, a valid
installation permit.

 (2) Any person who commences or carries out, or who causes,
permits or authorises the commencement or carrying out of, any
installation works in contravention of subsection (1) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) to a fine not exceeding $200,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 2 years or to both; and

(b) in respect of a continuing contravention, to an additional
     fine not exceeding $1,000 for each day or part of a day
     during which the contravention continues,

and if the contravention continues after the conviction, the person
shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be liable on conviction of
this further offence to a further fine not exceeding $2,000 for every
day or part of a day during which the contravention continues after
conviction.

 (3) If any installation works are being carried out in contravention
of subsection (1), the Commissioner may —

(a) by written notice, require the person who is carrying out, or
     who has caused, permitted or authorised the carrying out
     of, the installation works to take or cause to be taken, at the
     expense of that person and within the time stipulated in the
     notice, all such measures as may be specified in the notice
     to secure the cessation of the installation works; or

(b) take or cause to be taken all measures that the
     Commissioner thinks necessary to secure the cessation of
     the installation works and recover from the person
     mentioned in paragraph (a) by way of a civil suit all
     costs and expenses reasonably incurred by the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

17  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    Commissioner in taking or causing those measures to be
    taken.

 (4) If the person on whom a notice under subsection (3)(a) is served
fails to comply with the notice within the time stipulated in the
notice —

    (a) that person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
         on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
         imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
         both; and

    (b) the Commissioner may take or cause to be taken all
         measures that the Commissioner thinks necessary to secure
         the cessation of the installation works, including those
         measures specified in the notice, and recover from the
         person in default by way of a civil suit all costs and
         expenses reasonably incurred by the Commissioner in
         taking or causing those measures to be taken.

 (5) The measures mentioned in subsections (3)(a) and (b) and
(4)(b) include —

    (a) the closure or cordoning off of the premises on which the
         installation works are being carried out; and

    (b) the dismantling of any part of the amusement ride that has
         already been installed.

 (6) In addition to the powers exercisable by him or her under
subsection (3) or (4), the Commissioner may, if the Commissioner
thinks necessary for securing the cessation of any installation works
being carried out in contravention of subsection (1), seize and
detain —

    (a) any machinery, equipment or plant connected or used in
         connection with the amusement ride being installed or with
         the installation works relating thereto; or

    (b) any component of the amusement ride being installed.

 (7) Section 51(2) applies to any item seized and detained under
subsection (6).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   18

Application for and issue of installation permit

6.—(1) An application for an installation permit must —

(a) be made to the Commissioner in such form and manner as
     the Commissioner may require;

(b) be submitted to the Commissioner together with any
     documents and particulars that the Commissioner may
     require; and

          (c) be accompanied by the prescribed fee.

 (2) A person who wishes to obtain an installation permit must,
before making an application under subsection (1) —

(a) appoint a qualified person to —

          (i) review the design and specifications and the
              proposed installation method and programme of
              the amusement ride to be installed and certify that
              they conform to the prescribed requirements;

          (ii) supervise the installation works; and

          (iii) inspect and certify the amusement ride under
                section 12 upon the completion of its installation,

(a) for which purpose either the same qualified person may be
     appointed to carry out all of the functions mentioned in
     sub‑paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii), or a different qualified
     person may be appointed to carry out each of those
     functions;

(b) where applicable, apply, in accordance with section 5 or
     5A of the Building Control Act 1989, to the Commissioner
     of Building Control for approval of the plans of any
     building works relating to any building which forms part of
     the amusement ride to be installed or to which the
     amusement ride is connected, or (as the case may be)
     ensure that the conditions in section 5AA(2) of that Act are
     satisfied in relation to such plans; and

                                                                    [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

(c) apply, in accordance with section 36, to the Commissioner
     of Civil Defence for the approval of the design and plans of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

19                       Act 2011                              2020 Ed.

    the fire and rescue management system of the amusement
    ride to be installed.

 (3) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1) and the
accompanying documents and particulars, the Commissioner may —

    (a) subject to subsection (4), issue an installation permit to the
         applicant —

    (i) in such form or manner as the Commissioner may
        determine; and

    (ii) subject to such conditions as the Commissioner
         thinks fit to impose;

    (b) in writing direct the applicant, at the applicant’s own
         expense and within the time specified in the direction, to —

    (i) make such alterations or amendments as the
        Commissioner may require to either or both the
        design and specifications and the proposed
        installation method and programme of the
        amusement ride;

    (ii) take such measures as the Commissioner may
         specify for the purpose of ensuring that the
         installation works will conform to the prescribed
         requirements; and

    (iii) resubmit the application for the installation permit
          upon having made those alterations or amendments
          or taken those measures; or

    (c) refuse to issue the installation permit, in which case the
        Commissioner must, if requested to do so by the applicant,
        state in writing the reasons for the refusal.

 (4) The Commissioner must not issue an installation permit unless
the Commissioner is satisfied that —

    (a) the applicant —

    (i) is a fit and appropriate person to be issued an
        installation permit; and

    (ii) satisfies the prescribed requirements;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   20

(b) the design and specifications and the proposed installation
     method and programme of the amusement ride to be
     installed have been reviewed in accordance with section 46
     by a qualified person appointed by the applicant under
     subsection (2)(a)(i) and certified by the qualified person as
     conforming to the prescribed requirements;

(c) where applicable, the plans of any building works relating
     to any building which forms part of the amusement ride to
     be installed, or to which the amusement ride is connected,
     have been approved or deemed approved by the
     Commissioner of Building Control under section 5, 5A
     or 5AA of the Building Control Act 1989;

                                                                    [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

(d) the design and plans of the fire and rescue management
     system of the amusement ride to be installed have been
     approved by the Commissioner of Civil Defence under
     section 36(3)(a); and

          (e) the installation works will be carried out under the
              supervision of a qualified person appointed by the
              applicant under subsection (2)(a)(ii) (whether or not the
              qualified person is the same qualified person mentioned in
              paragraph (b) or a different qualified person).

 (5) If any direction given by the Commissioner under
subsection (3)(b) is not complied with within the time specified in
the direction, or such further period as may be allowed by the
Commissioner in any particular case, the Commissioner may dismiss
the application.

Carrying out of installation works

 7.—(1) The holder of an installation permit must ensure that no
installation works are carried out except under the supervision of a
qualified person.

 (2) It is the duty of —

       (a) the holder of an installation permit;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

21  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    (b) any person who is directly engaged in the carrying out of
         the installation works authorised by the installation permit;
         and

    (c) the qualified person supervising the installation works,

to ensure that the installation works are at all times carried out in
accordance with —

    (d) the design and specifications and the proposed installation
         method and programme, as authorised by the installation
         permit;

    (e) the conditions of the installation permit;

    (f) the prescribed requirements; and

    (g) any direction given by the Commissioner in respect of the
         installation works.

 (3) Where, in relation to any installation works or part thereof, the
Commissioner is of the opinion that —

    (a) any requirement under subsection (1) or (2) has not been or
         is not being complied with; or

    (b) the installation works are dangerous or liable to pose a
         danger to persons who are employed in connection with the
         installation works, or who are using or operating, or in the
         vicinity of, the amusement ride being installed,

the Commissioner may, without revoking or suspending the
installation permit under section 11, direct the holder of the
installation permit or the person directly engaged in carrying out
the installation works to —

    (c) cease the installation works or part thereof, either
        immediately or within such time as may be specified by
        the Commissioner; and

    (d) where necessary, take, at the expense of the person to
         whom the direction is given, such remedial measures as the
         Commissioner may require,

and the installation works or part thereof (as the case may be) must
not be resumed without the written consent of the Commissioner.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   22

 (4) The Commissioner may, upon an application made by the
holder of the installation permit in such form and manner as the
Commissioner may require, grant his or her consent for the
installation works or any part thereof to resume if he or she is
satisfied that any such installation works or part thereof, if allowed to
resume —

(a) will comply with the requirements under subsections (1)
     and (2); and

(b) will not pose a danger to any person.

 (5) The holder of an installation permit who contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

(a) to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

(b) in respect of a continuing contravention, to an additional
     fine not exceeding $500 for each day or part of a day
     during which the contravention continues,

and if the contravention continues after the conviction, the holder of
the installation permit shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be
liable on conviction of this further offence to a further fine not
exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
contravention continues after conviction.

 (6) Any person to whom subsection (2) applies who contravenes
that subsection shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

(a) to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

(b) in respect of a continuing contravention, to an additional
     fine not exceeding $500 for each day or part of a day
     during which the contravention continues,

and if the contravention continues after the conviction, the person
shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be liable on conviction of
this further offence to a further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

23  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

day or part of a day during which the contravention continues after
conviction.

 (7) Any person who is directly engaged in the carrying out of any
installation works and who, in carrying out those installation works,
deviates or permits or authorises any deviation, in any material way
from the design and specifications or the proposed installation
method and programme authorised by the installation permit, shall,
unless that deviation has been submitted to and approved by the
Commissioner in accordance with the regulations, be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or
to both.

 (8) Where a person to whom a direction has been given by the
Commissioner under subsection (3) —

    (a) fails to comply with the direction; or

    (b) resumes the installation works without the written consent
         of the Commissioner,

that person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Duty to notify Commissioner of contravention of Act in
relation to installation works

 8.—(1) If —

       (a) the holder of an installation permit;

       (b) any person who is directly engaged in the carrying out of
            the installation works authorised by the installation permit;
            or

       (c) the qualified person supervising the installation works,

knows or ought reasonably to know of any contravention of this Act
relating to the carrying out of the installation works, it is the duty of
that person to notify the Commissioner, as soon as practicable, of the
contravention.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   24

 (2) Any person to whom subsection (1) applies who contravenes
that subsection shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

 (3) It is a defence in any prosecution for a contravention of
subsection (1) for the person charged to prove to the satisfaction of
the court that the person did not know and could not reasonably have
discovered the contravention mentioned in the charge.

Alteration of conditions of installation permit

 9.—(1) The Commissioner may —

       (a) on his or her own volition; or

       (b) on an application made by the holder of an installation
            permit,

at any time alter (whether by adding to, varying or revoking) the
conditions of an installation permit.

 (2) Before the Commissioner alters the conditions of an installation
permit on his or her own volition under subsection (1)(a), the
Commissioner must give written notice to the holder of the
installation permit —

       (a) stating that the Commissioner proposes to alter the
            conditions of the installation permit in the manner
            specified in the notice; and

       (b) specifying the time (being not less than 14 days from the
            date the notice is served on the holder of the installation
            permit) within which written representation with respect to
            the proposed alteration of conditions may be made.

 (3) Upon receiving any written representation mentioned in
subsection (2)(b), the Commissioner must consider the
representation and may reject the representation or amend the
proposed alteration of conditions in accordance with the
representation and, in either event, must thereupon issue a written
direction to the holder of the installation permit —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

25  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    (a) specifying the alteration made to the conditions of the
         installation permit; and

    (b) requiring the holder of the installation permit to comply
         with the altered conditions of the installation permit as
         from the date specified in the direction.

 (4) An application under subsection (1)(b) to alter the conditions of
an installation permit must be made to the Commissioner in such
form and manner as the Commissioner may require and must —

    (a) specify the alteration required by the applicant and the
         reasons therefor; and

    (b) be accompanied by —

    (i) such documents and particulars as the Commissioner
        may require; and

    (ii) the prescribed fee.

 (5) Where the Commissioner decides to alter the conditions of an
installation permit pursuant to an application made under
subsection (1)(b), the Commissioner must issue a written direction
to the holder of the installation permit —

    (a) specifying the alteration made to the conditions of the
         installation permit; and

    (b) requiring the holder of the installation permit to comply
         with the altered conditions of the installation permit as
         from the date specified in the direction.

Installation permit not transferable

 10. An installation permit is not transferable by its holder to any
other person, and any such purported transfer of any installation
permit is void.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   26

Lapsing, revocation and suspension of installation permit

11.—(1) An installation permit automatically lapses —

(a) if the holder of the installation permit —

          (i) dies, is wound up or otherwise dissolved, whether in
              Singapore or elsewhere; or

          (ii) ceases to be the person for whom the amusement ride
               is to be installed or the person carrying out the
               installation works, as the case may be;

(b) if the qualified person appointed by the holder of the
     installation permit under section 6(2)(a)(ii) to supervise the
     installation works has vacated his or her appointment and
     the holder of the installation permit has failed to appoint a
     substitute qualified person to supervise the installation
     works and to notify the Commissioner of the substitute
     appointment in accordance with section 41(1)(b)(i) and
     (ii); or

          (c) in the event of such other occurrence or in such other
              circumstances as may be prescribed.

(2) The Commissioner may revoke an installation permit if —

(a) the installation works authorised by the installation permit,
     having commenced, are suspended for a continuous period
     of more than 3 months;

(b) in the Commissioner’s opinion, the holder of the
     installation permit has contravened or is contravening, or
     the installation works authorised by the installation permit
     have been or are being carried out in a manner which
     contravenes —

          (i) any condition of the installation permit;

          (ii) any prescribed requirement; or

          (iii) any direction given by the Commissioner in respect
                of the installation works;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

27  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    (c) the Commissioner has reason to believe that the
        installation permit had been obtained by fraud or
        misrepresentation;

    (d) the Commissioner becomes aware of any circumstance that
         would have required or permitted him or her to refuse to
         issue the installation permit had the Commissioner been
         aware of the circumstance immediately before issuing the
         installation permit; or

    (e) the Commissioner considers it in the public interest to
        revoke the installation permit.

 (3) The Commissioner may, if he or she considers it desirable to do
so —

    (a) suspend an installation permit for a specific period instead
         of revoking it under subsection (2); and

    (b) at any time extend or rescind the suspension.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), the Commissioner must not revoke or
suspend an installation permit under subsection (2) or (3) without
giving the holder of the installation permit an opportunity to be heard
in accordance with the prescribed procedure.

 (5) The Commissioner may revoke or suspend an installation
permit without giving the holder of the installation permit an
opportunity to be heard if —

    (a) the holder of the installation permit —

    (i) has been declared bankrupt or has gone into
        compulsory or voluntary liquidation other than for
        the purpose of amalgamation or reconstruction; or

    (ii) is in the course of being wound up or otherwise
         dissolved, whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

    (b) a receiver, a receiver and manager or an equivalent person
         has been appointed, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, in
         relation to or in respect of any property of the holder of the
         installation permit; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   28

          (c) the holder of the installation permit has been convicted —

          (i) of an offence under this Act; or

          (ii) whether in Singapore or elsewhere, of an offence
               involving fraud or dishonesty or the conviction for
               which involved a finding that the holder of the
               installation permit had acted fraudulently or
               dishonestly.

Inspection and certification of amusement ride after
installation

 12. Upon the completion of the installation of an amusement
ride —

       (a) the qualified person appointed by the holder of the
            installation permit under section 6(2)(a)(iii) must, in
            accordance with section 46, inspect the amusement ride
            and issue a certificate stating that, in the qualified person’s
            opinion —

               (i) the installation works have been properly carried out
                   in accordance with —

                    (A) the design and specifications and the proposed
                          installation method and programme, as
                          authorised by the installation permit;

                     (B) the conditions of the installation permit;

                     (C) the prescribed requirements; and

                    (D) any direction given by the Commissioner in
                          respect of the installation works; and

              (ii) the amusement ride, as installed —

                    (A) conforms to the prescribed requirements; and

                     (B) is in a safe working condition and fit for
                          operation; and

       (b) the holder of the installation permit must, in accordance
            with section 36, apply to and obtain from the
            Commissioner of Civil Defence a certificate of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

29  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    compliance in respect of the fire and rescue management
    system of the amusement ride.

                                    PART 3

                OPERATION OF AMUSEMENT RIDES

Requirement for operating permit, etc.

 13.—(1) A person must not operate an amusement ride unless —

       (a) the person holds a valid operating permit and operates the
            amusement ride in accordance with the conditions of the
            operating permit; and

       (b) at all times when the amusement ride is being operated —

               (i) the amusement ride is in a state of good repair and
                   safe working condition, and is fit for operation;

              (ii) there is in force a certificate of compliance in respect
                   of the fire and rescue management system of the
                   amusement ride, and the fire and rescue management
                   system of the amusement ride complies with such
                   requirements (if any) as may be prescribed under
                   section 38;

             (iii) there is in force an insurance covering the person
                   responsible for the amusement ride against liability
                   for any injury to, or the death of, any person arising
                   out of the operation or use of the amusement ride in
                   an amount that is not less than the prescribed
                   minimum limits; and

             (iv) there is appointed in respect of the amusement ride at
                   least one ride manager to oversee, manage and
                   supervise the daily routine operation and
                   maintenance of the amusement ride.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $200,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 2 years or to both; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   30

(b) in respect of a continuing contravention, to an additional
     fine not exceeding $1,000 for each day or part of a day
     during which the contravention continues,

and if the contravention continues after the conviction, the person
shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be liable on conviction of
this further offence to a further fine not exceeding $2,000 for every
day or part of a day during which the contravention continues after
conviction.

 (3) If any amusement ride is being operated in contravention of
subsection (1), the Commissioner may —

(a) by written notice, require the person responsible for the
     amusement ride to take or cause to be taken (at the expense
     of such person and within such time as may be stipulated in
     the notice) all such measures as may be specified in the
     notice to secure the cessation of the operation of the
     amusement ride; or

(b) take or cause to be taken all such measures that the
     Commissioner thinks necessary to secure the cessation of
     the operation of the amusement ride and recover from the
     person responsible for the amusement ride by way of a
     civil suit all costs and expenses reasonably incurred by the
     Commissioner in taking or causing those measures to be
     taken.

 (4) If the person on whom a notice under subsection (3)(a) is served
fails to comply with the notice within the time stipulated in the
notice —

(a) that person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
     on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
     imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
     both; and

(b) the Commissioner may take or cause to be taken all
     measures that he or she thinks necessary to secure the
     cessation of the operation of the amusement ride, including
     those measures specified in the notice, and recover from
     the person in default by way of a civil suit all costs and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

31  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    expenses reasonably incurred by the Commissioner in
    taking or causing those measures to be taken.

 (5) The measures mentioned in subsections (3)(a) and (b) and
(4)(b) include —

    (a) the closure or cordoning off of the amusement ride; and

    (b) the dismantling of the whole or any part of the amusement
         ride.

 (6) In addition to the powers exercisable by him or her under
subsection (3) or (4), the Commissioner may, if he or she thinks it
necessary for securing the cessation of the operation of an amusement
ride in contravention of subsection (1), seize and detain —

    (a) any machinery, equipment or plant connected or used in
         connection with the amusement ride; or

    (b) any component of the amusement ride.

 (7) Section 51(2) applies to any item seized and detained under
subsection (6).

Application for and issue of operating permit

 14.—(1) An application for an operating permit must —

       (a) be made to the Commissioner in such form and manner as
            the Commissioner may require;

       (b) be submitted to the Commissioner together with such
            documents and particulars as the Commissioner may
            require; and

       (c) be accompanied by the prescribed fee.

 (2) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1) and the
accompanying documents and particulars, the Commissioner may
inspect the amusement ride in respect of which the application has
been made or cause the amusement ride to be inspected by an
enforcement officer, and thereafter —

       (a) subject to subsection (3), issue an operating permit to the
            applicant —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.             Act 2011                                        32

          (i) in such form or manner as the Commissioner may
              determine; and

          (ii) subject to such conditions as the Commissioner
               thinks fit to impose;

(b) in writing direct the applicant, at the applicant’s own
     expense and within the time specified in the direction, to —

          (i) take such measures or comply with such
              requirements (including the carrying out of any
              works or modifications to the amusement ride) as the
              Commissioner may specify for the purpose of
              ensuring that the amusement ride conforms to the
              prescribed requirements; and

          (ii) resubmit the application for the operating permit
               upon having taken those measures or complied with
               those requirements; or

          (c) refuse to issue the operating permit, in which case the
              Commissioner must, if requested by the applicant, state in
              writing the reasons for the refusal.

 (3) The Commissioner must not issue an operating permit unless
the Commissioner is satisfied that —

(a) the applicant —

          (i) is a fit and appropriate person to be issued an
              operating permit; and

          (ii) satisfies the prescribed requirements;

(b) the amusement ride in respect of which the operating
     permit is sought —

          (i) has (as the case requires) been inspected and certified
              by a qualified person —

          (A) under section 12 upon the completion of its
               installation;

          (B) under section 30 upon the completion of its
               major modification; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

33  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    (C) in accordance with the regulations, in any case
         to which sub‑paragraph (A) or (B) does not
         apply; and

    (ii) satisfies the prescribed requirements;

    (c) where applicable, the Commissioner of Building Control
        has issued a certificate of statutory completion or granted a
        temporary occupation permit under section 12 of the
        Building Control Act 1989 in respect of any building
        which forms part of the amusement ride or to which the
        amusement ride is connected;

    (d) the Commissioner of Civil Defence has issued a certificate
         of compliance under section 36 in respect of the fire and
         rescue management system of the amusement ride, and the
         fire and rescue management system of the amusement ride
         complies with such requirements (if any) as may be
         prescribed under section 38;

    (e) there will be in force for the duration of the operating
        permit (if issued) an insurance covering the person
        responsible for the amusement ride against liability for
        any injury to, or the death of, any person arising out of the
        operation or use of the amusement ride in an amount that is
        not less than the prescribed minimum limit; and

    (f) the applicant has appointed at least one ride manager under
        section 16 to oversee, manage and supervise the daily
        routine operation and maintenance of the amusement ride
        at all times when the amusement ride is in operation.

 (4) If any direction given by the Commissioner under
subsection (2)(b) is not complied with within the time specified in
that direction, or such further period as the Commissioner may allow,
the Commissioner may dismiss the application.

Duration and renewal of operating permit

 15.—(1) An operating permit —

       (a) is valid, unless it has earlier lapsed or been revoked or
            suspended, for such period, not exceeding 12 months

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   34

          starting on the date of its issue, as may be specified in the
          operating permit; and

(b) may be renewed upon its expiry.

 (2) An application for the renewal of an operating permit must be
made in accordance with the prescribed requirements.

Appointment of ride managers

 16.—(1) The holder of an operating permit in respect of an
amusement ride must appoint at least one suitably qualified and
trained person as a ride manager to oversee, manage and supervise the
daily routine operation and maintenance of the amusement ride.

 (2) If any ride manager appointed under subsection (1) in respect of
an amusement ride for any reason vacates his or her appointment —

       (a) both the holder of the operating permit and the ride
            manager must each, within 14 days after the vacation of the
            appointment, notify the Commissioner of that fact; and

       (b) the holder of the operating permit must —

               (i) without delay appoint under subsection (1) another
                   ride manager to substitute the firstmentioned ride
                   manager; and

              (ii) within 7 days thereafter, notify the Commissioner of
                   that substitute appointment.

 (3) If a ride manager who vacates his or her office is the only ride
manager who has been appointed in respect of the amusement ride,
the holder of the operating permit must not commence or (as the case
may be) must immediately cease the operation of the amusement ride
until the holder of the operating permit has appointed a substitute ride
manager under subsection (2)(b)(i) and notified the Commissioner of
the substitute appointment under subsection (2)(b)(ii).

 (4) The holder of an operating permit who contravenes
subsection (1) or (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 6 months or to both; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

35  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    (b) in respect of a continuing contravention, to an additional
         fine not exceeding $500 for each day or part of a day
         during which the contravention continues,

and if the contravention continues after the conviction, the holder of
the operating permit shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be
liable on conviction of this further offence to a further fine not
exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
contravention continues after conviction.

 (5) A ride manager who has vacated his or her appointment and
contravenes subsection (2)(a) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

 (6) The holder of an operating permit who contravenes
subsection (2)(a) or (b)(ii) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

Duties of ride managers in respect of operation of amusement
ride

 17.—(1) Every ride manager of an amusement ride must —

       (a) take all reasonable steps and exercise all due diligence to
            oversee, manage and supervise the daily routine operation
            and maintenance of the amusement ride in accordance
            with —

               (i) the conditions of the operating permit issued in
                   respect of the amusement ride;

              (ii) the prescribed requirements; and

             (iii) any direction given by the Commissioner in respect
                   of the operation of the amusement ride; and

       (b) carry out such other duties as may be prescribed.

 (2) Any ride manager who contravenes subsection (1)(a) or (b)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 6 months or to both; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   36

(b) in respect of a continuing contravention, to an additional
     fine not exceeding $500 for each day or part of a day
     during which the contravention continues,

and if the contravention continues after the conviction, the ride
manager shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be liable on
conviction of this further offence to a further fine not exceeding
$1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the contravention
continues after conviction.

Operation of amusement ride

 18.—(1) It is the duty of the holder of an operating permit to take all
reasonable steps and exercise all due diligence to —

       (a) ensure that at all times the amusement ride is operated
            safely and in a manner which —

               (i) does not endanger, and is not likely to endanger, the
                   safety of persons who are using or operating, or in
                   the vicinity of, the amusement ride;

              (ii) is in accordance with the operating method of the
                   amusement ride; and

             (iii) complies with —

                    (A) the conditions of the operating permit issued in
                          respect of the amusement ride;

                     (B) the prescribed requirements; and

                     (C) any direction given by the Commissioner in
                          respect of the operation of the amusement ride;
                          and

       (b) take every precaution as is reasonable in the circumstances
            for the protection of persons who are using or operating, or
            in the vicinity of, the amusement ride.

 (2) Where the Commissioner is of the opinion that an amusement
ride has been or is being operated in a manner that is in contravention
of any requirement under subsection (1), the Commissioner may,
without revoking or suspending the operating permit under
section 22, direct the holder of an operating permit to —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

37  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    (a) cease the operation of the amusement ride, either
         immediately or within such time as the Commissioner
         may specify; and

    (b) take, at the expense of the holder of the operating permit,
         such remedial measures as the Commissioner may require,

and the operation of the amusement ride must not be resumed without
the written consent of the Commissioner.

 (3) The Commissioner may, upon an application made by the
holder of the operating permit in such form and manner as the
Commissioner may require, grant his or her consent for the operation
of the amusement ride to resume if he or she is satisfied that the
operation of the amusement ride, if allowed to resume —

    (a) will comply with the requirements under subsection (1);
         and

    (b) will not pose a danger to any person.

 (4) The holder of an operating permit who contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

    (a) to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
         term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

    (b) in respect of a continuing contravention, to an additional
         fine not exceeding $500 for each day or part of a day
         during which the contravention continues,

and if the contravention continues after the conviction, the holder of
the operating permit shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be
liable on conviction of this further offence to a further fine not
exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
contravention continues after conviction.

 (5) Where the holder of an operating permit to whom a direction has
been given by the Commissioner under subsection (2) —

    (a) fails to comply with the direction; or

    (b) resumes the operation of the amusement ride without the
         written consent of the Commissioner,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   38

the holder of the operating permit shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Duty to notify Commissioner of contravention of Act in
relation to operation of amusement ride

 19.—(1) If the holder of an operating permit or any ride manager
knows or ought reasonably to know of any contravention of this Act
relating to the operation of the amusement ride, it is the duty of that
person to notify the Commissioner, as soon as practicable, of the
contravention.

 (2) Any person to whom subsection (1) applies who contravenes
that subsection shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

 (3) It is a defence in any prosecution for a contravention of
subsection (1) for the person charged to prove to the satisfaction of
the court that the person did not know and could not reasonably have
discovered the contravention referred to in the charge.

Alteration of conditions of operating permit

 20.—(1) The Commissioner may —

       (a) on his or her own volition; or

       (b) on an application made by the holder of an operating
            permit,

at any time alter (whether by adding to, varying or revoking) the
conditions of an operating permit.

 (2) Before the Commissioner alters the conditions of an operating
permit on his or her own volition under subsection (1)(a), the
Commissioner must give written notice to the holder of the operating
permit —

       (a) stating that the Commissioner proposes to alter the
            conditions of the operating permit in the manner
            specified in the notice; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

39  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    (b) specifying the time (being not less than 14 days from the
         date the notice is served on the holder of the operating
         permit) within which written representations with respect
         to the proposed alteration of conditions may be made.

 (3) Upon receiving any written representation mentioned in
subsection (2)(b), the Commissioner must consider the
representation and may reject the representation or amend the
proposed alteration of conditions in accordance with the
representation and, in either event, must issue a written direction to
the holder of the operating permit —

    (a) specifying the alteration made to the conditions of the
         operating permit; and

    (b) requiring the holder of the operating permit to comply with
         the altered conditions of the operating permit as from the
         date specified in the direction.

 (4) An application under subsection (1)(b) to alter the conditions of
an operating permit must be made to the Commissioner in such form
and manner as the Commissioner may require and —

    (a) specify the alteration required by the applicant and the
         reasons therefor; and

    (b) be accompanied by —

    (i) such documents and particulars as the Commissioner
        may require; and

    (ii) the prescribed fee.

 (5) Where the Commissioner decides to alter the conditions of an
operating permit pursuant to an application made under
subsection (1)(b), the Commissioner must issue a written direction
to the holder of the operating permit —

    (a) specifying the alteration made to the conditions of the
         operating permit; and

    (b) requiring the holder of the operating permit to comply with
         the altered conditions of the operating permit as from the
         date specified in the direction.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   40

Operating permit not transferable

 21. An operating permit is not transferable by its holder to any other
person, and any such purported transfer of any operating permit is
void.

Lapsing, revocation and suspension of operating permit

 22.—(1) An operating permit automatically lapses —

       (a) if the holder of the operating permit —

               (i) dies, is wound up or otherwise dissolved, whether in
                   Singapore or elsewhere; or

              (ii) ceases to be the operator of the amusement ride;

       (b) if the insurance required under section 13(1)(b)(iii) ceases
            to be in force; or

       (c) in the event of such other occurrence or in such other
            circumstances as may be prescribed.

 (2) The Commissioner may revoke an operating permit if —

       (a) the amusement ride (not being an amusement ride that is
            capable of being relocated) has not been in operation for a
            continuous period of more than 3 months;

       (b) in the Commissioner’s opinion, the holder of the operating
            permit has contravened or is contravening, or the operation
            of the amusement ride has been or is being carried out in a
            manner which contravenes —

               (i) any condition of the operating permit;

              (ii) any prescribed requirement; or

             (iii) any direction given by the Commissioner in respect
                   of the operation of the amusement ride;

       (c) the Commissioner has reason to believe that the operating
            permit had been obtained by fraud or misrepresentation;

       (d) the Commissioner becomes aware of any circumstance that
            would have required or permitted him or her to refuse to
            issue the operating permit had the Commissioner been

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

41  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    aware of the circumstance immediately before issuing the
    operating permit; or

    (e) the Commissioner considers it in the public interest to
        revoke the operating permit.

 (3) The Commissioner may, if he or she considers it desirable to do
so —

    (a) suspend an operating permit for a specific period instead of
         revoking it under subsection (2); and

    (b) at any time extend or rescind the suspension.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), the Commissioner must not revoke or
suspend an operating permit under subsection (2) or (3) without
giving the holder of the operating permit an opportunity to be heard in
accordance with the prescribed procedure.

 (5) The Commissioner may revoke or suspend an operating permit
without giving the holder of the operating permit an opportunity to be
heard if —

    (a) the holder of the operating permit —

    (i) has been declared bankrupt or has gone into
        compulsory or voluntary liquidation other than for
        the purpose of amalgamation or reconstruction; or

    (ii) is in the course of being wound up or otherwise
         dissolved, whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

    (b) a receiver, a receiver and manager or an equivalent person
         has been appointed, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, in
         relation to or in respect of any property of the holder of the
         operating permit;

    (c) the holder of the operating permit has been convicted —

    (i) of an offence under this Act; or

    (ii) whether in Singapore or elsewhere, of an offence
         involving fraud or dishonesty or the conviction for
         which involved a finding that the holder of the
         operating permit had acted fraudulently or
         dishonestly; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   42

(d) the Commissioner of Civil Defence has, under section 37,
     withdrawn the certificate of compliance that has been
     issued in respect of the fire and rescue management system
     of the amusement ride being operated by the holder of the
     operating permit.

                                    PART 4

       MAJOR MODIFICATION OF AMUSEMENT RIDES

Requirement for modification permit

 23.—(1) A person must not carry out or cause any major
modification to be carried out to any amusement ride unless that
major modification is authorised by, and is carried out in accordance
with the conditions of, a valid modification permit.

 (2) Any person who commences or carries out, or who permits or
authorises the commencement or carrying out of, any modification
works in contravention of subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $200,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 2 years or to both; and

       (b) in respect of a continuing contravention, to an additional
            fine not exceeding $1,000 for each day or part of a day
            during which the contravention continues,

and if the contravention continues after the conviction, the person
shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be liable on conviction of
this further offence to a further fine not exceeding $2,000 for every
day or part of a day during which the contravention continues after
conviction.

 (3) If any modification works are being carried out in contravention
of subsection (1), the Commissioner may —

       (a) by written notice, require the person who is carrying out, or
            who has caused, permitted or authorised the carrying out
            of, the modification works to take or cause to be taken, at
            the expense of such person and within such time as may be
            stipulated in the notice, all such measures as may be

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

43  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    specified in the notice to secure the cessation of the
    modification works; or

    (b) take or cause to be taken all measures that the
         Commissioner thinks necessary to secure the cessation of
         the modification works and recover from the person
         mentioned in paragraph (a) by way of a civil suit all
         costs and expenses reasonably incurred by the
         Commissioner in taking or causing those measures to be
         taken.

 (4) If the person on whom a notice under subsection (3)(a) is served
fails to comply with the notice within the time stipulated in the
notice —

    (a) that person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
         on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
         imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
         both; and

    (b) the Commissioner may take or cause to be taken all
         measures that he or she thinks necessary to secure the
         cessation of the modification works, including those
         measures specified in the notice, and recover from the
         person in default by way of a civil suit all costs and
         expenses reasonably incurred by the Commissioner in
         taking or causing those measures to be taken.

 (5) The measures mentioned in subsections (3)(a) and (b) and
(4)(b) include —

    (a) the closure or cordoning off of the premises on which the
         modification works are being carried out; and

    (b) the dismantling of any part of the amusement ride on which
         the modification works have been or are being carried out.

 (6) In addition to the powers exercisable by him or her under
subsection (3) or (4), the Commissioner may, if he or she thinks it
necessary for securing the cessation of any modification works being
carried out in contravention of subsection (1), seize and detain —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   44

(a) any machinery, equipment or plant connected or used in
     connection with the amusement ride being modified or
     with the modification works relating thereto; or

(b) any component that has been or is to be incorporated into
     the amusement ride in connection with the modification
     works.

 (7) Section 51(2) applies to any item seized and detained under
subsection (6).

Application for and issue of modification permit

 24.—(1) An application for a modification permit must —

       (a) be made to the Commissioner in such form and manner as
            the Commissioner may require;

       (b) be submitted to the Commissioner together with such
            documents and particulars as the Commissioner may
            require; and

       (c) be accompanied by the prescribed fee.

 (2) A person who wishes to obtain a modification permit must,
before making an application under subsection (1) —

       (a) appoint a qualified person to —

               (i) review the design and specifications and the
                   proposed modification method and programme of
                   the major modification of the amusement ride and
                   certify that they conform to the prescribed
                   requirements;

              (ii) supervise the modification works; and

             (iii) inspect and certify the amusement ride under
                   section 30 upon the completion of its major
                   modification,

       (a) for which purpose either the same qualified person may be
            appointed to carry out all of the functions mentioned in
            sub‑paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii), or a different qualified

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

45  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    person may be appointed to carry out each of those
    functions;

    (b) where applicable, apply, in accordance with section 5 or
         5A of the Building Control Act 1989, to the Commissioner
         of Building Control for approval of the plans of any
         building works relating to any building which forms part of
         the amusement ride to be modified or to which the
         amusement ride is connected, or (as the case may be)
         ensure that the conditions in section 5AA(2) of that Act are
         satisfied in relation to such plans; and

                                                                        [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

    (c) apply, in accordance with section 36, to the Commissioner
         of Civil Defence for approval of the design and plans of the
         fire and rescue management system of the amusement ride
         as proposed to be modified.

 (3) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1) and the
accompanying documents and particulars, the Commissioner may —

    (a) subject to subsection (4), issue a modification permit to the
         applicant —

    (i) in such form or manner as the Commissioner may
        determine; and

    (ii) subject to such conditions as the Commissioner
         thinks fit to impose;

    (b) in writing direct the applicant, at the applicant’s own
         expense and within the time specified in the direction, to —

    (i) make such alterations or amendments as the
        Commissioner may require to either or both the
        design and specifications and the proposed
        modification method and programme of the major
        modification;

    (ii) take such measures as the Commissioner may
         specify for the purpose of ensuring that the
         modification works will conform to the prescribed
         requirements; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.             Act 2011                                        46

          (iii) resubmit the application for the modification permit
                upon having made those alterations or amendments
                or taken those measures; or

          (c) refuse to issue the modification permit, in which case the
              Commissioner must, if requested to do so by the applicant,
              state in writing the reasons for the refusal.

 (4) The Commissioner must not issue a modification permit unless
the Commissioner is satisfied that —

(a) the applicant —

          (i) is a fit and appropriate person to be issued a
              modification permit; and

          (ii) satisfies the prescribed requirements;

(b) the design and specifications and the proposed
     modification method and programme of the major
     modification have been reviewed in accordance with
     section 46 by a qualified person appointed by the
     applicant under subsection (2)(a)(i) and certified by the
     qualified person as conforming to the prescribed
     requirements;

(c) where applicable, the plans of any building works relating
     to any building which forms part of the amusement ride to
     be modified, or to which the amusement ride is to be
     connected, have been approved or deemed approved by the
     Commissioner of Building Control under section 5, 5A or
     5AA of the Building Control Act 1989;

                                                                    [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

(d) the design and plans of the fire and rescue management
     system of the amusement ride as proposed to be modified
     have been approved by the Commissioner of Civil Defence
     under section 36(3)(a); and

          (e) the modification works will be carried out under the
              supervision of a qualified person appointed by the
              applicant under subsection (2)(a)(ii) (whether or not the
              qualified person is the same qualified person mentioned in
              paragraph (b) or a different qualified person).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

47  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

 (5) If any direction given by the Commissioner under
subsection (3)(b) is not complied with within the time specified in
the direction, or such further period as the Commissioner may allow,
the Commissioner may dismiss the application.

Carrying out of modification works

 25.—(1) The holder of a modification permit must ensure that no
modification works are carried out except under the supervision of a
qualified person.

 (2) It is the duty of —

       (a) the holder of a modification permit;

       (b) any person who is directly engaged in the carrying out of
            the modification works authorised by the modification
            permit; and

       (c) the qualified person supervising the modification works,

to ensure that the modification works are at all times carried out in
accordance with —

       (d) the design and specifications and the proposed
            modification method and programme, as authorised by
            the modification permit;

       (e) the conditions of the modification permit;

        (f) the prescribed requirements; and

       (g) any direction given by the Commissioner in respect of the
            modification works.

 (3) Where, in relation to any modification works or part thereof, the
Commissioner is of the opinion that —

       (a) any requirement under subsection (1) or (2) has not been or
            is not being complied with; or

       (b) the modification works are dangerous or liable to pose a
            danger to persons who are employed in connection with the
            modification works, or who are using or operating, or in
            the vicinity of, the amusement ride being modified,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   48

the Commissioner may, without revoking or suspending the
modification permit under section 29, direct the holder of the
modification permit or the person directly engaged in carrying out the
modification works to —

          (c) cease the modification works or part thereof, either
              immediately or within such time as may be specified by
              the Commissioner; and

(d) where necessary, take, at the expense of the person to
     whom the direction is given, such remedial measures as the
     Commissioner may require,

and the modification works or part thereof (as the case may be) must
not be resumed without the written consent of the Commissioner.

 (4) The Commissioner may, upon an application made by the
holder of the modification permit in such form and manner as the
Commissioner may require, grant his or her consent for the
modification works or any part thereof to resume if he or she is
satisfied that any such modification works or part thereof, if allowed
to resume —

(a) will comply with the requirements under subsections (1)
     and (2); and

(b) will not pose a danger to any person.

 (5) The holder of a modification permit who contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

(a) to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

(b) in respect of a continuing contravention, to an additional
     fine not exceeding $500 for each day or part of a day
     during which the contravention continues,

and if the contravention continues after the conviction, the holder of
the modification permit shall be guilty of a further offence and shall
be liable on conviction of this further offence to a further fine not
exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
contravention continues after conviction.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

49  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

 (6) Any person to whom subsection (2) applies who contravenes
that subsection shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

    (a) to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
         term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

    (b) in respect of a continuing contravention, to an additional
         fine not exceeding $500 for each day or part of a day
         during which the contravention continues,

and if the contravention continues after the conviction, the person
shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be liable on conviction of
this further offence to a further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every
day or part of a day during which the contravention continues after
conviction.

 (7) Any person who is directly engaged in the carrying out of any
modification works and who, in carrying out those modification
works, deviates or permits or authorises any deviation, in any
material way from the design and specifications or the proposed
modification method and programme authorised by the modification
permit, shall, unless that deviation has been submitted to and
approved by the Commissioner in accordance with the regulations, be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (8) Where a person to whom a direction has been given by the
Commissioner under subsection (3) —

    (a) fails to comply with the direction; or

    (b) resumes the modification works without the written
         consent of the Commissioner,

that person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
              Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.      Act 2011                                               50

Duty to notify Commissioner of contravention of Act in
relation to modification works

26.—(1) If —

(a) the holder of a modification permit;

(b) any person who is directly engaged in the carrying out of
     the modification works authorised by the modification
     permit; or

          (c) the qualified person supervising the modification works,

knows or ought reasonably to know of any contravention of this Act
relating to the carrying out of the modification works, it is the duty of
that person to notify the Commissioner, as soon as practicable, of the
contravention.

 (2) Any person to whom subsection (1) applies who contravenes
that subsection shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

 (3) It is a defence in any prosecution for a contravention of
subsection (1) for the person charged to prove to the satisfaction of
the court that the person did not know and could not reasonably have
discovered the contravention referred to in the charge.

Alteration of conditions of modification permit

 27.—(1) The Commissioner may —

       (a) on his or her own volition; or

       (b) on an application made by the holder of a modification
            permit,

at any time alter (whether by adding to, varying or revoking) the
conditions of a modification permit.

 (2) Before the Commissioner alters the conditions of a modification
permit on his or her own volition under subsection (1)(a), the
Commissioner must give written notice to the holder of the
modification permit —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

51  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    (a) stating that the Commissioner proposes to alter the
         conditions of the modification permit in the manner
         specified in the notice; and

    (b) specifying the time (being not less than 14 days from the
         date the notice is served on the holder of the modification
         permit) within which written representations with respect
         to the proposed alteration of conditions may be made.

 (3) Upon receiving any written representation mentioned in
subsection (2)(b), the Commissioner must consider the
representation and may reject the representation or amend the
proposed alteration of conditions in accordance with the
representation and, in either event, must thereupon issue a written
direction to the holder of the modification permit —

    (a) specifying the alteration made to the conditions of the
         modification permit; and

    (b) requiring the holder of the modification permit to comply
         with the altered conditions of the modification permit as
         from the date specified in the direction.

 (4) An application under subsection (1)(b) to alter the conditions of
a modification permit must be made to the Commissioner in such
form and manner as the Commissioner may require and must —

    (a) specify the alteration required by the applicant and the
         reasons therefor; and

    (b) be accompanied by —

    (i) such documents and particulars as the Commissioner
        may require; and

    (ii) the prescribed fee.

 (5) Where the Commissioner decides to alter the conditions of a
modification permit pursuant to an application made under
subsection (1)(b), the Commissioner must issue a written direction
to the holder of the modification permit —

    (a) specifying the alteration made to the conditions of the
         modification permit; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   52

(b) requiring the holder of the modification permit to comply
     with the altered conditions of the modification permit as
     from the date specified in the direction.

Modification permit not transferable

 28. A modification permit is not transferable by its holder to any
other person, and any such purported transfer of any modification
permit is void.

Lapsing, revocation and suspension of modification permit

 29.—(1) A modification permit automatically lapses —

       (a) if the holder of the modification permit —

               (i) dies, is wound up or otherwise dissolved, whether in
                   Singapore or elsewhere; or

              (ii) ceases to be the person carrying out the modification
                   works or for whom the modification works are to be
                   carried out, as the case may be;

       (b) if the qualified person appointed by the holder of the
            modification permit under section 24(2)(a)(ii) to supervise
            the modification works has vacated his or her appointment
            and the holder of the modification permit has failed to
            appoint a substitute qualified person to supervise the
            modification works and to notify the Commissioner of the
            substitute appointment in accordance with
            section 44(1)(b)(i) and (ii); or

       (c) in the event of such other occurrence or in such other
            circumstances as may be prescribed.

 (2) The Commissioner may revoke a modification permit if —

       (a) the modification works authorised by the modification
            permit, having commenced, are suspended for a
            continuous period of more than 3 months;

       (b) in the Commissioner’s opinion, the holder of the
            modification permit has contravened or is contravening,
            or the modification works authorised by the modification

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

53  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    permit have been or are being carried out in a manner
    which contravenes —

    (i) any condition of the modification permit;

    (ii) any prescribed requirement; or

    (iii) any direction given by the Commissioner in respect
          of the modification works;

    (c) the Commissioner has reason to believe that the
        modification permit had been obtained by fraud or
        misrepresentation;

    (d) the Commissioner becomes aware of any circumstance that
         would have required or permitted him or her to refuse to
         issue the modification permit had the Commissioner been
         aware of the circumstance immediately before issuing the
         modification permit; or

    (e) the Commissioner considers it in the public interest to
        revoke the modification permit.

 (3) The Commissioner may, if he or she considers it desirable to do
so —

    (a) suspend a modification permit for a specific period instead
         of revoking it under subsection (2); and

    (b) at any time extend or rescind the suspension.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), the Commissioner must not revoke or
suspend a modification permit under subsection (2) or (3) without
giving the holder of the modification permit an opportunity to be
heard in accordance with the prescribed procedure.

 (5) The Commissioner may revoke or suspend a modification
permit without giving the holder of the modification permit an
opportunity to be heard if —

    (a) the holder of the modification permit —

    (i) has been declared bankrupt or has gone into
        compulsory or voluntary liquidation other than for
        the purpose of amalgamation or reconstruction; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   54

          (ii) is in the course of being wound up or otherwise
               dissolved, whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

(b) a receiver, a receiver and manager or an equivalent person
     has been appointed, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, in
     relation to or in respect of any property of the holder of the
     modification permit; or

          (c) the holder of the modification permit has been
              convicted —

          (i) of an offence under this Act; or

          (ii) whether in Singapore or elsewhere, of an offence
               involving fraud or dishonesty or the conviction for
               which involved a finding that the holder of the
               modification permit had acted fraudulently or
               dishonestly.

Inspection and certification of amusement ride after major
modification

 30. Upon the completion of the major modification of an
amusement ride —

       (a) the qualified person appointed by the holder of the
            modification permit under section 24(2)(a)(iii) must, in
            accordance with section 46, inspect the amusement ride
            and issue a certificate stating that, in the qualified person’s
            opinion —

               (i) the modification works have been properly carried
                   out in accordance with —

                    (A) the design and specifications and the proposed
                          modification method and programme, as
                          authorised by the modification permit;

                     (B) the conditions of the modification permit;

                     (C) the prescribed requirements; and

                    (D) any direction given by the Commissioner in
                          respect of the modification works; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

55  Act 2011                                2020 Ed.

    (ii) the amusement ride, as modified —

    (A) conforms to the prescribed requirements; and

    (B) is in a safe working condition and fit for
         operation; and

    (b) the holder of the modification permit must, in accordance
         with section 36, apply to and obtain from the
         Commissioner of Civil Defence a certificate of
         compliance in respect of the fire and rescue management
         system of the amusement ride as so modified.

                                    PART 5

       MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, MINOR MODIFICATION
           AND RELOCATION OF AMUSEMENT RIDES

Amusement ride to be maintained in safe condition

 31.—(1) It is the duty of the person responsible for an amusement
ride —

       (a) to ensure that the amusement ride is at all times maintained
            in a state of good repair and in a safe working condition;
            and

       (b) to comply with such directions as the Commissioner may
            give concerning the maintenance and safety of the
            amusement ride.

 (2) If the person responsible for an amusement ride contravenes
subsection (1), that person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

       (b) in respect of a continuing contravention, to an additional
            fine not exceeding $500 for each day or part of a day
            during which the contravention continues,

and if the contravention continues after the conviction, the person
shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be liable on conviction of
this further offence to a further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   56

day or part of a day during which the contravention continues after
conviction.

Commissioner may require repairs and modifications to
amusement ride

 32.—(1) The Commissioner may by written notice require the
person responsible for an amusement ride —

       (a) to carry out, at the expense of that person and within the
            time specified in the notice, any repairs or modifications to
            the amusement ride that the Commissioner considers
            necessary for —

               (i) the proper maintenance of the amusement ride; and

              (ii) the safety of persons who are using or operating, or
                   in the vicinity of, the amusement ride; and

       (b) if the Commissioner thinks necessary, to close or cordon
            off the amusement ride until all those repairs and
            modifications to the amusement ride have been
            completed to the Commissioner’s satisfaction.

 (2) Where at any time there exists, in the Commissioner’s opinion,
any circumstance requiring the immediate putting into effect of any
repairs or modifications mentioned in subsection (1) in respect of an
amusement ride, the Commissioner may by written notice order the
immediate closure or cordoning off of the amusement ride and the
prohibition of its use by members of the public until all those repairs
and modifications have been completed to his or her satisfaction.

 (3) If a person responsible for an amusement ride fails to comply
with a notice given to the person under subsection (1) or (2), the
person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 6 months or to both; and

       (b) in respect of a continuing failure to comply, to an
            additional fine not exceeding $500 for each day or part
            of a day during which the failure to comply continues,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

57  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

and if the failure to comply continues after the conviction, the person
shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be liable on conviction of
this further offence to a further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every
day or part of a day during which the failure to comply continues after
conviction.

Duty to notify Commissioner of minor modification of
amusement ride

 33.—(1) Where any minor modification is to be carried out on any
amusement ride, the person responsible for the amusement ride must
give the Commissioner written notice of the intended minor
modification —

       (a) in such form and manner as the Commissioner may
            require; and

       (b) of not less than one month (or such shorter period as the
            Commissioner may allow in any particular case) before the
            date on which the modification works are to commence.

 (2) Upon receiving a notice under subsection (1), the
Commissioner may, by written notice —

       (a) require the person responsible for the amusement ride to
            provide, within the time specified in the notice, such
            further information concerning the minor modification as
            the Commissioner may specify before commencing the
            modification works;

       (b) impose any conditions or give any directions that the
            Commissioner thinks fit subject to which the modification
            works are to be carried out; or

       (c) if the Commissioner is of the opinion that the modification
            works amount to a major modification of the amusement
            ride, prohibit the commencement of the modification
            works and direct the person responsible for the
            amusement ride to apply for a modification permit instead.

 (3) If any person responsible for an amusement ride —

       (a) contravenes subsection (1); or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   58

(b) fails to comply with any requirement of the Commissioner
     under subsection (2)(a) or with any condition, direction or
     prohibition that is imposed, given or made by the
     Commissioner under subsection (2)(b) or (c), as the case
     may be,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

          (c) to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
              term not exceeding 6 months or to both; and

(d) in respect of a continuing contravention or failure to
     comply, to an additional fine not exceeding $500 for each
     day or part of a day during which the contravention or
     failure to comply continues,

and if the contravention or failure to comply continues after the
conviction, the person shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be
liable on conviction of this further offence to a further fine not
exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
contravention or failure to comply continues after conviction.

Relocation of amusement ride

 34.—(1) The holder of an operating permit in respect of an
amusement ride that is capable of being relocated must not relocate or
cause that amusement ride to be relocated unless the holder of the
operating permit has given the Commissioner written notice of his,
her or its intention to so relocate the amusement ride —

       (a) in such form and manner as the Commissioner may
            require; and

       (b) of not less than the prescribed period before the date on
            which the relocation is to be carried out.

 (2) Upon receiving a notice under subsection (1), the
Commissioner may, by written notice —

       (a) require the holder of the operating permit to provide,
            within the time specified in the notice, such further
            information concerning the relocation of the amusement

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

59  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    ride as the Commissioner may specify before the
    relocation works are carried out;

    (b) impose any conditions or give any directions that the
         Commissioner thinks fit subject to which the relocation
         works are to be carried out; or

    (c) if the Commissioner is of the opinion that the premises to
        which the amusement ride is to be relocated are unsafe or
        unsuitable for the operation of the amusement ride,
        prohibit the relocation of the amusement ride.

(3) If the holder of the operating permit —

    (a) contravenes subsection (1); or

    (b) fails to comply with any requirement of the Commissioner
         under subsection (2)(a) or with any condition, direction or
         prohibition that is imposed, given or made by the
         Commissioner under subsection (2)(b) or (c), as the case
         may be,

the holder of the operating permit shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction —

    (c) to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
        term not exceeding 6 months or to both; and

    (d) in respect of a continuing contravention or failure to
         comply, to an additional fine not exceeding $500 for each
         day or part of a day during which the contravention or
         failure to comply continues,

and if the contravention or failure to comply continues after the
conviction, the holder of the operating permit shall be guilty of a
further offence and shall be liable on conviction of this further
offence to a further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of
a day during which the contravention or failure to comply continues
after conviction.

 (4) The holder of the operating permit must ensure that no
relocation works are carried out in respect of an amusement ride
except under the supervision of —

    (a) the ride manager of the amusement ride; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.                 Act 2011                                    60

(b) in the case of a major amusement ride, a qualified person.

(5) It is the duty of —

(a) the holder of the operating permit;

(b) any person who is directly engaged in the carrying out of
     the relocation works; and

          (c) the ride manager or qualified person (as the case may be)
              supervising the relocation works,

to ensure that the relocation works are at all times carried out in
accordance with —

(d) where applicable, the design and specifications and the
     proposed installation method and programme, as
     authorised by the installation permit that has been issued
     in respect of the amusement ride;

          (e) the prescribed requirements; and

          (f) any condition imposed or direction given by the
              Commissioner under subsection (2) in respect of the
              relocation works.

 (6) Where, in relation to the relocation of an amusement ride, the
Commissioner is of the opinion that —

(a) any requirement under subsection (4) or (5) has not been or
     is not being complied with; or

(b) the relocation works are dangerous or liable to pose a
     danger to persons who are employed in connection with the
     relocation works, or who are using or operating, or in the
     vicinity of, the amusement ride,

the Commissioner may direct the holder of the operating permit in
respect of the amusement ride or the person directly engaged in
carrying out the relocation works to —

          (c) cease the relocation works or part thereof, either
              immediately or within such time as may be specified by
              the Commissioner; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

61  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    (d) where necessary, take, at the expense of the person to
         whom the direction is given, such remedial measures as the
         Commissioner may require,

and those relocation works or part thereof (as the case may be) must
not be resumed without the written consent of the Commissioner.

 (7) The Commissioner may, upon an application made by the
holder of the operating permit in such form and manner as the
Commissioner may require, grant his or her consent for the relocation
works or any part thereof to resume if he or she is satisfied that any
such relocation works or part thereof, if allowed to resume —

    (a) will comply with the requirements under subsections (4)
         and (5); and

    (b) will not pose a danger to any person.

(8) Upon the completion of the relocation of an amusement ride —

    (a) the ride manager or qualified person who supervised the
         relocation works must inspect the amusement ride and
         issue a certificate stating that, in the opinion of the ride
         manager or qualified person, as the case may be —

    (i) the relocation works have been properly carried out
        in accordance with —

    (A) where applicable, the design and specifications
         and the proposed installation method and
         programme, as authorised by the installation
         permit that has been issued in respect of the
         amusement ride;

    (B) the prescribed requirements; and

    (C) any condition imposed or direction given by
         the Commissioner under subsection (2) in
         respect of the relocation works; and

    (ii) the amusement ride, as relocated —

    (A) conforms to the prescribed requirements; and

    (B) is in a safe working condition and fit for
         operation; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
             Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.     Act 2011                                                62

(b) the holder of the operating permit —

          (i) must, in the case only of a major amusement ride,
              apply to and obtain from the Commissioner of Civil
              Defence, in accordance with section 36, a certificate
              of compliance in respect of the fire and rescue
              management system of the amusement ride; and

          (ii) must not, in any case, resume operation of the
               amusement ride unless the holder of the operating
               permit has, in accordance with the prescribed
               requirements, submitted to the Commissioner the
               certificate issued by the ride manager or qualified
               person (as the case may be) under paragraph (a).

(9) Where —

(a) a person to whom the Commissioner has given a direction
     under subsection (6) —

          (i) fails to comply with the direction; or

          (ii) resumes the relocation works without the written
               consent of the Commissioner; or

(b) the holder of an operating permit, in contravention of
     subsection (8)(b)(ii), resumes the operation of an
     amusement ride without the written consent of the
     Commissioner,

the person or the holder of the operating permit (as the case may be)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Closure or cordoning off of amusement ride for safety reasons

 35.—(1) The person responsible for an amusement ride must
wholly or partially close or cordon off the amusement ride whenever
such action appears reasonably necessary —

       (a) for the safety of persons who are using or operating, or in
            the vicinity of, the amusement ride; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

63  Act 2011                2020 Ed.

    (b) in the case of the occurrence of any adverse incident in
         respect of the amusement ride.

 (2) The person responsible for an amusement ride must, as soon as
practicable, notify the Commissioner (in such form and manner as the
Commissioner may require) of any closure or cordoning off of the
amusement ride under subsection (1).

 (3) If a person responsible for an amusement ride contravenes
subsection (1), the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (4) If a person responsible for an amusement ride contravenes
subsection (2), the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

                                    PART 6
                APPROVAL AND CERTIFICATION OF
          FIRE AND RESCUE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Application for approval and certification of fire and rescue
management system
 36.—(1) An application for —
       (a) the approval of the design and plans of the fire and rescue
            management system of an amusement ride that is to be
            installed or undergo a major modification; or
       (b) a certificate of compliance in respect of the fire and rescue
            management system of an amusement ride,
must be made to the Commissioner of Civil Defence in such form and
manner as the Commissioner of Civil Defence may require.
 (2) An application under subsection (1) must —
       (a) be submitted to the Commissioner of Civil Defence
            together with such documents and particulars as the
            Commissioner of Civil Defence may require; and
       (b) be accompanied by the prescribed fee.

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   64

 (3) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1)(a) and the
accompanying documents and particulars, the Commissioner of Civil
Defence may —

(a) if satisfied that the fire and rescue management system as
     shown in the design and plans are adequate and workable,
     grant the approval applied for —

          (i) in such form or manner and for such duration as the
              Commissioner of Civil Defence may determine; and

          (ii) subject to such conditions as the Commissioner of
               Civil Defence thinks fit to impose;

(b) in writing direct the applicant, at the applicant’s own
     expense and within the time specified in the direction, to —

          (i) make such alterations or amendments as the
              Commissioner of Civil Defence may require to the
              design and plans of the fire and rescue management
              system;

          (ii) take such measures as the Commissioner of Civil
               Defence may specify for the purpose of ensuring that
               the fire and rescue management system will comply
               with such requirements (if any) as may be prescribed
               under section 38; and

          (iii) resubmit the application for the approval upon
                having made those alterations or amendments or
                taken those measures; or

          (c) refuse to grant the approval, in which case the
              Commissioner of Civil Defence must, if requested to do
              so by the applicant, state in writing the reasons for the
              refusal.

 (4) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1)(b) and the
accompanying documents and particulars, the Commissioner of Civil
Defence may inspect the fire and rescue management system of the
amusement ride in respect of which the application has been made,
and thereafter —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

65  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    (a) if satisfied that the fire and rescue management system —

    (i) accords with the design and plans in respect of which
        an approval has been granted under
        subsection (3)(a), where applicable;

    (ii) complies with such requirements (if any) as may be
         prescribed under section 38; and

    (iii) is adequate and workable,

    (a) issue the certificate of compliance applied for —

    (iv) in such form or manner and for such duration as the
         Commissioner of Civil Defence may determine; and

    (v) subject to such conditions as the Commissioner of
         Civil Defence thinks fit to impose;

    (b) in writing direct the applicant, at the applicant’s own
         expense and within the time specified in the direction, to —

    (i) make such modifications as the Commissioner of
        Civil Defence may require to the fire and rescue
        management system;

    (ii) take such measures as the Commissioner of Civil
         Defence may specify for the purpose of ensuring that
         the fire and rescue management system will comply
         with such requirements (if any) as may be prescribed
         under section 38; and

    (iii) resubmit the application for the certificate of
          compliance upon having made those modifications
          or taken those measures; or

    (c) refuse to grant the certificate of compliance, in which case
        the Commissioner of Civil Defence must, if requested to
        do so by the applicant, state in writing the reasons for the
        refusal.

 (5) If any direction given by the Commissioner of Civil Defence
under subsection (3)(b) or (4)(b) is not complied with within the time
specified in the direction, or such further period as may be allowed

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   66

by the Commissioner of Civil Defence in any particular case, the
Commissioner of Civil Defence may dismiss the application.

Withdrawal of approval or certificate of compliance

 37.—(1) The Commissioner of Civil Defence may at any time
withdraw any approval granted under section 36(3)(a) or any
certificate of compliance if —

       (a) in the opinion of the Commissioner of Civil Defence —

               (i) the person to whom the approval has been granted or
                   the certificate of compliance issued has failed to
                   comply with any condition of the approval or
                   certificate of compliance; or

              (ii) the fire and rescue management system in respect of
                   which the approval has been granted or the certificate
                   of compliance issued no longer complies with any of
                   the conditions of the approval or certificate of
                   compliance (as the case may be) or any
                   requirement prescribed under section 38;

       (b) the Commissioner of Civil Defence has reason to believe
            that the approval or certificate of compliance had been
            obtained by fraud or misrepresentation; or

       (c) the Commissioner of Civil Defence becomes aware of any
            circumstance that would have required or permitted him or
            her to refuse to grant the approval or issue the certificate of
            compliance had the Commissioner of Civil Defence been
            aware of the circumstance immediately before granting the
            approval or issuing the certificate of compliance.

 (2) The Commissioner of Civil Defence must not exercise his or her
power under subsection (1) to withdraw any approval granted under
section 36(3)(a) or any certificate of compliance without giving the
person to whom the approval has been granted or the certificate of
compliance issued an opportunity to be heard in accordance with the
prescribed procedure.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

67                     Act 2011                                2020 Ed.

Regulations for purposes of this Part

 38. The Minister may, after consultation with the Commissioner of
Civil Defence, make such regulations as he or she may consider
necessary or expedient for giving effect to this Part and, in particular,
may make regulations —

    (a) relating to the making of applications under this Part; and

    (b) prescribing —

    (i) the requirements with which the fire and rescue
        management system of an amusement ride must
        comply;

    (ii) the procedure (including the carrying out of any
         inspection) for the renewal of any approval granted
         under section 36(3)(a) or any certificate of
         compliance;

    (iii) the fees payable for the purposes of this Part; and

    (iv) any other matters which are required to be prescribed
         for the purpose of this Part.

                                    PART 7

      PROVISIONS RELATING TO QUALIFIED PERSONS

Qualified person to be independent

 39.—(1) A person must not, for the purposes of this Act, appoint
any qualified person to —

       (a) review or certify any design and specifications, proposed
            installation method and programme or proposed
            modification method and programme in respect of any
            amusement ride;

       (b) supervise any installation works, modification works or
            relocation works;

       (c) inspect or certify any amusement ride; or

       (d) carry out any other function in respect of any amusement
            ride,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   68

if the person knows or ought reasonably to know that the qualified
person has any professional or financial interest in the amusement
ride or the operation thereof, or in the installation works, modification
works or relocation works that are being or are to be carried out in
respect of the amusement ride.

(2) A qualified person must not, for the purposes of this Act —

(a) review or certify any design and specifications, proposed
     installation method and programme or proposed
     modification method and programme in respect of any
     amusement ride;

(b) supervise any installation works, modification works or
     relocation works;

          (c) inspect or certify any amusement ride; or

(d) carry out any other function in respect of any amusement
     ride,

if the qualified person has any professional or financial interest in the
amusement ride or the operation thereof, or in the installation works,
modification works or relocation works that are being or are to be
carried out in respect of the amusement ride.

 (3) A qualified person is regarded as having a professional or
financial interest in an amusement ride or the operation thereof, or in
any installation works, modification works or relocation works that
are being or are to be carried out in respect of the amusement ride
if —

(a) the qualified person is or has, in any capacity, been
     responsible for, or is or has acted as a consultant in, the
     preparation of the design and specifications, proposed
     installation method and programme or proposed
     modification method and programme in respect of the
     amusement ride;

(b) the qualified person, or any nominee of the qualified
     person, is a member, an officer or an employee of any
     company or other body which has a professional or
     financial interest in the amusement ride or the operation

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

69  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    thereof, or in any installation works, modification works or
    relocation works that are being or are to be carried out in
    respect of the amusement ride;

    (c) the qualified person is a partner of, or is in the employment
        of, a person who has a professional or financial interest in
        the amusement ride or the operation thereof, or in any
        installation works, modification works or relocation works
        that are being or are to be carried out in respect of the
        amusement ride; or

    (d) the qualified person holds any interest in the amusement
         ride or any part thereof.

(4) For the purposes of this section —

    (a) a person is treated as having a professional or financial
         interest in an amusement ride or the operation thereof, or in
         any installation works, modification works or relocation
         works that are being or are to be carried out in respect of
         the amusement ride, even if the person has that interest
         only as trustee for the benefit of some other person; and

    (b) in the case of a husband and wife living together, the
         interest of one spouse is, if known to the other, deemed to
         be also an interest of the other.

(5) For the purposes of this section —

    (a) the carrying out of any function under this Act as a
         qualified person; and

    (b) the entitlement to any fee paid for carrying out any such
         function,

is not by itself regarded as constituting a professional or financial
interest.

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   70

Qualified person vacating appointment before issue of
installation permit

 40.—(1) If, at any time while an application for an installation
permit is pending before the Commissioner, the qualified person
appointed under section 6(2)(a)(i) by the applicant for the installation
permit should for any reason vacate his or her appointment —

(a) both the applicant for the installation permit and the
     qualified person must each, within 14 days after the
     vacation of the appointment, notify the Commissioner of
     that fact;

(b) the applicant for the installation permit must —

          (i) within such time as may be allowed by the
              Commissioner, appoint another qualified person to
              substitute for the qualified person who has vacated
              his or her appointment; and

          (ii) within 7 days thereafter, notify the Commissioner of
               that substitute appointment; and

          (c) the Commissioner must not consider the application for the
              installation permit until —

          (i) the applicant for the installation permit has, pursuant
              to paragraph (b), appointed a substitute qualified
              person and notified the Commissioner of the
              appointment; and

          (ii) the substitute qualified person has, in accordance
               with section 46 —

          (A) reviewed the design and specifications and the
               proposed installation method and programme
               of the amusement ride to be installed; and

          (B) issued a certificate stating that, in the opinion
               of the substitute qualified person, the design
               and specifications and the proposed installation
               method and programme of the amusement ride
               conform to the prescribed requirements.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

71  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1)(a) or (b)(ii) shall be guilty of an offence.

Qualified person vacating appointment during installation
works

 41.—(1) If the qualified person appointed under section 6(2)(a)(ii)
by the holder of an installation permit to supervise the carrying out of
any installation works should for any reason vacate his or her
appointment while the installation works are still in progress —

       (a) both the holder of the installation permit and the qualified
            person must each, within 14 days after the vacation of the
            appointment, notify the Commissioner of that fact; and

       (b) the holder of the installation permit must —

               (i) within such time as may be allowed by the
                   Commissioner, appoint another qualified person to
                   substitute for the qualified person who has vacated
                   his or her appointment;

              (ii) within 7 days thereafter, notify the Commissioner of
                   that substitute appointment; and

             (iii) ensure that the installation works are ceased until the
                   holder of the installation permit has complied with
                   sub‑paragraphs (i) and (ii).

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1)(a) or (b)(ii) shall be guilty of an offence.

 (3) If the holder of an installation permit contravenes
subsection (1)(b)(iii), the holder of the installation permit shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

       (b) in respect of a continuing contravention, to an additional
            fine not exceeding $500 for each day or part of a day
            during which the contravention continues,

and if the contravention continues after the conviction, the holder of
the installation permit shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   72

liable on conviction of this further offence to a further fine not
exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
contravention continues after conviction.

Qualified person vacating appointment before inspection or
certification of amusement ride under section 12

 42.—(1) If the qualified person appointed under section 6(2)(a)(iii)
by the holder of an installation permit to inspect and certify an
amusement ride under section 12 upon the completion of its
installation should for any reason vacate his or her appointment
before carrying out or completing the inspection or certification —

       (a) both the holder of the installation permit and the qualified
            person must each, within 14 days after the vacation of the
            appointment, notify the Commissioner of that fact; and

       (b) the holder of the installation permit must —

               (i) within such time as may be allowed by the
                   Commissioner, appoint another qualified person to
                   substitute for the qualified person who has vacated
                   his or her appointment; and

              (ii) within 7 days thereafter, notify the Commissioner of
                   that substitute appointment.

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1)(a) or (b)(ii) shall be guilty of an offence.

Qualified person vacating appointment before issue of
modification permit

 43.—(1) If, at any time while an application for a modification
permit is pending before the Commissioner, the qualified person
appointed under section 24(2)(a)(i) by the applicant for the
modification permit should for any reason vacate his or her
appointment —

       (a) both the applicant for the modification permit and the
            qualified person must each, within 14 days after the
            vacation of the appointment, notify the Commissioner of
            that fact;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

73  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    (b) the applicant for the modification permit must —

    (i) within such time as may be allowed by the
        Commissioner, appoint another qualified person to
        substitute for the qualified person who has vacated
        his or her appointment; and

    (ii) within 7 days thereafter, notify the Commissioner of
         that substitute appointment; and

    (c) the Commissioner must not consider the application for the
        modification permit until —

    (i) the applicant for the modification permit has,
        pursuant to paragraph (b), appointed a substitute
        qualified person and notified the Commissioner of
        the appointment; and

    (ii) the substitute qualified person has, in accordance
         with section 46 —

    (A) reviewed the design and specifications and the
         proposed modification method and programme
         of the major modification of the amusement
         ride; and

    (B) issued a certificate stating that, in the opinion
         of the substitute qualified person, the design
         and specifications and the proposed
         modification method and programme of the
         major modification of the amusement ride
         conform to the prescribed requirements.

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1)(a) or (b)(ii) shall be guilty of an offence.

Qualified person vacating appointment during modification
works

 44.—(1) If the qualified person appointed under section 24(2)(a)(ii)
by the holder of a modification permit to supervise the carrying out of
any modification works should for any reason vacate his or her
appointment while the modification works are still in progress —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   74

(a) both the holder of the modification permit and the qualified
     person must each, within 14 days after the vacation of the
     appointment, notify the Commissioner of that fact; and

(b) the holder of the modification permit must —

          (i) within such time as may be allowed by the
              Commissioner, appoint another qualified person to
              substitute for the qualified person who has vacated
              his or her appointment;

          (ii) within 7 days thereafter, notify the Commissioner of
               that substitute appointment; and

          (iii) ensure that the modification works are ceased until
                the holder of the modification permit has complied
                with sub‑paragraphs (i) and (ii).

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1)(a) or (b)(ii) shall be guilty of an offence.

 (3) If the holder of a modification permit contravenes
subsection (1)(b)(iii), the holder of the modification permit shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

(b) in respect of a continuing contravention, to an additional
     fine not exceeding $500 for each day or part of a day
     during which the contravention continues,

and if the contravention continues after the conviction, the holder of
the modification permit shall be guilty of a further offence and shall
be liable on conviction of this further offence to a further fine not
exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
contravention continues after conviction.

Qualified person vacating appointment before inspection or
certification of amusement ride under section 30

 45.—(1) If the qualified person appointed under
section 24(2)(a)(iii) by the holder of a modification permit to
inspect and certify an amusement ride under section 30 upon the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

75  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

completion of its major modification should for any reason vacate his
or her appointment before carrying out or completing the inspection
or certification —

    (a) both the holder of the modification permit and the qualified
         person must each, within 14 days after the vacation of the
         appointment, notify the Commissioner of that fact; and

    (b) the holder of the modification permit must —

    (i) within such time as may be allowed by the
        Commissioner, appoint another qualified person to
        substitute for the qualified person who has vacated
        his or her appointment; and

    (ii) within 7 days thereafter, notify the Commissioner of
         that substitute appointment.

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1)(a) or (b)(ii) shall be guilty of an offence.

Standard of skill, care and diligence to be exercised by
qualified persons

 46.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), every qualified person
appointed for the purposes of this Act to —

       (a) review and certify —

               (i) the design and specifications and the proposed
                   installation method and programme of an
                   amusement ride; or

              (ii) the design and specifications and the proposed
                   modification method and programme of the major
                   modification of an amusement ride;

       (b) supervise any installation works, modification works or
            relocation works;

       (c) inspect and certify any amusement ride; or

       (d) carry out any other function under this Act in respect of an
            amusement ride,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   76

must, when carrying out that function, exercise the standard of skill,
care and diligence that could reasonably be expected to be exercised
by a specialist professional engineer having the requisite specialised
knowledge and experience in carrying out functions of a similar
nature, scope and complexity.

 (2) Except as otherwise provided by subsections (3) and (5), a
qualified person must appoint and consider the opinion and advice of
a conformity assessor for the purpose of —

(a) reviewing and certifying —

          (i) the design and specifications and the proposed
              installation method and programme of a major
              amusement ride; or

          (ii) the design and specifications and the proposed
               modification method and programme of the major
               modification of a major amusement ride;

(b) supervising any installation works or modification works
     in respect of a major amusement ride;

          (c) inspecting and certifying any major amusement ride; or

(d) carrying out any other function under this Act in respect of
     a major amusement ride.

 (3) The Commissioner may, on the application of a qualified
person, waive the requirement for the qualified person to consult and
consider the opinion and advice of a conformity assessor as required
under subsection (2) if the Commissioner is satisfied that the
qualified person has the requisite qualifications, skill, expertise and
experience to carry out the functions mentioned in that subsection
without the assistance of a conformity assessor.

 (4) A qualified person who fails to comply with subsection (2) does
not commit an offence, but —

(a) the Commissioner may refuse to accept any certificate
     issued by the qualified person in respect of any major
     amusement ride for the purposes of any provision of this
     Act unless the Commissioner has granted a waiver to the
     qualified person under subsection (3); and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

77  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    (b) in any proceedings under this Act in which the question
         arises as to whether the qualified person has or has not
         exercised the standard of skill, care and diligence required
         of him or her, the failure of the qualified person to comply
         with subsection (2) is to be taken into consideration in the
         determination of that question.

 (5) Subsection (2) does not apply to a qualified person for the
purposes of section 34(4)(b) or (8)(a).

Other general duties of qualified persons

 47.—(1) Every qualified person who is appointed to carry out any
function under this Act in respect of an amusement ride must —

       (a) whenever required by the Commissioner, submit to the
            Commissioner in such form and manner and within such
            time as the Commissioner may allow such information and
            reports as may be prescribed or otherwise specified by the
            Commissioner concerning the amusement ride or any
            installation works, modification works or relocation works
            that are being or are to be carried out thereto;

       (b) notify the Commissioner if any such installation works or
            modification works (as the case may be) have been
            suspended for a period of more than 3 months; and

       (c) comply with such other duties as may be prescribed.

 (2) Any qualified person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 6 months or to both; and

       (b) in respect of a continuing contravention, to an additional
            fine not exceeding $500 for each day or part of a day
            during which the contravention continues,

and if the contravention continues after the conviction, the qualified
person shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be liable on
conviction of this further offence to a further fine not exceeding
$1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the contravention
continues after conviction.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.                  Act 2011                                   78

                          PART 8

          ENFORCEMENT

Provision of information

 48.—(1) The Commissioner or an enforcement officer may, for the
purposes of —

(a) conducting an investigation into —

          (i) any offence or suspected offence under this Act; or

          (ii) any adverse incident that has occurred in respect of
               an amusement ride; or

(b) otherwise discharging his or her functions under this Act,

by written notice require any person who appears to the
Commissioner or enforcement officer to be acquainted with the
facts or circumstances of the case under investigation or with the facts
or circumstances relating to the installation, operation, major or
minor modification, relocation, maintenance or repair of an
amusement ride (as the case may be) to provide to the
Commissioner or enforcement officer, within such time as may be
specified in the notice, any information or document which the
person knows or has in the person’s possession or which the person is
in a position to obtain regarding the case under investigation or the
amusement ride to which the notice relates.

 (2) Any person who fails to comply with a notice given to the
person by the Commissioner or an enforcement officer under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

 (3) It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under
subsection (2) to prove that the person did not know or have, and
could not with reasonable diligence have ascertained or obtained, the
information or document required.

Misrepresentation

 49.—(1) Any person who, for the purposes of obtaining any permit,
consent, certificate, approval, direction or other decision from the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

79  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

Commissioner under this Act, or who, in purported compliance with
any provision of this Act —

    (a) provides the Commissioner or an enforcement officer with
         any particulars or information which the person knows is
         false or misleading; or

    (b) submits to the Commissioner or an enforcement officer
         any declaration, certificate, report, record, notice or other
         document which —

    (i) contains any statement which the person knows to be
        false in a material particular or to have been
        recklessly made;

    (ii) has not been made by the person by whom it is
         purported to have been made; or

    (iii) has been in any way altered or tampered with,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (2) In this section, a reference to the Commissioner includes a
reference to the Commissioner of Civil Defence.

Power to enter and inspect premises

 50.—(1) The Commissioner or an enforcement officer may, at any
time and without warrant, enter any premises and inspect any
amusement ride that has been or is being installed, operated, modified
or relocated on the premises, or any building that forms part of or is
connected to such amusement ride, for the purpose of —

       (a) ascertaining whether there is, or has been, any
            contravention of this Act;

       (b) ascertaining whether any circumstances exist that would
            authorise the Commissioner or enforcement officer to take
            any action or execute any work under this Act;

       (c) taking any action or carrying out any work, authorised or
            required to be taken or carried out by this Act;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   80

(d) inspecting any record, book or other document kept and
     maintained, as required by this Act, in relation to the
     amusement ride or its installation, operation, modification
     or relocation; or

          (e) carrying out any investigation into any adverse incident
              that has occurred in respect of the amusement ride.

 (2) The owner of any premises mentioned in subsection (1) as well
as the person responsible for the amusement ride on those premises (if
that person is not the same person as the owner of those premises)
must, without cost —

(a) afford the Commissioner or an enforcement officer such
     facilities and assistance as the Commissioner or
     enforcement officer may reasonably require for the
     purposes of carrying out any inspection under
     subsection (1); and

(b) produce for the inspection of the Commissioner or
     enforcement officer, or provide the Commissioner or
     enforcement officer with copies of, any record, book or
     other document as the Commissioner or enforcement
     officer may require for the purposes of subsection (1).

 (3) If any person to whom subsection (2) applies contravenes that
subsection, that person shall be guilty of an offence.

Seizure and detention of documents, components of
amusement ride, etc.

 51.—(1) The Commissioner or an enforcement officer may, in the
course of carrying out any inspection under section 50 —

       (a) seize and detain any record, book or other document which
            the Commissioner or enforcement officer has reasonable
            cause to believe to be a record, book or document which —

               (i) may be required for the purposes of enforcing this
                   Act; or

              (ii) may contain evidence relating to the commission of
                   any offence under this Act; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

81  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    (b) dismantle and seize and detain —

    (i) any machinery, equipment or plant connected or used
        in connection with an amusement ride or with any
        installation works, modification works or relocation
        works; or

    (ii) any component of an amusement ride,

    (b) if the Commissioner or enforcement officer has reason to
         believe that that machinery, equipment, plant or
         component does not comply with the prescribed
         requirements or has been or could have been the cause
         of the occurrence of any adverse incident in respect of the
         amusement ride.

 (2) Where any item has been seized under subsection (1) or any
other provision of this Act —

    (a) the Commissioner or enforcement officer who seized the
         item must, as soon as practicable, give written notice of the
         seizure to the person from whom the item was seized,
         unless that person was present at the time of the seizure;

    (b) any person claiming the item seized may within 48 hours
         after the seizure complain of the seizure to a Magistrate,
         and the complaint may be heard and determined by the
         Magistrate who may —

    (i) confirm the seizure wholly or in part;

    (ii) disallow the seizure wholly or in part;

    (iii) order that the item seized be restored to its owner,
          subject to such condition as the Magistrate may think
          fit to impose to ensure that the item is preserved for
          any purpose for which it may subsequently be
          required; or

    (iv) order payment to be made to the owner of the item
         seized of an amount the Magistrate considers will
         compensate the owner for any loss or depreciation
         resulting from the seizure;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   82

          (c) in the absence of any claim under paragraph (b) or pending
              the determination of any such claim, the item may be kept
              or stored in such place or premises as the Commissioner
              may direct;

(d) the Commissioner or an enforcement officer may —

          (i) mark, seal or label the item in the manner that he or
              she thinks fit for the purpose of indicating that the
              item is under detention; and

          (ii) lock or seal the premises where the item is being
               detained; and

          (e) any person who, without the authority of the
              Commissioner or an enforcement officer —

          (i) interferes, removes or otherwise tampers with the
              item;

          (ii) alters, counterfeits, defaces, destroys, erases or
               removes any mark, seal or label placed by the
               Commissioner or enforcement officer on the item
               under paragraph (d)(i); or

          (iii) opens, breaks or otherwise tampers with the lock or
                seal placed by the Commissioner or enforcement
                officer at the entrance to, or any other part of, any
                premises under paragraph (d)(ii),

          (e) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
              conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
              imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

Powers of arrest

 52.—(1) A police officer may arrest without warrant any person
who has committed, or whom the police officer reasonably suspects
to have committed, an offence under this Act if —

       (a) the person declines to give his or her name and address
            when required to do so by the police officer;

       (b) the person gives to the police officer an address that is
            outside Singapore; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

83  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    (c) the police officer has reason to doubt the accuracy of the
        name or address given by that person.

 (2) A person arrested under subsection (1) may be detained until his
or her name and address are correctly ascertained, except that the
person so arrested must not be detained longer than is necessary for
bringing him or her before a court unless the order of a court for his or
her detention is obtained.

Power to require dismantling of amusement ride in dangerous
condition, etc.

 53.—(1) Where in the Commissioner’s opinion any amusement
ride has been or is being installed, operated, modified or relocated in
such a manner, or is in such a condition or state of disrepair, as to pose
an imminent danger to persons who are using or operating, or in the
vicinity of, the amusement ride, the Commissioner may do either or
both of the following:

       (a) direct the holder of the installation permit, operating permit
            or modification permit (as the case may be) in respect of
            the amusement ride or any other person responsible for the
            amusement ride to —

               (i) immediately cease any installation works,
                   modification works or relocation works being
                   carried out on the amusement ride or the operation
                   of the amusement ride, and close or cordon off the
                   amusement ride; and

              (ii) take such measures as the Commissioner may
                   specify to secure, stabilise or dismantle the
                   amusement ride within such time as the
                   Commissioner may stipulate;

       (b) engage a qualified person or a specialist to carry out such
            investigations and tests as may be necessary and to advise
            the Commissioner on all matters relating to the safety of
            the amusement ride or any installation works, modification
            works or relocation works which have been or are being
            carried out in respect of the amusement ride.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   84

 (2) If any person fails to comply with any direction given to the
person under subsection (1)(a) —

(a) the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
     on conviction —

          (i) to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment
              for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

          (ii) in respect of a continuing failure to comply, to an
               additional fine not exceeding $500 for each day or
               part of a day during which the failure to comply
               continues,

(a) and if the failure to comply continues after the conviction,
     the person shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be
     liable on conviction of this further offence to a further fine
     not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
     which the failure to comply continues after conviction; and

(b) the Commissioner may —

          (i) take or cause to be taken all such measures as may be
              necessary to secure, stabilise or dismantle, and to
              close or cordon off, the amusement ride in
              accordance with the direction given by the
              Commissioner under subsection (1)(a); and

          (ii) recover from the person in default by way of a civil
               suit all costs and expenses reasonably incurred by the
               Commissioner in the exercise of his or her powers
               under sub‑paragraph (i).

 (3) The Commissioner may give a direction under subsection (1)(a)
in writing or in such other form or manner as he or she thinks fit in the
circumstances of the case.

 (4) The Commissioner may order the person mentioned in
subsection (1)(a) to pay or reimburse the Commissioner all or a
specified part of the expenses that the Commissioner has incurred in
engaging a qualified person or a specialist under subsection (1)(b),
failing which the Commissioner may recover those expenses from
that person by way of a civil suit.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

85  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

Reporting of adverse incidents

 54.—(1) The person responsible for an amusement ride and the ride
manager of the amusement ride must, as soon as practicable, upon the
occurrence of any adverse incident in respect of the amusement ride,
inform the Commissioner of that occurrence.

 (2) Where the Commissioner receives any information under
subsection (1) or becomes aware of the occurrence of any adverse
incident in respect of an amusement ride through any other means, the
Commissioner may —

    (a) direct the person responsible for the amusement ride to
         immediately close or cordon off the amusement ride and
         take such measures as the Commissioner may specify to —

    (i) safely and expeditiously rescue and evacuate all
        patrons and other persons who are on the amusement
        ride;

    (ii) protect the safety of persons who are in the vicinity
         of the amusement ride; and

    (iii) otherwise address the adverse incident; and

    (b) by written notice require the person responsible for the
         amusement ride to investigate into the adverse incident and
         submit a report of the person’s findings and
         recommendations to the Commissioner within such time
         as the Commissioner may specify.

 (3) The Commissioner may also in any notice given under
subsection (2)(b) require the person responsible for the amusement
ride to submit to the Commissioner, in such form and manner and
within such time and for such period as the Commissioner may
specify, a report containing such information as the Commissioner
may require concerning —

    (a) the measures that the person responsible for the
         amusement ride has taken pursuant to the direction given
         to the person under subsection (2)(a);

    (b) the results of the measures so taken; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.              Act 2011                                       86

          (c) any other matter that the Commissioner thinks necessary or
              relevant in the circumstances.

 (4) The Commissioner may give a direction under subsection (2)(a)
in writing or in any other form or manner that he or she thinks fit in
the circumstances of the case.

(5) Any person who —

(a) contravenes subsection (1); or

(b) fails to comply with —

          (i) any direction given to the person under
              subsection (2)(a); or

          (ii) any notice given to the person under
               subsection (2)(b),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Obstructing Commissioner or enforcement officers in
execution of their duties

 55. Any person who obstructs, hinders or impedes —

       (a) the Commissioner;

       (b) any enforcement officer; or

       (c) any other person acting under the direction of the
            Authority, the Commissioner or an enforcement officer,

in the performance or execution of his or her duty or anything which
he or she is authorised, empowered or required to do under this Act
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
                 Amusement Rides Safety

87               Act 2011                                      2020 Ed.

                 PART 9

      PROVISIONS RELATING TO
    OFFENCES AND PROSECUTION

General penalty

 56. Any person who is guilty of an offence under this Act or the
regulations for which no penalty is expressly provided shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

Jurisdiction of court

 57. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment in
respect of the offence.

Evidence

 58.—(1) Subject to this section, the contents of any notice or
document prepared, issued or served under, by virtue of or for the
purposes of this Act are, until the contrary is proved, presumed to be
correct.

 (2) All records and other documents required by this Act to be kept
by the Commissioner are deemed to be public documents, and copies
thereof or extracts therefrom certified by the officer responsible for
the custody thereof to be true copies or extracts (as the case may be)
subscribed by that officer with his or her name and official title are
admissible in evidence as proof of the contents of the documents or
extracts.

 (3) Where any information in respect of any amusement ride is
provided by the Commissioner by electronic means, the production of
any document under the hand of the officer responsible for providing
such information purporting to be a hard copy transcript of all or any
such information is, in all courts and in all proceedings, sufficient
evidence of the information provided electronically and all courts in
all proceedings are to take judicial notice of the signature of that
officer.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.                   Act 2011                                  88

Presumptions and defences

59.—(1) In any proceedings instituted under this Act for —

(a) the commencement or carrying out of any installation
     works, modification works or relocation works; or

(b) the operation of any amusement ride,

on any premises in contravention of the provisions of this Act, the
owner of the premises at the time the installation works, modification
works, relocation works or the operation of the amusement ride was
commenced or carried out is presumed, until the contrary is proved, to
be the person commencing or carrying out the installation works,
modification works, relocation works or the operation of the
amusement ride, as the case may be.

 (2) Where anything is required under this Act to be done by the
person responsible for, or the ride manager of, an amusement ride,
and there is more than one person responsible for the amusement ride
or more than one such ride manager, it is a defence to any prosecution
for failing to do that thing for the accused to prove —

(a) that that thing was done by another person responsible for
     the amusement ride or by another ride manager of the
     amusement ride, as the case may be; or

(b) that any notice or order in respect of that thing required
     under this Act to be served on the person responsible for
     the amusement ride or on the ride manager of the
     amusement ride was served on another person
     responsible for that amusement ride or on another ride
     manager of that amusement ride (as the case may be) and
     not on the person charged.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 60.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer; or

       (b) to be attributable to any act or default on the officer’s part,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

89  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if he or she were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         a partner; or

    (b) to be attributable to any act or default on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by a limited
liability partnership is proved to have been committed with the
consent or connivance of, or to be attributable to any neglect on the
part of, a partner or manager of the limited liability partnership, the
partner or manager (as the case may be) as well as the partnership
shall be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly.

 (5) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
         its governing body; or

    (b) to be attributable to any act or default on the part of the
         officer or member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
                       Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.               Act 2011                                      90

(6) In this section —

“body corporate” and “partnership” exclude a limited liability
   partnership within the meaning of the Limited Liability
   Partnerships Act 2005;

“officer” —

          (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
               member of the committee of management, chief
               executive officer, manager, secretary or other similar
               officer of the body corporate and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity; and

          (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
               than a partnership), means the president, the
               secretary, or any member of the committee of the
               unincorporated association, or any person holding a
               position analogous to that of the president, secretary
               or member of such a committee and includes any
               person purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (7) The Minister may make regulations to provide for the
application of any provision of this section, with such
modifications as the Minister considers appropriate, to any body
corporate, limited liability partnership or unincorporated association
formed or recognised under the law of a territory outside Singapore.

Liability for offences by agents or employees

 61. Where an offence under this Act is committed by a
person (A) —

       (a) acting as an agent or employee; or

       (b) being otherwise subject to the supervision or instruction,

of another person (B) for the purposes of any employment in the
course of which the offence was committed, B, without prejudice to
the liability of A, shall be liable under this Act in the same manner and
to the same extent as if B had personally committed the offence if it is
proved that the act which constituted the offence was committed with

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

91  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

B’s consent or connivance or that it was attributable to any neglect on
B’s part.

Composition of offences

 62.—(1) The Commissioner may compound any offence under this
Act or the regulations which is prescribed as a compoundable offence
by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the
following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

Forfeiture

 63.—(1) The court before which any person is tried for an offence
under this Act may make an order for the forfeiture of any item which
has been seized under the provisions of this Act if the court is satisfied
that —

       (a) an offence under this Act has been committed; and

       (b) the item seized was the subject matter, or was used in the
            commission, of the offence.

 (2) Where no party raises the question of forfeiture under
subsection (1), the court may consider the question on its own
motion and make any order that it thinks appropriate.

 (3) The court may make an order under subsection (1) for the
forfeiture of any item which has been seized under the provisions of
this Act even though no person has been convicted of an offence.

 (4) If the court, having regard to the circumstances of the case, does
not think it fit to order the forfeiture of any item which has been

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   92

seized under the provisions of this Act, the court must order that the
item be released to the owner of, or the person entitled to, the item.

(5) If —

(a) no prosecution is instituted with regard to any item which
     has been seized under the provisions of this Act; and

(b) no claim is made for the item under section 51(2)(b),

the item to which the notice relates is deemed to be forfeited.

 (6) Where the owner of any item seized under the provisions of this
Act consents to its disposal, the item is deemed to be forfeited.

 (7) Any item forfeited or deemed to be forfeited under this section
must be delivered to the Commissioner and must be disposed of in the
manner that the Commissioner thinks fit.

 (8) The costs of the disposal of any item under subsection (7) must
be borne by the owner of, or person entitled to, the item.

                                   PART 10

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Issue of permits not to be taken as evidence of title to or interest
in land

 64. The issue of an installation permit, an operating permit or a
modification permit to any person —

       (a) does not confer on the person; and

       (b) is not to be taken as evidence that the person has,

any title or right to, or any interest in, the land on which the
amusement ride to which the permit relates has been or is being
installed.

Service of documents, etc.

 65.—(1) Any notice, order or other document (hereafter referred to
collectively) required or authorised to be given or served under this
Act may be served —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

93  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

    (a) in the case of an individual —

    (i) by delivering it to the individual personally;

    (ii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently resident
         at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post to, the
         usual or last known address of the individual’s place
         of residence;

    (iii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently
          employed at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
          post to, the usual or last known address of the
          individual’s place of business;

    (iv) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous
         place at the usual or last known address of residence
         or business of the individual; or

    (v) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
         usual or last known address of the individual’s place
         of residence or business, or the last fax number given
         to the Commissioner or an enforcement officer by
         the individual as the fax number for the service of
         documents on the individual;

    (b) in the case of a partnership other than a limited liability
         partnership —

    (i) by delivering it to any partner or the secretary or
        other like officer of the partnership;

    (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
         post to, the partnership’s principal or last known
         place of business in Singapore; or

    (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
          partnership’s principal or last known place of
          business in Singapore; and

    (c) in the case of any limited liability partnership or any other
        body corporate —

    (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other like officer
        of the body corporate or, in the case of a limited

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   94

          liability partnership, the manager of the limited
          liability partnership;

          (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
               post to, the registered office or principal office of the
               limited liability partnership or body corporate in
               Singapore; or

          (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
                registered office or principal office of the limited
                liability partnership or body corporate in Singapore.

 (2) Any document that is to be served by the Commissioner, an
enforcement officer or the Minister —

(a) if sent by fax to the fax number operated at the last known
     place of residence or business or registered office or
     principal office in accordance with subsection (1) — is
     deemed to have been duly served on the person to whom it
     is addressed on the day of transmission, subject to receipt
     on the sending fax machine of a notification (by electronic
     or other means) of a successful transmission to the place of
     residence or business or registered office or principal
     office, as the case may be;

(b) if sent by electronic communication to an email address in
     accordance with subsection (1) — is deemed to have been
     duly served on the person to whom it is addressed at the
     time of entering the information system addressed to the
     email address; and

          (c) if sent by prepaid registered post — is deemed to have been
              duly served on the person to whom it is addressed 2 days
              after the day the document was posted, whether or not it is
              returned undelivered.

 (3) Any document required or authorised to be served under this
Act on —

(a) any person responsible for an amusement ride; or

(b) any person carrying out any installation works,
     modification works or relocation works,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

95  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

is also deemed to be sufficiently served —

    (c) by delivering a copy of the document personally to any
        adult person on the premises on which the amusement ride
        has been installed or on which the installation works,
        modification works or relocation works (as the case may
        be) are being carried out; or

    (d) if there is no such person to whom the document can with
         reasonable diligence be delivered, by affixing the
         document to a conspicuous part of the premises or
         amusement ride.

 (4) Any document required or authorised by this Act to be served on
any person responsible for an amusement ride is deemed to be
properly addressed if addressed by the description of the “person
responsible” for the amusement ride without further name or
description.

 (5) Any document to be issued by the Commissioner under this Act
may be issued in such form or manner as the Commissioner may
determine and every such document is valid if the signature of the
Commissioner or any enforcement officer duly authorised by the
Commissioner under this Act is duly printed or written on the
document.

 (6) Any document sent by registered post to any person in
accordance with subsection (1) is deemed to be duly served on the
person at the time when the document would in the ordinary course of
post be delivered and, in proving service of the document, it is
sufficient to prove that the envelope containing the document was
properly addressed, stamped and posted by registered post.

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

Form and authentication of documents

 66.—(1) All notices, orders and other documents which the
Commissioner or an enforcement officer is empowered to give by
this Act may be in such form or manner as the Commissioner may
determine, and may be given by any enforcement officer.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   96

 (2) Where any such notice, order or document requires
authentication —

(a) the signature of the Commissioner or an enforcement
     officer; or

(b) an official facsimile of such signature,

appended thereto is sufficient authentication.

Inaccuracies in documents

 67.—(1) Any misnomer or inaccurate description of any person,
premises, amusement ride or any other thing named or described in
any notice, order or document prepared, issued or served under or for
the purposes of this Act does not in any way affect the operation of
this Act as respects that person, premises, amusement ride or thing if
that person, premises, amusement ride or thing is so designated or
described in the notice, order or document as to be identifiable.

 (2) Proceedings taken under or by virtue of this Act are not invalid
for want of form.

Protection from liability

 68.—(1) No liability shall lie against the Commissioner, any
enforcement officer or any employee of the Authority by reason of
the fact that any installation works, modification works or relocation
works are or are to be carried out in accordance with the provisions of
this Act, or that any amusement ride or the design and specifications,
proposed installation method and programme or proposed
modification method and programme or any installation works,
modification works or relocation works relating to such amusement
ride are subject to inspection, alteration or approval by the
Commissioner, enforcement officer or employee of the Authority.

 (2) Nothing in this Act makes it obligatory for the Commissioner,
an enforcement officer or an employee of the Authority to inspect any
amusement ride or any installation works, modification works or
relocation works relating thereto, or the premises on which an
amusement ride has been or is being installed, modified, relocated or
operated, to ascertain whether the provisions of this Act are complied
with or whether any design and specifications, proposed installation

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

97  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

method and programme, proposed modification method and
programme, certificate, notice or other document submitted to the
Commissioner, enforcement officer or employee of the Authority
concerning the amusement ride are accurate or otherwise in
compliance with the provisions of this Act.

 (3) No matter or thing done by the Commissioner, an enforcement
officer or an employee of the Authority shall, if it were done in good
faith for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act, subject
the Commissioner, enforcement officer or employee of the Authority
personally to any action, liability, claim or demand.

 (4) Where the Commissioner provides any information to any
person in respect of any amusement ride or any works or matter in
relation to an amusement ride by electronic or other means, neither
the Commissioner nor any enforcement officer or employee of the
Authority shall be liable for any loss or damage suffered by any
person by reason of any error or omission of whatever nature or
howsoever caused, including any defect or breakdown in the
electronic equipment used for providing the information, if the
error or omission had been made in good faith and in the ordinary
course of duties of the Commissioner, enforcement officer or
employee of the Authority.

Appeals to Minister

 69.—(1) Any person who is aggrieved by a decision of the
Commissioner to —

       (a) refuse to issue any installation permit, operating permit,
            modification permit, direction for the alteration of the
            conditions of any such permit or consent sought by the
            person under this Act;

       (b) alter, on the Commissioner’s own volition, any of the
            conditions of any installation permit, operating permit or
            modification permit;

       (c) revoke or suspend any installation permit, operating permit
            or modification permit;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   98

(d) give any notice or direction —

          (i) requiring the cessation of any installation works,
              modification works, relocation works or the
              operation of an amusement ride;

          (ii) requiring the closure or cordoning off of an
               amusement ride;

          (iii) requiring the taking of any measures in relation to
                any amusement ride; or

          (iv) otherwise affecting the carrying out of any
               installation works, modification works, relocation
               works or the operation of an amusement ride,

may appeal to the Minister in such form and manner, and within such
time, as may be prescribed.

 (2) Where an appeal is brought under this section from a decision of
the Commissioner, the Minister may, after giving the appellant an
opportunity to make written representations, dismiss or allow the
appeal, unconditionally or subject to any conditions that the Minister
thinks fit.

(3) The Minister’s decision on any appeal under this section is final.

(4) Despite any appeal to the Minister under this section —

(a) the revocation or suspension by the Commissioner of any
     installation permit, operating permit or modification
     permit; and

(b) any notice or direction given by the Commissioner
     mentioned in subsection (1)(d),

take effect from the date specified by the Commissioner for the
revocation or suspension or in the notice or direction given (as the
case may be), unless the Minister otherwise directs.

Exemption

 70.—(1) The Minister may by order in the Gazette, either generally
or in any particular case, and subject to such conditions as the
Minister may impose, exempt any person, amusement ride,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    Amusement Rides Safety

99  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

installation works, modification works or relocation works from all or
any of the provisions of this Act.

 (2) The Minister may at any time by order in the Gazette revoke an
exemption granted under this section.

Fees

 71.—(1) Except as provided in subsection (2), all fees payable
under this Act must be credited into the funds of the Authority.

 (2) Any fee payable to the Commissioner of Civil Defence under
Part 6 must be credited into the Consolidated Fund.

Regulations

 72.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for carrying out the
purposes of this Act and for any matter which is required under this
Act to be prescribed.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may make
regulations for or in respect of all or any of the following matters:

       (a) the making of any application for, and the issue of, any
            permit, consent, permission or approval under this Act;

       (b) the regulation of the design, specifications, manufacture,
            installation, operation, modification, relocation,
            maintenance and repair of amusement rides, including
            the following:

               (i) the properties and design strength of the materials to
                   be used in the construction of an amusement ride;

              (ii) the speed at which an amusement ride may be
                   operated;

             (iii) the equipment, drives, brakes, anchorages,
                   tensioning devices and safety devices to be
                   incorporated as part of the amusement ride;

             (iv) the signalling and communication systems to be
                   applied in the installation, operation, modification or
                   relocation of an amusement ride;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   100

          (v) the testing of an amusement ride, whether after its
               installation, modification, relocation or repair, or
               routinely as part of its maintenance;

          (vi) the codes, standards and specifications relating to the
               safety and other aspects of the installation, operation,
               modification or relocation (as the case may be) of an
               amusement ride; and

          (vii) the illumination or marking of an amusement ride;

          (c) the maximum number of persons that may be carried on
              board an amusement ride at any one time (whether as
              patrons or otherwise) and the classes of persons or goods
              who or which may not be carried on board an amusement
              ride at any time;

(d) the conduct and safety of persons using or operating, or in
     the vicinity of, amusement rides;

          (e) the procedure for the inspection of amusement rides by the
              Commissioner or any enforcement officer;

          (f) the requirements that a person must satisfy before he or she
              may be appointed as a ride manager;

(g) the making of reports to the Commissioner concerning any
     adverse incident that has occurred in respect of an
     amusement ride and the conduct of investigations into
     that adverse incident;

(h) the types of amusement rides that are to be considered as
     major amusement rides for the purposes of this Act and the
     types of amusement rides to which this Act will not apply;

          (i) the types of modifications to an amusement ride that
              amount to major modifications for the purposes of this Act;

          (j) the requirements in respect of insurance coverage for the
              operation of amusement rides;

          (k) the records, books or other documents to be kept and the
              reports and certificates to be made and issued in respect of
              an amusement ride for the purposes of this Act;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
     Amusement Rides Safety

101  Act 2011                                                   2020 Ed.

     (l) the duties and responsibilities of —

     (i) the holder of an installation permit, an operating
         permit or a modification permit and any other person
         responsible for an amusement ride;

     (ii) a qualified person appointed to carry out any
          function in respect of an amusement ride for the
          purposes of this Act; and

     (iii) the ride manager of an amusement ride;

     (m) the manner in which appeals may be made to and
          determined by the Minister under this Act and the
          documents, information and other particulars to be
          provided to the Minister by the appellant and the
          Commissioner in connection with such appeals;

     (n) the prescribing of the forms for use for the purposes of this
          Act;

     (o) the prescribing of the fees and charges payable for the
          purposes of this Act;

     (p) the prescribing of the offences that may be compounded
          under section 62;

       (q) such other matters as may be necessary or expedient to be
            prescribed or provided for to facilitate the effective
            administration and enforcement of this Act.

                                                                                                             [4/2014]

 (3) The Minister may, in making any regulations under this section,
provide that any contravention of any of the provisions of those
regulations shall be an offence punishable with a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or with imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or
with both.

Adoption of codes, standards and specifications

 73.—(1) Any regulations made under section 72 may adopt wholly
or partially or as amended by the regulations or by reference any
code, standard or specification which relates to the design,
manufacture, installation, operation, modification, relocation,

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
          Amusement Rides Safety

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                   102

maintenance or repair of amusement rides or to any other matter that
is relevant to the purposes of this Act, and which —

(a) is recommended, issued or adopted by any standards
     organisation or body (whether within or outside Singapore)
     approved by the Commissioner; or

(b) is considered by the Commissioner to be appropriate for
     adoption for the purposes of this Act.

 (2) In any proceedings under this Act, a copy of any code, standard
or specification adopted under subsection (1) which is certified by the
Commissioner as a true copy thereof is prima facie evidence of that
code, standard or specification.

Presentation of regulations to Parliament

 74. Any regulations made under this Act must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
                   LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

               AMUSEMENT RIDES SAFETY
                             ACT 2011

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 6 of 2011 — Amusement Rides Safety Act 2011

Bill           : 1/2011

First Reading  : 10 January 2011

Second and Third Readings : 14 February 2011

Commencement   : 1 July 2011

2. 2012 Revised Edition — Amusement Rides Safety Act (Chapter 6A)

Operation      : 30 September 2012

3. Act 4 of 2014 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2014
   (Amendments made by section 2 of the above Act)

Bill           : 25/2013

First Reading  : 11 November 2013

Second and Third Readings : 21 January 2014

Commencement   : 10 March 2014 (section 2)

4. Act 28 of 2017 — Public Entertainments and Meetings (Amendment) Act
                          2017

   (Amendments made by section 24(2) of the above Act)

Bill           : 22/2017

First Reading  : 3 April 2017

Second and Third Readings : 8 May 2017

Commencement   : 1 August 2017 (section 24(2))

5. 2020 Revised Edition — Amusement Rides Safety
                                    Act 2011

Operation      : 31 December 2021

6. Act 23 of 2023 — Building and Related Works (Miscellaneous
                           Amendments) Act 2023

   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 19/2023

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
First Reading                ii
Second and Third Readings  : 9 May 2023
Commencement               : 4 July 2023
                           : 18 December 2023

.                        Abbreviations

G.N.          (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.      Gazette Notification
L.A.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.          Legislative Assembly
M.            Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
              Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.         Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S             Malaysia)
S.I.          Parliament
S (N.S.)      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.      Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)  Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
    COMPARATIVE TABLE

AMUSEMENT RIDES SAFETY
              ACT 2011

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2012 Ed.
[Omitted as spent]         75
[Omitted as spent]         76

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
