THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
           INLAND REVENUE AUTHORITY OF
                     SINGAPORE ACT 1992

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
                                                           2020 Ed.

Inland Revenue Authority of
     Singapore Act 1992

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

   ESTABLISHMENT, INCORPORATION AND CONSTITUTION
                                OF AUTHORITY

3. Establishment and incorporation of Inland Revenue Authority of
       Singapore

4. Common seal
5. Constitution of Authority

                                       PART 3

             FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF AUTHORITY

6. Functions of Authority
7. Powers of Authority
7A. Directions by Minister
8. Appointment of committees and delegation of powers

                                        PART 4

                     PROVISIONS RELATING TO STAFF

 9. Chief executive officer, officers and employees, etc.
10. Protection from personal liability
11. [Repealed]

                                          1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
          Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1992                                             2

          PART 5

          FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Section   Funds of Authority
          Power to borrow
   12.    Issue of shares, etc.
   13.    Grants
   13A.   Bank accounts and application of revenue
   14.    Power of investment
   15.    Financial year
   16.
   17.

          PART 5A

          SCHEDULED PUBLIC SCHEMES

          Division 1 — Recovery of wrongly given grants

17A.      Application of this Division
17B.      Recovery of wrongly given grants
17C.      Notices for payment of claim amounts
17D.      Interest for failure to pay claim amount
17E.      Remission or refund of claim amount and interest

          Division 2 — Offences

17F. Penalty for giving false or misleading information for obtaining
         grant, etc., under Scheduled public schemes

          Division 3 — Powers of enforcement

17G.      Authority may require documents and information
17H.      Power to obtain information
17I.      Arrest of persons
17J.      No unnecessary restraint
17K.      Arresting officer to be armed
17L.      Search of place entered by person sought to be arrested
17M.      Arrested person may be examined orally
17N.      Disposal of item given or seized

                                        PART 6

       TRANSFER OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND EMPLOYEES

18. Transfer to Authority of property, assets and liabilities of Inland
         Revenue Department

19. Transfer of employees

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
         Inland Revenue Authority of

3        Singapore Act 1992                                        2020 Ed.

Section  Pension rights, etc., of Government employees to be preserved
         No benefits in respect of abolition or reorganisation of office
   20.   Existing contracts
   21.   Continuation and completion of disciplinary proceedings
   22.   Misconduct or neglect of duty by employee before transfer
   23.
   24.

                                           PART 7

                                         GENERAL

   25. No proceedings against Authority as agent of Government
   26. Proceedings conducted by officers of Authority
   27. Preservation of secrecy
   27A. Protection of informers
   28. Authority’s symbol
   28A. Composition of offences
   28B. Service of documents, etc.
   29. Electronic service
   30. Power of Minister to amend Second, Third and Fourth Schedules
   31. Regulations

            First Schedule — Constitution and proceedings of Authority
            Second Schedule — Scheduled public schemes
            Third Schedule — Specified acts
            Fourth Schedule — Specified offices

An Act to establish and incorporate the Inland Revenue Authority of
  Singapore, to provide for its functions and powers, and for matters
  connected therewith.

                                                          [1 September 1992]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore Act 1992.

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
                Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.        Singapore Act 1992                                  4

Interpretation

2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

“authorised investigating officer” means an officer or employee
   authorised under section 9(4) to investigate offences under
   Part 5A;

                                                                       [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

“Authority” means the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore
   established under section 3;

“Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Authority and
   includes any temporary Chairperson of the Authority;

“chief executive officer” means the chief executive officer of the
   Authority and includes any person acting in that capacity;

“Deputy Chairperson” means the Deputy Chairperson of the
   Authority and includes any temporary Deputy Chairperson of
   the Authority;

“electronic service” means the system established under
   section 29;

                                                                       [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

“member” means a member of the Authority;

                                                                       [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

“Scheduled public scheme” means a scheme, introduced by the
   Government or a statutory body pursuant to which any
   money, credit, rebate or other grant is to be given, and that is
   specified in the Second Schedule;

                                                                       [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

“specially authorised officer” means an authorised investigating
   officer further authorised under section 9(5) to exercise the
   powers mentioned in that provision.

                                    [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
   Inland Revenue Authority of

5  Singapore Act 1992                                        2020 Ed.

   PART 2

ESTABLISHMENT, INCORPORATION AND CONSTITUTION
                             OF AUTHORITY

Establishment and incorporation of Inland Revenue Authority
of Singapore

 3. A body called the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore is
established, which is a body corporate with perpetual succession and
a common seal and is by that name capable of —

   (a) suing and being sued;

   (b) acquiring, owning, holding and developing or disposing of
        property, both movable and immovable; and

   (c) doing and suffering any other acts or things that bodies
       corporate may lawfully do and suffer.

Common seal

 4.—(1) All deeds and other documents requiring the seal of the
Authority must be —

       (a) sealed with the common seal of the Authority; and

       (b) signed by any 2 members generally or specially authorised
            by the Authority for the purpose or by one member and the
            chief executive officer.

 (2) All courts, judges and persons acting judicially are to take
judicial notice of the common seal of the Authority affixed to any
document and presume that it was duly affixed.

Constitution of Authority

 5.—(1) The Authority consists of —

       (a) a Chairperson; and

       (b) not less than 5 and not more than 10 other members as the
            Minister may determine.

 (2) The First Schedule has effect with respect to the Authority, its
members and proceedings.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
          Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.                Singapore Act 1992                          6

                        PART 3

          FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF AUTHORITY

Functions of Authority

6.—(1) The functions of the Authority are —

(a) to act as agent of the Government and provide service in
     administering, assessing, collecting and enforcing
     payment of income tax, property tax, estate duty, stamp
     duties, gambling duties and such other taxes as agreed
     between the Government and the Authority;

                                                                      [Act 1 of 2022 wef 29/07/2022]

(b) to advise the Government on matters relating to taxation
     and to liaise with the appropriate Ministries and statutory
     bodies on such matters;

          (c) to represent Singapore internationally in respect of matters
              relating to taxation;

(d) to provide service in respect of the granting of licences or
     permits by the Comptroller of Property Tax or the
     Commissioner of Estate Duties under any written law;

 (e) to provide service and advice to the Government and
      statutory bodies in respect of matters relating to the
      valuation of immovable properties;

                                                                       [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

(ea) to administer a Scheduled public scheme for and on behalf
      of the Government or a statutory body; and

                                                                       [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

  (f) to perform such other functions as are conferred on the
      Authority by any other written law.

 (2) In addition to the functions imposed by this section, the
Authority may undertake such other functions as the Minister may
assign to the Authority and in so doing —

(a) the Authority is deemed to be fulfilling the purposes of this
     Act; and

(b) the provisions of this Act apply to the Authority in respect
     of such functions.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
   Inland Revenue Authority of

7                    Singapore Act 1992                      2020 Ed.

Powers of Authority

 7.—(1) The Authority has power to do all things necessary or
convenient to be done for or in connection with the performance of its
functions.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the powers of the Authority
include power —

   (a) to enter into contracts;

   (b) to form or participate in the formation of a company;

   (c) to utilise all property of the Authority, movable and
       immovable, in such manner as the Authority may think
       expedient, including the raising of loans by mortgaging
       such property;

   (d) to engage in any activity, either alone or in conjunction
        with other organisations or international agencies, to
        promote better understanding of taxation;

   (e) to provide technical advice or assistance, including
       training facilities, to tax authorities of other countries;

   (f) to make charges for services rendered by the Authority;

   (g) to grant loans to employees of the Authority for any
        purpose specifically approved by the Authority;

   (h) to provide recreational facilities and promote recreational
        activities for, and activities conducive to, the welfare of
        employees of the Authority;

   (i) to provide training for employees of the Authority and to
       award scholarships or otherwise pay for such training; and

   (j) to do anything incidental to any of its powers.

Directions by Minister

 7A. The Minister may give to the Authority any direction under
section 5 of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
          Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1992                                        8

Appointment of committees and delegation of powers

 8.—(1) The Authority may appoint from among its own members
or other persons who are not members of the Authority any number of
committees that it thinks fit consisting of members or other persons or
members and other persons for purposes which, in the opinion of the
Authority, would be better regulated and managed by means of those
committees.

 (2) The Authority may, subject to any conditions or restrictions that
it thinks fit, delegate to any such committee or to any member, officer
or employee of the Authority, any of the functions or powers of the
Authority under this Act.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

                                    PART 4

                 PROVISIONS RELATING TO STAFF

Chief executive officer, officers and employees, etc.

 9.—(1) There must be a chief executive officer of the Authority,
whose appointment, removal, discipline and promotion must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Authority may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint an individual to act temporarily as the chief
executive officer during any period, or during all periods, when the
chief executive officer —

       (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (3) The Authority may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint and employ, on such terms and conditions as it may
determine, such other officers, employees, consultants and agents as
may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
   Inland Revenue Authority of

9  Singapore Act 1992                                        2020 Ed.

 (4) The Authority may, by notification, authorise any officer or
employee mentioned in subsection (3) to perform or assist in the
performance of any duty imposed on the Authority under this Act.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

 (5) The Authority may further authorise an authorised investigating
officer to exercise any power in section 17H(2), (3), (4) or (5), 17I,
17J, 17K or 17L.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

Protection from personal liability

 10. No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie personally against
any member, officer or employee of the Authority or other person
acting under the direction of the Authority for anything which is in
good faith done or intended to be done in the execution or purported
execution of this Act.

 11. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

                                    PART 5

                        FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Funds of Authority

 12. The funds of the Authority consist of —

       (a) all moneys received by the Authority for services rendered
            by the Authority to the Government as its agent or for
            services rendered by the Authority to any person;

       (b) all moneys received by the Authority by way of grants;

       (c) all moneys derived from the disposal, lease or hire of, or
            any other dealing with, any property vested in or acquired
            by the Authority;

       (d) all moneys derived as income from investment by the
            Authority;

       (e) all moneys borrowed by the Authority under this Act; and

        (f) all other moneys lawfully received by the Authority for the
            purposes of the Authority.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
                 Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.         Singapore Act 1992                                 10

Power to borrow

 13.—(1) For the discharge of its functions or duties under this Act
or any other written law, the Authority may raise loans from the
Government or, with the approval of the Minister, raise loans within
or outside Singapore from such source as the Minister may direct
by —

(a) mortgage, overdraft or other means, with or without
     security;

(b) charge, whether legal or equitable, on any property vested
     in the Authority or on any other revenue receivable by the
     Authority under this Act or any other written law; or

          (c) the creation and issue of debentures, bonds or any other
              instrument as the Minister may approve.

 (2) For the purposes of this section, the power to raise loans
includes the power to make any financial agreement whereby credit
facilities are granted to the Authority for the purchase of goods or
services.

Issue of shares, etc.

 13A. As a consequence of —

       (a) the vesting of any property, rights or liabilities of the
            Government in the Authority under this Act; or

       (b) any capital injection or other investment by the
            Government in the Authority in accordance with any
            written law,

the Authority must issue such shares or other securities to the
Minister for Finance as that Minister may direct.

Grants

 14. For the purpose of enabling the Authority to carry out its
functions under this Act, the Minister may make grants‑in‑aid to the
Authority of such sums of moneys as the Minister may determine out
of moneys to be provided by Parliament.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
    Inland Revenue Authority of

11  Singapore Act 1992                                        2020 Ed.

Bank accounts and application of revenue

 15.—(1) The Authority must open and maintain an account or
accounts with such bank or banks as the Authority thinks fit; and
every such account must be operated as far as practicable by cheque
signed by such person or persons authorised to do so by the Authority.

 (2) The moneys of the Authority must be applied only in payment
or discharge of the expenses, obligations and liabilities of the
Authority and in making any payments that the Authority is
authorised or required to make.

Power of investment

 16. The Authority may invest its funds in accordance with the
standard investment power of statutory bodies as defined in
section 33A of the Interpretation Act 1965.

Financial year

 17. The financial year of the Authority begins on 1 April of each
year and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

                                   PART 5A

                   SCHEDULED PUBLIC SCHEMES

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

            Division 1 — Recovery of wrongly given grants

Application of this Division

 17A. This Division applies when a person (called in this Division
the recipient) has been given any amount of money, credit, rebate or
other grant under a Scheduled public scheme (called in this Division
the wrongly given grant), whether before, on or after the date of
commencement of section 5 of the Inland Revenue Authority of
Singapore (Amendment) Act 2024, to which the recipient is not
entitled under the terms of the Scheduled public scheme.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
          Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1992                                        12

Recovery of wrongly given grants

 17B. The Authority may recover from the recipient an amount
equal in value to the wrongly given grant (called in this Division the
claim amount) as a debt due to the Government.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

Notices for payment of claim amounts

 17C. The Authority may at any time give written notice to the
recipient to pay the claim amount to the Authority, in the manner
specified in the notice and within 30 days after the date of service of
the notice or any later time that the Authority may allow in a
particular case (called in this Division the payment period).

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

Interest for failure to pay claim amount

 17D. If any part of the claim amount is not paid by the recipient
within the payment period, the recipient must pay to the Authority, in
addition to the amount not paid, interest at the prescribed rate on the
outstanding claim amount calculated on a daily basis from the end of
the payment period to the date the claim amount is paid to the
Authority in full (called in this Division the interest).

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

Remission or refund of claim amount and interest

 17E. The Authority may remit or refund the whole or any part of the
claim amount or interest.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

                           Division 2 — Offences

Penalty for giving false or misleading information for
obtaining grant, etc., under Scheduled public schemes

 17F.—(1) A person commits an offence if, for the purposes of
obtaining, or assisting another person to obtain, any money, credit,
rebate or other grant under a Scheduled public scheme, the person —

       (a) gives to a public agency any information that is false or
            misleading in any material particular; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
    Inland Revenue Authority of

13  Singapore Act 1992                                        2020 Ed.

    (b) omits from any application, form or other document given
         to a public agency any material particular.

 (2) Any person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)
shall on conviction pay a penalty equal to the amount of the money,
credit, rebate or other grant —

    (a) that is given to the person or the other person (as the case
         may be) (each called X) under the Scheduled public
         scheme as a result of the offence, and to which X is not
         entitled; or

    (b) that would have been given to X under the Scheduled
         public scheme had the offence not been detected, and to
         which X is not entitled.

 (3) A person commits an offence if, for the purposes of obtaining,
or assisting another person to obtain, any money, credit, rebate or
other grant under a Scheduled public scheme, the person, without
reasonable excuse or through negligence —

    (a) gives to a public agency any information that is false or
         misleading in any material particular; or

    (b) omits from any application, form or other document given
         to a public agency any material particular.

 (4) Any person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (3)
shall on conviction —

    (a) pay a penalty equal to double the amount of the money,
         credit, rebate or other grant —

    (i) that is given to the person or the other person (as the
        case may be) (each called X) under the Scheduled
        public scheme as a result of the offence, and to which
        X is not entitled; or

    (ii) that would have been given to X under the Scheduled
         public scheme had the offence not been detected, and
         to which X is not entitled; and

    (b) be liable to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment
         for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
          Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1992                                        14

 (5) A person commits an offence if the person, wilfully with intent
to obtain, or to assist another person to obtain, any money, credit,
rebate or other grant under a Scheduled public scheme —

(a) gives to a public agency any information that is false or
     misleading in any material particular; or

(b) omits from any application, form or other document given
     to a public agency any material particular.

 (6) Any person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (5)
shall on conviction —

(a) pay a penalty equal to 3 times the amount of the money,
     credit, rebate or other grant —

          (i) that is given to the person or the other person (as the
              case may be) (each called X) under the Scheduled
              public scheme as a result of the offence, and to which
              X is not entitled; or

          (ii) that would have been given to X under the Scheduled
               public scheme had the offence not been detected, and
               to which X is not entitled; and

(b) be liable to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
     imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

(7) In this section, “public agency” means —

(a) an Organ of State or a ministry or department of the
     Government;

(b) a public officer;

          (c) a public authority established by or under any public Act
              for a public purpose (other than a Town Council); or

(d) a member, an officer or an employee, or any department, of
     such a public authority.

                                                                     [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
    Inland Revenue Authority of

15  Singapore Act 1992                                        2020 Ed.

    Division 3 — Powers of enforcement

Authority may require documents and information

 17G.—(1) The Authority may, for the purposes of administering
any Scheduled public scheme, give written notice to any person to
give to the Authority, within a reasonable time specified in the notice,
any documents or information as to any person’s entitlement to be
given any money, credit, rebate or other grant under the Scheduled
public scheme.

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

    (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
         term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

    (b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
         exceeding $100 for every day or part of a day during which
         the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                         [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

Power to obtain information

 17H.—(1) Whenever the chief executive officer or an authorised
investigating officer has reasonable cause to suspect that a person
(called in this section the relevant person) is committing or has
committed an arrestable offence under this Part, the chief executive
officer or authorised investigating officer —

       (a) has at all times full and free access to all buildings and
            places at which the relevant person is suspected of
            committing or having committed the arrestable offence;

       (b) has at all times full and free access to the documents,
            computers, computer programs and computer software
            (whether installed in a computer or otherwise) that are
            suspected of being used or having been used in connection
            with, or containing or having contained evidence relating
            to, the arrestable offence;

       (c) has access to any information, code or technology which
            has the capability of retransforming or unscrambling

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
          Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.           Singapore Act 1992                               16

          encrypted data contained in or available to such computers
          into readable and comprehensive format or text;

(d) is entitled —

          (i) to inspect, copy or make extracts from any such
              document, computer, computer program, computer
              software or computer output without fee or reward;
              and

          (ii) at any reasonable time to inspect and check the
               operation of any computer, device, apparatus or
               material that is suspected of being used or having
               been used in connection with the arrestable offence;

          (e) may take possession of any such document, computer,
              device, apparatus, material, computer program or
              computer software if in his or her opinion —

          (i) the inspection, checking, copying or extraction
              cannot reasonably be performed without taking
              possession;

          (ii) any such items may be interfered with or destroyed
               unless possession is taken; or

          (iii) any such items may be required as evidence in
                proceedings for an offence under this Part;

          (f) is entitled to require —

          (i) the person by whom or on whose behalf the
              computer is or has been used, or any person having
              charge of, or otherwise concerned with the operation
              of the computer, device, apparatus or material to
              provide the chief executive officer or authorised
              investigating officer with any reasonable assistance
              that the chief executive officer or authorised
              investigating officer may require for the
              investigation of the arrestable offence; and

          (ii) any person in possession of decryption information
               to grant the chief executive officer or authorised
               investigating officer access to any decryption

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
    Inland Revenue Authority of

17  Singapore Act 1992                                        2020 Ed.

    information necessary to decrypt data required for
    the investigation of the arrestable offence; and

    (g) is entitled to require a person in or at the building or place,
         and who appears to the chief executive officer or
         authorised investigating officer to be acquainted with
         any facts or circumstances that are relevant to the
         investigation of the arrestable offence, to do one or both
         of the following:

    (i) answer any question to the best of the person’s
        knowledge, information and belief;

    (ii) take reasonable steps to produce a document for
         inspection.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the chief executive officer or a
specially authorised officer may, for the purpose of investigating an
arrestable offence under this Part, break open any outer or inner door
or window, or use any other reasonable means, to gain entry to a
building or place.

 (3) The chief executive officer or specially authorised officer may
only exercise the power under subsection (2) if —

    (a) he or she has reason to believe that there is in that building
         or place any document or thing that may be, or that
         contains information that may be —

    (i) relevant to the investigation of the arrestable offence;
        or

    (ii) required as evidence in proceedings for the arrestable
         offence being investigated;

    (b) he or she has reason to believe that the document or thing is
         likely to be concealed, removed or destroyed, or the
         information is likely to be deleted, by any person; and

    (c) he or she is unable to gain entry to that building or place
        after stating his or her authority and purpose and
        demanding such entry.

 (4) To avoid doubt, the chief executive officer or a specially
authorised officer who has gained entry to a building or place by

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
          Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1992                                        18

exercising his or her power under subsection (2) for the purpose of
investigating an arrestable offence under this Part may exercise any
of his or her powers under subsection (1) after such entry for the
purpose of that investigation.

 (5) The chief executive officer or a specially authorised officer
may, after gaining entry to a building or place under subsection (1) or
(2) for the purpose of investigating an arrestable offence under this
Part, search or cause to be searched a person found in the building or
place for any document or thing which may be relevant to the
investigation of the arrestable offence, or is required as evidence in
proceedings for that arrestable offence.

(6) A woman must not be searched except by a woman.

 (7) A person is not obliged under this section to disclose (including
through the production of a document) —

(a) any information that the person is under any statutory
     obligation (other than sections 128, 128A, 129 and 131 of
     the Evidence Act 1893) to observe secrecy; or

(b) any information subject to legal privilege.

 (8) The chief executive officer or an authorised investigating
officer may by written notice given to a person, require the person to
give —

(a) orally or in writing; or

(b) with the prior written consent of the person, through the
     electronic service,

a document or any information that is relevant to an investigation of,
or the prosecution of a person for, an offence under this Part.

 (9) The time for compliance with a written notice under
subsection (8) is 21 days after the date of service of the notice or
any other period that the chief executive officer or authorised
investigating officer considers appropriate.

 (10) The chief executive officer or an authorised investigating
officer may by written notice require any person to attend personally
before the chief executive officer or authorised investigating officer,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
    Inland Revenue Authority of

19  Singapore Act 1992                                        2020 Ed.

at the place and time specified in the notice, to do one or both of the
following:

    (a) provide, to the best of that person’s knowledge,
         information and belief, any information that is relevant
         to an investigation of, or the prosecution of a person for, an
         offence under this Part;

    (b) take reasonable steps to produce for inspection any
         document that contains such information.

 (11) The power to require a person to provide information or
produce a document under subsection (1)(g) or (8), or when in
attendance before the chief executive officer or an authorised
investigating officer pursuant to a written notice under subsection
(10), includes the power —

    (a) to require that person, or any person who is or was an
         officer or employee of that person, to provide an
         explanation of the information or document;

    (b) if the information is not provided or the document is not
         produced, to require that person to state, to the best of the
         person’s knowledge and belief, where it is;

    (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
        form, to require the information to be made available to the
        chief executive officer or authorised investigating officer
        (as the case may be) in legible form; and

    (d) in the case of a document, to inspect, copy or make extracts
         from the document without fee or reward, and to take
         possession of the document if, in the chief executive
         officer’s or authorised investigating officer’s opinion —

    (i) the inspection, copying or extraction cannot
        reasonably be performed without taking possession
        of the document;

    (ii) the document may be interfered with or destroyed
         unless possession of the document is taken; or

    (iii) the document may be required as evidence in
          proceedings for an offence under this Part.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
          Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1992                                        20

 (12) A statement made by any person asked under
subsection (1)(g)(i), or when in attendance before the chief
executive officer or an authorised investigating officer pursuant to
a written notice under subsection (10), must —

(a) be reduced to writing;

(b) be read over to the person;

          (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted
              for the person in a language that the person understands;
              and

(d) be signed by the person.

 (13) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes any
notice or requirement of the chief executive officer or an authorised
investigating officer under this section shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

(b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
     exceeding $100 for every day or part of a day during which
     the offence continues after conviction.

 (14) The generality of the term “reasonable excuse” in subsection
(13) is not affected by subsection (7).

 (15) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, hinders or
obstructs the chief executive officer or an authorised investigating
officer in the performance or execution of his or her duties or of
anything that he or she is empowered or required to do under this
section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (16) Except as provided under subsection (7), it is not a defence to a
charge under subsection (13) for a failure to provide any information
or produce any document under any notice or requirement under this
section, that the person is under a duty of secrecy in respect of that
information or the contents of that document (called in this section a
displaced duty of secrecy).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
    Inland Revenue Authority of

21                      Singapore Act 1992                    2020 Ed.

 (17) A person who in good faith complies with any notice or
requirement under this section is not treated as being in breach of a
displaced duty of secrecy.

 (18) No civil or criminal action for a breach of a displaced duty of
secrecy, other than a criminal action for an offence under subsection
(19), lies against the person mentioned in subsection (17) —

    (a) for producing any document or providing any information
         if the person had done so in good faith in compliance with
         the notice or requirement under this section; or

    (b) for doing or omitting to do any act if the person had done or
         omitted to do the act in good faith and as a result of
         complying with the notice or requirement under this
         section.

 (19) Any person who, in purported compliance with a notice or
requirement of the chief executive officer or an authorised
investigating officer under this section, produces any document
which contains any information, or provides any information, known
to the person to be false or misleading in a material particular —

    (a) without indicating to the chief executive officer or the
         authorised investigating officer that the information is false
         or misleading and the part that is false or misleading; and

    (b) without providing correct information to the chief
         executive officer or the authorised investigating officer if
         the person is in possession of, or can reasonably acquire,
         the correct information,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2
years or to both.

(20) In this section —

    “advocate and solicitor” means an advocate and solicitor within
       the meaning of the Legal Profession Act 1966;

    “arrestable offence” means an offence for which the chief
       executive officer or a specially authorised officer may
       ordinarily arrest without warrant under section 17I(1);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
          Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1992                                        22

“computer” and “computer output” have the meanings given by
   section 2(1) of the Computer Misuse Act 1993;

“document” includes, in addition to a document in writing —

          (a) any map, plan, graph or drawing;

          (b) any photograph;

          (c) any label, marking or other writing which identifies
              or describes anything of which it forms a part, or to
              which it is attached by any means;

          (d) any disc, tape, soundtrack or other device in which
               sounds or other data (not being visual images) are
               embodied so as to be capable (with or without the aid
               of some other equipment) of being reproduced from
               it;

          (e) any film (including microfilm), negative, tape, disc
              or other device in which one or more visual images
              are embodied so as to be capable (with or without the
              aid of some other equipment) of being reproduced
              from it; and

          (f) any paper or other material on which there are marks,
              impressions, figures, letters, symbols or perforations
              having a meaning for persons qualified to interpret
              them;

“information subject to legal privilege” means —

          (a) communications between an advocate and solicitor
               and his or her client or any person representing his or
               her client made in connection with the giving of legal
               advice to the client; and

          (b) communications between —

          (i) an advocate and solicitor and his or her client or
              any person representing his or her client; or

          (ii) an advocate and solicitor or his or her client or
               any person representing his or her client, and
               any other person,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
    Inland Revenue Authority of

23  Singapore Act 1992                                        2020 Ed.

    (b) made in connection with, or in contemplation of,
         judicial proceedings and for the purposes of such
         proceedings,

    when such communications are in the possession of a person
    who is entitled to possession of them, but excluding, in any
    case, any communications made with the intention of
    furthering a criminal purpose;

    “writing” includes any mode of representing or reproducing
       words, figures, drawings or symbols in a visible form.

                        [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

Arrest of persons

 17I.—(1) The chief executive officer or a specially authorised
officer (called in this section and sections 17J, 17K and 17L an
arresting officer), may arrest without warrant any person whom the
arresting officer reasonably believes —

       (a) has committed any offence under section 17F(5); or

       (b) is doing any of the following:

               (i) destroying or attempting to destroy any document or
                   thing with a view to hindering or obstructing the
                   chief executive officer or an authorised investigating
                   officer in the exercise of his or her powers;

              (ii) deleting or attempting to delete any information
                   contained in any thing with a view to hindering or
                   obstructing the chief executive officer or an
                   authorised investigating officer in the exercise of
                   his or her powers;

             (iii) resisting or attempting to resist, without reasonable
                   excuse, the taking of any document or thing by the
                   chief executive officer or an authorised investigating
                   officer in the exercise of his or her powers,

       (b) being any document, thing or information that may be
            relevant to an investigation of an offence under this Part, or
            that may be required as evidence in proceedings for an
            offence under this Part.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
          Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1992                                        24

 (2) An arresting officer may search or cause to be searched an
arrested person.

(3) A woman must not be searched except by a woman.

 (4) An arresting officer making an arrest must, without unnecessary
delay and subject to subsection (7) and the regulations mentioned in
subsection (9), take or send an arrested person before a Magistrate’s
Court.

 (5) An arresting officer must not detain in custody an arrested
person for a longer period than under the circumstances of the case is
reasonable.

 (6) Such period must not exceed 48 hours, excluding the time
necessary for the journey from the place of arrest to the Magistrate’s
Court.

(7) An arrested person must not be released except —

(a) on the person’s own bond;

(b) on bail by a Magistrate or an arresting officer; or

          (c) under the special order in writing by a Magistrate or an
              arresting officer.

 (8) If any arrested person escapes, he or she may, at any time
afterwards, be arrested in accordance with this section and
section 17J.

 (9) The Authority, with the approval of the Minister, may make
regulations under section 31 to provide for —

(a) any matter relating to the release of any person on any
     bond, bail or special order under subsection (7); and

(b) the arrest of any person with or without warrant by an
     arresting officer for a breach of the conditions of a bond,
     bail or special order or other specified circumstances.

                                                                     [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
    Inland Revenue Authority of

25  Singapore Act 1992                                        2020 Ed.

No unnecessary restraint

 17J.—(1) In making an arrest, an arresting officer must touch or
confine the body of a person to be arrested unless the person submits
to arrest by word or action.

 (2) If the person forcibly resists or tries to evade arrest, the arresting
officer may use all reasonable means necessary to make the arrest.

 (3) An arrested person must not be subject to more restraint than is
necessary to prevent the person’s escape.

 (4) An arresting officer may use handcuffs or any similar means of
restraint on an arrested person to prevent the person from —

    (a) inflicting any bodily injury to himself or herself or others;

    (b) damaging any property;

    (c) creating any disturbance; or

    (d) escaping from custody.

 (5) The handcuffs or means of restraint must not be used for the
purpose of punishment.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

Arresting officer to be armed

 17K. An arresting officer may be provided with such batons and
accoutrements as may be necessary for the effective discharge of his
or her duties under sections 17I and 17J.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

Search of place entered by person sought to be arrested

 17L.—(1) If an arresting officer has reason to believe that a person
to be arrested under section 17I(1) is inside any building or place and
demands entry to that building or place, any person who resides in or
is in charge of the building or place must allow the arresting officer
free entry and provide all reasonable facilities for a search in it.

 (2) If entry to that building or place cannot be gained under
subsection (1), it is lawful for the arresting officer to enter and search
the building or place.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
          Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1992                                        26

(3) For the purposes of subsection (2), if an arresting officer —

(a) has stated his or her authority and purpose and demanded
     entry to a building or place; but

(b) is unable to obtain entry,

he or she may break open any outer or inner door or window, or use
any other reasonable means, to gain such entry.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

Arrested person may be examined orally

 17M.—(1) The chief executive officer or an authorised
investigating officer (called in this section an examining officer)
may examine orally a person arrested under section 17I(1).

 (2) A person examined by an examining officer need not state
anything that —

       (a) the person is under any statutory obligation (other than
            sections 128, 128A, 129 and 131 of the Evidence Act
            1893) to observe secrecy; or

       (b) is information subject to legal privilege.

 (3) A statement made by an arrested person must —

       (a) be reduced to writing;

       (b) be read over to the person;

       (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted
            for the person in a language that the person understands;
            and

       (d) be signed by the person.

 (4) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails or refuses to
answer any question when examined under subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or to both.

 (5) The generality of the term “reasonable excuse” in subsection (4)
is not affected by subsection (2).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
    Inland Revenue Authority of

27  Singapore Act 1992                                        2020 Ed.

 (6) Except as provided under subsection (2), it is not a defence to a
charge under subsection (4) for a failure to provide any information
required by an examining officer that the person is under a duty of
secrecy in respect of that information (called in this section a
displaced duty of secrecy).

 (7) A person who in good faith provides information required by an
examining officer under subsection (1) is not treated as being in
breach of a displaced duty of secrecy.

 (8) No civil or criminal action for a breach of a displaced duty of
secrecy, other than a criminal action for an offence under
subsection (9), lies against the person mentioned in subsection (7)
for providing any information if the person had done so in good faith
in compliance with a requirement of an examining officer under
subsection (1).

 (9) Any person who, in purported compliance with a requirement of
an examining officer under subsection (1), provides any information
known to the person to be false or misleading in a material
particular —

    (a) without indicating to the examining officer that the
         information is false or misleading and the part that is
         false or misleading; and

    (b) without providing correct information to the examining
         officer if the person is in possession of, or can reasonably
         acquire, the correct information,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2
years or to both.

 (10) In this section, “information subject to legal privilege” has the
meaning given by section 17H(20).

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

Disposal of item given or seized

 17N.—(1) Any item given to or seized by the chief executive
officer or an authorised investigating officer under section 17G or
17H must —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
          Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1992                                        28

(a) where the item is produced in any criminal proceedings, be
     dealt with in accordance with section 364 of the Criminal
     Procedure Code 2010; or

(b) in any other case, be dealt with in accordance with
     subsections (2), (3) and (4).

 (2) The chief executive officer or an authorised investigating
officer must serve a written notice on the owner of the item
instructing the owner to take custody of it within the period specified
in the notice, which must be at least 5 days after the date of service of
the notice.

 (3) If the owner fails to take custody of the item within the period
specified in the notice, or where the owner is unknown or cannot be
found, then —

(a) if the item is a document (other than one specified in
     paragraph (d) or (e) of the definition of “document” in
     section 17H(20)), the item may be disposed of in any
     manner that the chief executive officer directs; or

(b) if the item is anything not specified in paragraph (a), the
     chief executive officer must make a report of this to a
     Magistrate.

 (4) The Magistrate to whom a report is made under
subsection (3)(b) may order the item to be forfeited or disposed of
in any manner that the Magistrate thinks fit.

 (5) This section does not affect any right to retain or dispose of any
item which may exist in law apart from this section.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

                                    PART 6

   TRANSFER OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND EMPLOYEES

Transfer to Authority of property, assets and liabilities of
Inland Revenue Department

 18.—(1) As from 1 September 1992, all movable property vested in
the Government immediately before that date and used or managed
by the Inland Revenue Department, and all assets, interests, rights,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
    Inland Revenue Authority of

29  Singapore Act 1992                                        2020 Ed.

privileges, liabilities and obligations of the Government relating to
that Department (other than those in connection with taxes or licence
fees for which the Department is responsible) are transferred to and
vest in the Authority without further assurance.

 (2) If any question arises as to whether any particular property, or
whether any particular asset, interest, right, privilege, liability or
obligation has been transferred to or vested in the Authority under
subsection (1), a certificate under the hand of the Minister for Finance
is conclusive evidence that the property, asset, interest, right,
privilege, liability or obligation was or was not so transferred or
vested.

Transfer of employees

 19.—(1) As from 1 September 1992, such categories of persons
employed immediately before that date in the Inland Revenue
Department as the Minister may determine are transferred to the
service of the Authority on terms not less favourable than those
enjoyed by them immediately prior to their transfer.

 (2) Until such time as terms and conditions of service are drawn up
by the Authority, the scheme and terms and conditions of service in
the Government continue to apply to every person transferred to the
service of the Authority under subsection (1) as if the person were
still in the service of the Government.

Pension rights, etc., of Government employees to be preserved

 20.—(1) The terms and conditions to be drawn up by the Authority
must take into account the salaries and terms and conditions of
service, including any accrued rights to leave, enjoyed by the persons
transferred to the service of the Authority under section 19 while in
the employment of the Government; and any such term or condition
relating to the length of service with the Authority must provide for
the recognition of service under the Government by the persons so
transferred to be service by them under the Authority.

 (2) Nothing in the terms and conditions to be drawn up by the
Authority is to adversely affect the conditions that would have been
applicable to persons transferred to the service of the Authority as

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
          Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1992                                        30

regards any pension, gratuity or allowance payable under the
Pensions Act 1956.

 (3) In every case where a person has been transferred to the service
of the Authority under section 19, the Government is liable to pay to
the Authority such portion of any pension, gratuity or allowance
payable to such person on that person’s retirement as the same bears
to the proportion which the aggregate amount of that person’s
pensionable emoluments during that person’s service with the
Government bears to the aggregate amount of that person’s
pensionable emoluments during that person’s service under both
the Government and the Authority.

 (4) Where any person in the service of the Authority whose case
does not fall within the scope of any pension or other schemes
established under this section retires or dies in the service of the
Authority or is discharged from such service, the Authority may grant
to that person or to such other person or persons wholly or partly
dependent on that person, as the Authority thinks fit, such gratuity or
allowance as the Authority may determine.

 (5) Where any person who is transferred to the service of the
Authority under section 19 is a contributor under the Widows’ and
Orphans’ Pension Act 1904, that person must for the purposes of that
Act continue to make contributions under that Act as if that person
had not been transferred to the service of the Authority and for the
purposes of that Act that person’s service with the Authority is
deemed to be service with the Government.

No benefits in respect of abolition or reorganisation of office

 21. Despite the provisions of the Pensions Act 1956, no person who
is transferred to the service of the Authority under section 19 is
entitled to claim any benefit under the Pensions Act 1956 on the
ground that that person has been retired from the service of the
Government on account of abolition or reorganisation of office in
consequence of the establishment and incorporation of the Authority.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
                    Inland Revenue Authority of

31                  Singapore Act 1992                        2020 Ed.

Existing contracts

 22. All deeds, bonds, agreements, instruments and arrangements,
subsisting immediately before 1 September 1992, to which the
Government is a party and relating to the Inland Revenue Department
or to any person transferred to the service of the Authority under
section 19, continue in force on and after that date and are enforceable
by or against the Authority as if the Authority had been named therein
or had been a party thereto instead of the Government.

Continuation and completion of disciplinary proceedings

 23.—(1) Where on 1 September 1992 any disciplinary proceedings
were pending against any employee of the Government transferred to
the service of the Authority, the proceedings may be carried on and
completed by the Authority; but where on that date any matter was in
the course of being heard or investigated or had been heard or
investigated by a committee acting under due authority but no order
or decision had been rendered on that matter, the committee may
complete the hearing or investigation and make such order, ruling or
direction as it could have made under the authority vested in it before
that date.

 (2) An order, ruling or direction made or given by a committee
pursuant to this section is treated as an order, ruling or direction of the
Authority and has the same force or effect as if it had been made or
given by the Authority pursuant to the authority vested in the
Authority under this Act.

Misconduct or neglect of duty by employee before transfer

 24. The Authority may reprimand, reduce in rank, retire, dismiss or
punish in some other manner a person who had, while in the
employment of the Government, been guilty of any misconduct or
neglect of duty which would have rendered the person liable to be
reprimanded, reduced in rank, retired, dismissed or punished in some
other manner if the person had continued to be in the employment of
the Government and if this Act had not been enacted.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
          Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1992                                        32

          PART 7

          GENERAL

No proceedings against Authority as agent of Government

 25. No action or legal proceedings shall be brought against the
Authority in respect of any matter relating to any tax for which the
Authority is acting as agent of the Government.

Proceedings conducted by officers of Authority

 26.—(1) Proceedings in respect of any offence under this Act or
any regulations made under this Act or any of the Acts specified in the
Third Schedule or any subsidiary legislation made under any of those
Acts may, with the authorisation of the Public Prosecutor, be
conducted by an officer of the Authority who is authorised to
conduct such proceedings by the Commissioner of Inland Revenue.

 (2) Despite any written law, a legal officer of the Authority who has
been admitted as an advocate and solicitor under the Legal Profession
Act 1966 may appear in any civil proceedings involving the
Authority or any person holding any of the offices specified in the
Fourth Schedule in the performance of his or her functions under any
written law so specified, and may make and do all acts and
applications in respect of such proceedings on behalf of the
Authority or such person, as the case may be.

Preservation of secrecy

 27.—(1) Except for the purpose of the performance of his or her
duties or the exercise of his or her functions or when lawfully
required to do so by any court or where required or allowed by the
provisions of any written law, a person who is or has been a member,
an officer, an employee or an agent of the Authority or a member of a
committee of the Authority must not disclose any information
relating to the affairs of the Authority or of any other person which
has been obtained by that person in the performance of his or her
duties or the exercise of his or her functions.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
    Inland Revenue Authority of

33  Singapore Act 1992                                        2020 Ed.

$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to
both.

Protection of informers

 27A.—(1) Except as provided in subsection (3), no witness in any
civil or criminal proceedings commenced is obliged or permitted —

       (a) to disclose the identity of an informer who has given any
            information with respect to an offence under Part 5A; or

       (b) to answer any question if the answer to the question would
            lead, or would tend to lead, to the discovery of the identity
            of the informer.

 (2) If any document which is in evidence or liable to inspection in
any civil or criminal proceedings contains any entry in which any
informer is named or described or which may lead to the discovery of
the informer’s identity, the court must cause the entry to be concealed
from view or to be obliterated so far only as may be necessary to
protect the informer from discovery.

 (3) If —

       (a) in any proceedings for an offence under any written law,
            the court, after full enquiry into the case, believes that the
            informer wilfully made a material statement which the
            informer knew or believed to be false or did not believe to
            be true; or

       (b) in any other proceedings, the court is of the opinion that
            justice cannot be fully done between the parties to the
            proceedings without the discovery of the informer,

the court may permit enquiry and require full disclosure concerning
the informer.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

Authority’s symbol

 28.—(1) The Authority has the exclusive right to the use of such
symbol or representation as it may select or devise and display or
exhibit such symbol or representation in connection with its activities
or affairs.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
          Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1992                                        34

 (2) Any person who uses a symbol or representation identical with
that of the Authority, or which so resembles the Authority’s symbol or
representation as to deceive or cause confusion, or to be likely to
deceive or cause confusion, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Composition of offences

 28A.—(1) The Authority may compound any offence under Part
5A that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
not exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine prescribed and
            penalty payable (if any) for that offence;

       (b) $10,000.

 (2) On payment of such sum of money, no further proceedings are
to be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

Service of documents, etc.

 28B.—(1) Except where it is provided by this Act that service must
be effected either personally or by registered post, every document
required or authorised by this Act to be served on any person may be
served —

       (a) personally;

       (b) by sending it by ordinary post addressed to the person at
            the person’s usual or last known place of residence or
            business; or

       (c) for a document or any information to be given under
            section 17H(8)(b) — through the electronic service.

 (2) If a document is served by ordinary or registered post, it is taken
to have been duly served at the time the document would have been

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
    Inland Revenue Authority of

35  Singapore Act 1992                                        2020 Ed.

received in the ordinary course of post if the document is
addressed —

    (a) in the case of a company incorporated in Singapore, to the
         registered office of the company;

    (b) in the case of a company incorporated outside Singapore,
         either to the individual authorised to accept service of
         process under the Companies Act 1967 at the address filed
         with the Registrar of Companies, or to the registered office
         of the company wherever it may be situated;

    (c) in the case of an individual, to the last known residential or
        business address of the individual; and

    (d) in the case of a partnership or body of persons, to the last
         known business address of the partnership or body of
         persons.

 (3) If any document is served by registered post in accordance with
subsection (2), in proving service of the document, it is sufficient to
prove that the envelope containing the document was properly
addressed, stamped and posted by registered post.

 (4) Every document to be served by the Authority or chief
executive officer under this Act must be signed by the chief
executive officer or by some person or persons from time to time
authorised by the Authority in that behalf.

 (5) Every such document is valid if the signature or an official
facsimile thereof of the chief executive officer or of such authorised
person or persons is duly printed or written thereon.

 (6) Any document under this Act requiring the attendance of any
person or witness before the chief executive officer must be signed by
the chief executive officer or by a person duly authorised by the chief
executive officer.

 (7) In this section, “document” has the meaning given by
section 29(7).

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
                    Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.            Singapore Act 1992                              36

Electronic service

29.—(1) The Authority may establish a system providing for —

(a) the electronic service —

          (i) by a person (or an electronic service agent on behalf
              of such a person) on the Authority or an officer of the
              Authority administering any relevant tax legislation;
              or

          (ii) by the Authority, or an officer of the Authority
               administering any relevant tax legislation, on a
               person or an electronic service agent on behalf of
               such a person,

       (a) of a document or any information, which is permitted or
            required by or under any relevant tax legislation to be
            served or given;

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

      (aa) the electronic service by a person of a document or any
            information under section 17H(8)(b); and

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

       (b) the electronic registration of a person, transaction or matter
            that is permitted or required by or under a relevant tax
            legislation to be registered, and the cancellation of the
            same.

                                                                               [Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

 (1A) The Authority may establish and publish on its website the
procedure for —

(a) the proper use of the system, including the procedure in
     circumstances where there is a breakdown of the system or
     an interruption in any electronic service using the system;
     and

(b) the correction or amendment of any document or
     information that is electronically served or given using
     the system.

                                                                    [Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
    Inland Revenue Authority of

37  Singapore Act 1992                                        2020 Ed.

 (2) Regulations may be made under section 31 regarding the
administration and use of the system provided under this section,
including —

    (a) the assignment of authentication codes and accounts to
         users of the service;

    (b) the circumstances under which authentication codes and
         accounts of users may be cancelled or suspended;

    (c) the registration of electronic service agents of account
        holders, including the qualifications to be registered as
        electronic service agents, and the cancellation and
        suspension of such registration;

    (d) the manner in which an electronic service agent may be
         authorised by a person to give or serve on behalf of that
         person through the electronic service a document or any
         information; and

                                                                        [Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

    (e) the inspection by the Authority (or any person authorised
         in writing by the Authority) of records and accounts kept
         by electronic service agents relating to the use of the
         system.

                                                                        [Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

    (f) [Deleted by Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

    (g) [Deleted by Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

    (h) [Deleted by Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

 (3) Where a document or any information which is permitted or
required by or under any relevant tax legislation or section 17H(8)(b)
to be served or given, is served or given electronically using the
system provided under subsection (1), the following have effect
despite any Act to the contrary:

    (a) the document or information is deemed for the purposes of
         that legislation to be served on or given to the recipient at
         the time when the electronic record of the document or
         information (as the case may be) enters the recipient’s
         account with the electronic service;

                                                                        [Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
          Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1992                                        38

(b) where the electronic service is done by an electronic
     service agent on behalf of any person (called in this
     subsection the principal) —

          (i) the document or information is deemed to be served
              or given with the authority of that person; and

          (ii) the principal is to be treated to be cognizant of all
               matters in the document or record containing the
               information,

(b) unless that principal has, before the electronic service is
     done, informed the Authority in the prescribed manner that
     the principal has revoked the authority of the electronic
     service agent for the serving or giving of the document or
     information in question;

                                                                    [Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

(c) where the document or information is served or given
     using the authentication code assigned to a person before
     that person applies to cancel the authentication code —

               (i) the document or information is, for the purposes of
                   that legislation, presumed to have been served or
                   given by that person unless the person adduces
                   evidence to the contrary; and

                                                                               [Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

              (ii) if that person alleges that he or she did not serve or
                   give the document or information, the burden lies on
                   the person to adduce evidence of that fact.

                                                                               [Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

 (4) Despite any other Act, an electronic record of a document or any
information which is permitted or required by or under any relevant
tax legislation or section 17H(8)(b) to be served or given, that was
served or given using the system provided under subsection (1), or
any copy or print-out of that electronic record, is, in any proceedings
under that legislation, admissible as evidence of the facts stated or
contained therein if that electronic record, copy or print-out —

(a) is certified by the Chief Executive (or an officer of the
     Authority he or she designates) to contain all or any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
    Inland Revenue Authority of

39  Singapore Act 1992                                        2020 Ed.

    information filed, submitted or served through the
    electronic service in accordance with this section; or

       (b) is duly authenticated in the manner specified in
            subsection (6) or is otherwise authenticated in the
            manner provided in the Evidence Act 1893 for the
            authentication of computer output.

                                                                               [Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

 (5) Where the electronic record of any document or information, or
a copy or print-out of that electronic record, is admissible under
subsection (4), it must be presumed, until the contrary is proved, that
the electronic record, copy or print-out accurately reproduces the
contents of that document or information.

                                                                               [Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

 (6) For the purposes of this section, a certificate —

    (a) giving the particulars of —

    (i) any person whose authentication code was used to
        serve or give the document or information using the
        system; or

          (ii) any person or device involved in the production or
                transmission of the electronic record of the document
                or information, or the copy or print-out;

                                                                        [Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

    (b) identifying the nature of the electronic record or a copy or
         print-out; and

    (c) purporting to be signed by the Chief Executive or an
        officer of the Authority he or she designates at the relevant
        time,

is sufficient evidence that the electronic record, copy or print-out has
been duly authenticated, unless the court, in its discretion, calls for
further evidence on this issue.

 (7) For the purposes of this section and any regulations made for the
purposes of this section —

    “authentication code”, in relation to any person, means an
       identification or identifying code, a password or any other

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
          Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1992                                        40

          authentication method or procedure which is assigned to that
          person for the purposes of identifying and authenticating the
          access to, and use of, the system provided under
          subsection (1) by that person, and includes one assigned
          for such purposes in order to file, submit or retrieve a
          particular document only;

“document” means an application, return, notice, direction,
   order, permit, receipt, declaration, estimate, statement or
   other document;

                                                                       [Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

“electronic record” has the meaning given by the Electronic
   Transactions Act 2010;

“relevant tax legislation”, for any document or information
   permitted or required by or under such legislation to be
   served or given, means —

          (a) this section and any regulations made under
               section 31 for the purposes of this section;

          (b) in the case of subsection (1)(a)(i) — a provision of
               any Act specified in the Third Schedule, or any
               subsidiary legislation made under any of those Acts,
               which permits, requires, or enables an officer
               administering that Act to require the document or
               information to be served or given by means of the
               system; or

        (c) in the case of subsection (1)(a)(ii) — a provision of
             any Act specified in the Third Schedule, or any
             subsidiary legislation made under any of those Acts,
             which provides for a method for the service or giving
             of any document or information of that kind if the
             recipient consents (expressly or impliedly) to the
             service or giving of any document or information of
             that kind in that way;

                                                                       [Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]

“relevant tax legislation”, for the registration of any person,
   transaction or matter, means a provision of any Act specified

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
    Inland Revenue Authority of

41  Singapore Act 1992                                        2020 Ed.

    in the Third Schedule, or any subsidiary legislation made
    under any of those Acts, which provides for the registration
    of any person, transaction or matter.

                         [Act 1 of 2022 wef 29/07/2022]
                        [Act 33 of 2022 wef 26/04/2024]
                        [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

Power of Minister to amend Second, Third and Fourth
Schedules

 30. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend the Second,
Third or Fourth Schedule.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

Regulations

 31.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this
Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may, with the
approval of the Minister, make regulations for or with respect to all or
any of the following matters:

       (a) the manner of appointment, conduct and discipline and the
            terms and conditions of service of the officers and
            employees of the Authority;

       (b) the payment of gratuities and other benefits to officers and
            employees of the Authority;

       (c) the fees to be charged in respect of anything done under or
            by virtue of this Act;

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

       (d) anything required to be prescribed or in relation to which
            regulations may be made under this section.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
          Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1992                                        42

          FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 5(2)

           CONSTITUTION AND PROCEEDINGS OF AUTHORITY

Appointment of Chairperson, Deputy Chairperson and other members

 1.—(1) Every member of the Authority must be appointed by the Minister from
among persons who have had experience in public administration or financial, tax
or commercial matters.

 (2) The Minister may appoint one of the members to be the Chairperson and
another of the members to be the Deputy Chairperson.

 (3) The Deputy Chairperson appointed under sub‑paragraph (2) may, subject to
such directions as may be given by the Minister, exercise all or any of the powers
exercisable by the Chairperson under this Act.

 (4) The Minister may appoint the chief executive officer to be a member of the
Authority.

Terms of office of members of Authority

 2. A member holds office on such terms and conditions and for such period as
the Minister may determine and is eligible for re‑appointment.

Temporary members

 3. The Minister may appoint any person to be a temporary member of the
Authority during the temporary incapacity from illness or otherwise, or during the
temporary absence from Singapore, of any member.

Revocation of appointment

 4. The Minister may, at any time, revoke the appointment of the Chairperson,
Deputy Chairperson or any member; and in exercising the Minister’s power under
this paragraph, the Minister is not required to give any reason for the revocation.

Resignation

 5. Any member may resign from his or her appointment at any time by giving
written notice to the Minister.

Chairperson may delegate functions

 6. The Chairperson may, by instrument in writing, authorise any member to
exercise any power or perform any function conferred on the Chairperson by or
under this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
                    Inland Revenue Authority of

43                  Singapore Act 1992                        2020 Ed.

                    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Vacation of office

7. The office of a member is vacated if the member —

    (a) has been absent, without leave of the Authority, from 3 consecutive
         meetings of the Authority; or

    (b) becomes in any manner disqualified from membership of the
         Authority.

Filling of vacancies

 8. If a member resigns, dies or has his or her appointment revoked or otherwise
vacates his or her office before the expiry of the term for which he or she has been
appointed, the Minister may appoint a person to fill the vacancy for the residue of
the term for which the vacating member was appointed.

Disqualification from membership

 9. A person must not be appointed or continue to hold office as a member if he or
she —

        (a) is an undischarged bankrupt or has made any arrangement with his or
             her creditors; or

        (b) has been sentenced to imprisonment for a term of not less than
             6 months and has not received a free pardon.

Salaries, etc., payable to members of Authority

 10. There are to be paid to the members out of the funds of the Authority such
salaries, fees and allowances as the Minister may determine.

Meetings of Authority

 11.—(1) The Authority may meet for the despatch of business at such times and
places as the Chairperson may appoint.

 (2) At every meeting of the Authority, 5 members form a quorum.

 (3) A decision at a meeting of the Authority is to be adopted by a simple majority
of the members present and voting except that, in the case of an equality of votes,
the Chairperson or member presiding has a casting vote in addition to his or her
original vote.

 (4) The Chairperson or in his or her absence the Deputy Chairperson presides at
meetings of the Authority.

 (5) Where both the Chairperson and the Deputy Chairperson are absent at a
meeting, the members present may elect a member to preside at that meeting.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
           Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.   Singapore Act 1992                                        44

           FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Vacancies

12. The Authority may act despite any vacancy in its membership.

Procedure at meetings

 13. Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, the Authority may make rules to regulate its own procedure generally,
and in particular, regarding the holding and proceedings of meetings, the notice to
be given of the meetings, the keeping of minutes and the custody, production and
inspection of the minutes.

Validity of proceedings

 14. The validity of any proceedings of the Authority is not affected by any defect
in the appointment of any member.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

                        SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                              Sections 2 and 30

                        SCHEDULED PUBLIC SCHEMES

1. The wage credit scheme introduced by the Government in 2013

2. The schemes known as the Senior Employment Credit, Enabling
   Employment Credit and CPF Transition Offset that were introduced in the
   Budget Statement of the Government dated 18 February 2020

3. The Jobs Support Scheme introduced in the Budget Statement of the
   Government dated 18 February 2020

4. The SkillsFuture Enterprise Credit introduced in the Budget Statement of the
   Government dated 18 February 2020

5. The foreign worker levy rebate introduced in the Ministerial Statement on
   Additional Support Measures in Response to Elevated Safe Distancing
   Measures dated 6 April 2020

6. The scheme established for the giving of cash grants to mitigate rental costs,
   that is part of the Budget Statement of the Government dated 26 May 2020,
   including cash grants given under that public scheme which are not subject
   to Part 2A of the COVID‑19 (Temporary Measures) Act 2020

7. The Jobs Growth Incentive introduced in the Ministerial Statement on
   Continued Support for Workers and Jobs dated 17 August 2020

           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
    Inland Revenue Authority of

45                         Singapore Act 1992                 2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

8. The scheme known as the Rental Support Scheme that was first announced
   publicly on 28 May 2021

9. The scheme known as the Small Business Recovery Grant that was
   introduced in the Budget Statement of the Government dated 18 February
   2022

10. The scheme known as the Progressive Wage Credit Scheme that was
     introduced in the Budget Statement of the Government dated 18 February
     2022

11. The scheme known as the Uplifting Employment Credit that was introduced
     in the Budget Statement of the Government dated 14 February 2023

                                                                              [Act 11 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

12. The scheme known as the Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) Cash Grant
     2026 that was first announced publicly on 29 July 2026

                                                                                  [S 589/2026 wef 11/09/2026]

                         THIRD SCHEDULE

                                               Sections 26(1) and 30

                            SPECIFIED ACTS

1. Appraisers Act 1906.

2. Gambling Duties Act 2022.

                                               [Act 1 of 2022 wef 29/07/2022]

3. Part 9 of the Casino Control Act 2006.

4. Economic Expansion Incentives (Relief from Income Tax) Act 1967.

5. Estate Duty Act 1929.

6. Goods and Services Tax Act 1993.

7. Income Tax Act 1947.

8. Private Lotteries Act 2011.

9. Property Tax Act 1960.

10. Stamp Duties Act 1929.

11. Multinational Enterprise (Minimum Tax) Act 2024.

                                                                              [Act 36 of 2024 wef 20/03/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
          Inland Revenue Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 1992                                        46

          FOURTH SCHEDULE

                                                                                         Sections 26(2) and 30

                                SPECIFIED OFFICES

1. The Comptroller of Income Tax under the Income Tax Act 1947, the
   Economic Expansion Incentives (Relief from Income Tax) Act 1967, Part 9
   of the Casino Control Act 2006, and the Multinational Enterprise (Minimum
   Tax) Act 2024.

                                                                            [Act 36 of 2024 wef 20/03/2025]

2. The Comptroller of Property Tax or the Chief Assessor under the Property
   Tax Act 1960.

3. The Commissioner of Stamp Duties under the Stamp Duties Act 1929.

4. The Commissioner of Estate Duties under the Estate Duty Act 1929.

5. The Comptroller of Goods and Services Tax under the Goods and Services
   Tax Act 1993.

6. The Commissioner of Gambling Duties under the Gambling Duties Act
   2022.

                                                                             [Act 1 of 2022 wef 29/07/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
                   LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

           INLAND REVENUE AUTHORITY OF
                    SINGAPORE ACT 1992

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 25 of 1992 — Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore Act 1992

Bill           : 26/1992

First Reading  : 29 May 1992

Second and Third Readings : 31 July 1992

Commencement   : 1 September 1992

2. 1993 Revised Edition — Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore Act
                                    (Chapter 138A)

Operation      : 15 March 1993

3. G.N. No. S 37/1994 — Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore Act
                                 (Amendment of Third and Fourth Schedules)
                                 Order 1994

Commencement   : 28 January 1994

4. Act 5 of 1996 — Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore (Amendment)
                          Act 1996

Bill           : 42/1995

First Reading  : 5 December 1995

Second and Third Readings : 18 January 1996

Commencement   : 9 February 1996

5. Act 22 of 2000 — Auctioneers’ Licenses (Amendment) Act 2000
   (Amendments made by section 14(3) of the above Act)

Bill           : 17/2000

First Reading  : 22 May 2000

Second and Third Readings : 3 July 2000

Commencement   : 1 August 2000 (section 14(3))

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
               ii

6. Act 5 of 2002 — Statutory Corporations (Capital Contribution) Act 2002
   (Amendments made by section 3 read with item (14) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill           : 7/2002

First Reading  : 3 May 2002

Second and Third Readings : 24 May 2002

Commencement   : 15 July 2002 (section 3 read with
                     item 66(14) of the Schedule)

7. Act 27 of 2004 — Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore (Amendment)
                          Act 2004

Bill           : 26/2004

First Reading  : 15 June 2004

Second and Third Readings : 20 July 2004

Commencement   : 13 August 2004

8. Act 45 of 2004 — Trustees (Amendment) Act 2004
   (Amendments made by section 25(4) read with item (18) of the Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill           : 43/2004

First Reading  : 21 September 2004

Second and Third Readings : 19 October 2004

Commencement   : 15 December 2004 (section 25(4) read
                     with item (18) of the Schedule)

9. Act 16 of 2005 — Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore (Amendment)
                          Act 2005

Bill           : 5/2005

First Reading  : 4 March 2005

Second and Third Readings : 21 April 2005

Commencement   : 9 May 2005

10. Act 10 of 2007 — Charities (Amendment) Act 2007
     (Amendments made by section 22 read with item (3) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 22/2006

First Reading  : 8 November 2006

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
                iii

Second and Third Readings : 23 January 2007

Commencement    : 1 March 2007 (section 22 read with
                      item (3) of the Schedule)

11. G.N. No. S 398/2007 — Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore Act
                                    (Amendment of Third and Fourth Schedules)
                                    Order 2007

Commencement    : 25 July 2007

12. G.N. No. S 423/2008 — Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore Act
                                    (Amendment of Third and Fourth Schedules)
                                    Order 2008

Commencement    : 29 August 2008

13. Act 25 of 2010 — Estate Agents Act 2010
     (Amendments made by section 73 read with item 5 of the Third Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill            : 19/2010

First Reading   : 16 August 2010

Second and Third Readings : 15 September 2010

Commencement    : 22 October 2010 (section 73 read with
                      item 5 of the Third Schedule)

14. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 49 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill            : 11/2010

First Reading   : 26 April 2010

Second Reading  : 18 May 2010

Third Reading   : 19 May 2010

Commencement    : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                      item 49 of the Sixth Schedule)

15. Act 7 of 2011 — Private Lotteries Act 2011
     (Amendments made by section 34(1) read with item 5 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill            : 2/2011

First Reading   : 10 January 2011

Second and Third Readings : 14 February 2011

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
                      iv

Commencement          : 1 April 2011 (section 34(1) read with
                            item 5 of the Schedule)

16. 2012 Revised Edition — Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore Act
                                     (Chapter 138A)

Operation             : 31 October 2012

17. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 69 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2017

First Reading         : 6 November 2017

Second Reading        : 8 January 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 8 January 2018

Third Reading         : 8 January 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 69)

18. 2020 Revised Edition — Inland Revenue Authority of
                                     Singapore Act 1992

Operation             : 31 December 2021

19. Act 1 of 2022 — Gambling Duties Act 2022

Bill                  : 41/2021

First Reading         : 1 November 2021

Second and Third Readings : 10 January 2022

Commencement          : 29 July 2022 (Section 48)

20. Act 33 of 2022 — Income Tax (Amendment) Act 2022

Bill                  : 23/2022

First Reading         : 12 September 2022

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 2022

Commencement          : 26 April 2024 (section 47)

21. Act 11 of 2024 — Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore (Amendment)
                            Act 2024

     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 5/2024

First Reading         : 10 January 2024

Second and Third Readings : 16 February 2024

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
                      v

Commencement          : 1 November 2024

22. Act 36 of 2024 — Multinational Enterprise (Minimum Tax) Act 2024

Bill                  : 33/2024

First Reading         : 9 September 2024

Second and Third Readings : 15 October 2024

Commencement          : 20 March 2025

23. G.N. No. S 589/2026 — Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore Act 1992
                                   (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2026

Date of commencement  : 11 September 2026

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
         COMPARATIVE TABLE

INLAND REVENUE AUTHORITY OF
         SINGAPORE ACT 1992

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2012 Ed.
—                          8—(3) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 11/9/2026
