THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                  ESTATE AGENTS ACT 2010

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                                                                  2020 Ed.

         Estate Agents Act 2010

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Scope of application
     1.  Interpretation
     2.  Excluded activities and persons
     3.  Exemptions
     4.
     5.

                                        PART 2

                     COUNCIL FOR ESTATE AGENCIES

 6. Establishment and incorporation of Council for Estate Agencies
 7. Common seal
 8. Constitution of Council
 9. Functions and duties of Council
10. Powers of Council
11. Directions by Minister
12. Appointment of committees and delegation
13. Executive Director, officers and employees, etc.
14. Preservation of secrecy
15. Protection from liability
16. [Repealed]
17. Financial year
18. Minister’s approval of estimates
19. Moneys recovered or collected by Council
20. Grants
21. Power to borrow
22. Issue of shares, etc.
23. Bank accounts
24. Application of moneys
25. Investment power
26. [Repealed]

         1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.           Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2

Section
   27. [Repealed]

                   PART 3

          LICENSING OF ESTATE AGENTS AND
           REGISTRATION OF SALESPERSONS

28.       Estate agents to be licensed
29.       Salespersons to be registered
30.       Eligibility of individuals to hold estate agent’s licence
31.       Eligibility of other persons to hold estate agent’s licence
32.       Eligibility to be registered salesperson
32A.      Additional grounds for refusal of licence or registration, etc.
33.       Applications for estate agent’s licence
34.       Applications for registration of salespersons
35.       Duration of licence and registration
35A.      Continuation of licence or registration, etc.
36.       Register and search of register

                   PART 4

                   DUTIES AND LIABILITY

37.       Registered address
38.       Appointment and duties of key executive officer
39.       Appointment of salespersons
40.       Salesperson to act for one estate agent at any one time
41.       Salesperson to operate under written agreement with estate agent
42.       Codes of practice, ethics and conduct
43.       Notice of certain events
43A.      Keeping and submission of reports and documents relating to
          transaction record of licensed estate agents
44.       Estate agency agreement required as regards certain proposals
          and undertakings

                                           PART 4A

PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING, PROLIFERATION FINANCING
                            AND TERRORISM FINANCING

   44A. Application of this Part
   44B. Customer due diligence measures
   44BA. Counterparty due diligence measures
   44C. Keeping of records

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
3  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

Section
   44D. Disclosure of suspicious transactions
   44E. Contravention of this Part

                                           PART 5

                           INSPECTION, ENFORCEMENT,
                            DISCIPLINE AND OFFENCES

   44F. Interpretation of this Part
   45. Appointment of inspectors
   46. Powers to inspect and require persons to provide documents and

            information, etc.
   47. Additional powers to investigate offences
   48. [Repealed]
   49. Complaints
   50. Investigations
   51. Disciplinary Panel and Disciplinary Committee
   52. Disciplinary action, etc.
   53. Powers and procedures of Disciplinary Committee

                                           PART 6

                       SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF
                           LICENCE AND REGISTRATION

   54. Suspension or revocation of estate agent’s licence
   55. Suspension or revocation of registration
   56. Effect of revocation and suspension

                                           PART 7

                                          APPEALS

   57. Constitution of Appeals Board
   58. Duty, powers and procedures of Appeals Board
   59. Appeals to Appeals Board
   60. Representation before Appeals Board
   61. Disclosure of conflict of interests by members of Appeals Board
   62. Rules relating to appeals
   63. Members of Appeals Board deemed to be public servants and

            protection from personal liability

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                        4

          PART 8

          MISCELLANEOUS

Section   General offences and penalties
   64.    Power of Council to issue requisition for particulars or
   65.    information
          Power of Council in relation to dispute resolution schemes
   66.    Jurisdiction of court
   67.    Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
   68.    Composition of offences
   69.    Service of documents
   70.    Amendment of Schedule
   71.    Regulations
   72.    Amendment of references in written law or other documents to
   73.    estate agents
          The Schedule — Constitution and proceedings of Council

An Act to establish an enhanced framework for the regulation of real
  estate agents and their salespersons and to form a Council for Estate
  Agencies.

                 [22 October 2010: Except sections 29, 39, 41 and 44;
                            1 January 2011: Sections 29, 39, 41 and 44]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Estate Agents Act 2010.

Scope of application
 2. This Act applies to estate agency work in respect of property

situated in Singapore and outside Singapore.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
5               Estate Agents Act 2010                      2020 Ed.

Interpretation

   3.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

   “advertisement” includes every form of advertisement, whether
      to the public or not, and whether —

   (a) orally or in writing;

   (b) in printed or electronic form;

   (c) in a newspaper or other publication;

   (d) by television or radio;

   (e) by the display of posters, notices, signs, labels,
       showcards or goods;

   (f) by the distribution of notices, circulars, brochures,
       pamphlets, catalogues, price lists or any other
       material;

   (g) by the exhibition of pictures, models or films; or

   (h) in any other form or manner whatsoever,

   and any reference to the issue or publication of
   advertisements is to be construed accordingly;

   “Appeals Board” means the Appeals Board constituted under
      section 57;

   “body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership;

   “building” has the meaning given by the Building Control
      Act 1989;

   “business name”, in relation to an estate agent, means the name
      under which the estate agent is authorised to carry on estate
      agency work;

   “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Disciplinary
      Committee or Appeals Board (as the case may be), and any
      person acting as such Chairperson;

   “client” means any person who, whether on the person’s own
      behalf or on behalf of another person, retains or otherwise

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   6

          uses the services of, or otherwise engages or employs, an
          estate agent, whether directly or through a salesperson;

“committee”, in relation to the Council, includes the
   Disciplinary Panel and any Disciplinary Committee;

“committee member” means a member of any committee
   formed by the Council under this Act;

“company” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“Council” means the Council for Estate Agencies established
   under section 6;

“counterparty”, in relation to an acquisition or a disposition of a
   property for which a licensed estate agent or registered
   salesperson is doing estate agency work for a client, means —

          (a) where the client is a purchaser of the property — a
               vendor of the property; or

          (b) where the client is a vendor of the property — a
               purchaser of the property;

                                                                       [Act 15 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

“deputy president” means the deputy president of the Council
   and any person acting as the deputy president;

“development” means a development involving the construction
   of a new building;

“director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“Disciplinary Committee” means a committee appointed under
   section 51(4);

“Disciplinary Panel” means the panel appointed under
   section 51(1);

“disposition” means an act by a person whereby an interest the
   person has in or over a property is affected, and “acquisition”,
   in relation to a property, is to be construed accordingly;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
7  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

   “estate agency agreement” means one or more written
      documents embodying the terms agreed for the time being
      between an estate agent and the estate agent’s client, being
      terms on and subject to which estate agency work is to be
      done by the estate agent for the client;

   “estate agency work”, subject to subsection (3), means any work
      done in the course of business for a client or any work done
      for or in expectation of any fee (whether or not in the course
      of business) for a client, being work done —

   (a) in relation to the introduction to the client of a third
        person who wishes to acquire or dispose of a
        property, or to the negotiation for the acquisition or
        disposition of a property by the client; or

   (b) after the introduction to the client of a third person
        who wishes to acquire or dispose of a property or the
        negotiation for the acquisition or disposition of a
        property by the client, in relation to the acquisition or
        disposition (as the case may be) of the property by the
        client;

   “estate agent”, subject to subsection (3), means a person who
      does estate agency work, whether or not the person carries on
      that or any other business;

   “estate agent’s licence” means a licence granted under
      section 33 and designated as being an estate agent’s licence;

   “Executive Director” means the chief executive of the Council
      called the Executive Director, and includes any individual
      acting in that capacity;

   “inspector” means any person appointed under section 45;

   “key executive officer” means the person who is required to be
      appointed by an estate agent under section 38;

   “lease” includes a sublease, tenancy and subtenancy and an
      agreement for a lease where a party to the agreement is
      entitled to have a lease granted;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   8

“licence” means an estate agent’s licence, and includes a
   provisional licence, and “licensee” is to be construed
   accordingly;

“licensed estate agent” means a person who is the holder of an
   estate agent’s licence;

“moneylender’s licence” means a moneylender’s licence under
   the Moneylenders Act 2008;

“partner” includes a partner of a limited liability partnership, a
   general partner of a limited partnership and a limited partner
   of a limited partnership;

“partnership” includes a limited liability partnership registered
   under the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005 and a
   limited partnership registered under the Limited Partnerships
   Act 2008;

“person who is responsible for the management”, in relation to a
   person or business, includes every director, manager, partner,
   officer, individual, secretary, agent or employee at any time
   charged either solely or to a substantial extent with the
   management of the person or business;

“prescribed” means prescribed by the Council by regulations
   made under this Act;

“president” means the president of the Council and includes any
   person acting as the president;

“proliferation financing” means the financing of the
   proliferation of weapons of mass destruction;

                                                                       [Act 15 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

“property” means an interest in land, whether situated in
   Singapore or elsewhere, that is recognised as such by law,
   and includes any building or part of a building (whether
   completed, being constructed or to be constructed), and a
   future interest in land;

“public accountant” has the meaning given by the Accountants
   Act 2004;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
9  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

   “purchaser” means any person to whom a property is or is to be
      disposed of, and includes a prospective tenant;

   “register” means the register established and maintained by the
      Council under section 36;

   “registered salesperson” means a person who is registered as a
      salesperson under section 34;

   “registration” means registration as a salesperson under
      section 34;

   “salesperson” means an individual who does estate agency
      work —

   (a) in the course of his or her employment or engagement
        (whether under a contract of service or contract for
        service) by an estate agent; or

   (b) as a director or limited liability partner of an estate
        agent;

   “solicitor” means an advocate and solicitor of the Supreme
      Court of Singapore with a practising certificate in force;

   “tenant” includes a subtenant;

   “vendor” means any person by whom a property is or is to be
      disposed of, and includes a prospective landlord;

      “Vice-Chairperson” means a Vice‑Chairperson of the Appeals
         Board and any person acting as a Vice‑Chairperson.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a person is not a “fit and proper
person” if the Council, after considering any relevant facts or matters,
is of the view that he or she is not such a person, and unless the
Council otherwise determines —

   (a) an individual is not a “fit and proper person” if he or she —

   (i) has been convicted of an offence involving
       dishonesty or fraud;

   (ii) has had a judgment entered against him or her in civil
        proceedings that involve a finding of fraud,

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   10

          dishonesty or breach of fiduciary duties on his or her
          part;

          (iia) has been convicted of an offence involving money
                laundering, proliferation financing or terrorism
                financing (whether in Singapore or elsewhere);

                                                                       [Act 15 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

          (iii) has been convicted of any offence under this Act; or

          (iv) is an undischarged bankrupt or has made a
               composition or arrangement with his or her
               creditors; and

(b) a person (other than an individual) is not a “fit and proper
     person” if —

          (i) the person has been convicted of an offence
              involving dishonesty or fraud;

          (ii) the person has had a judgment entered against it in
               civil proceedings that involve a finding of fraud,
               dishonesty or breach of fiduciary duties on its part;

          (iia) the person has been convicted of an offence
                involving money laundering, proliferation
                financing or terrorism financing (whether in
                Singapore or elsewhere);

                                                                       [Act 15 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

          (iii) the person has been convicted of any offence under
                this Act;

          (iv) any director or partner of the person or any other
               person who is responsible for the management of the
               person is not a fit and proper person; or

          (v) the person is in liquidation or is the subject of a
               winding up order, or there is a receiver appointed in
               relation to it, or it has entered into a composition or
               scheme of arrangement with its creditors.

(3) To avoid doubt, it is declared that —

(a) references in this Act to estate agency work are not to be
     construed as including references to work which relates

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
11  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

    solely to a survey, to a valuation or to a disposition by way
    of auction or tender; and

    (b) references in this Act to an estate agent without
         qualification are not to be construed as including
         references to an auctioneer whose function is solely to
         conduct an auction.

Excluded activities and persons

 4.—(1) This Act does not apply to anything done —

       (a) by an executor, administrator, trustee, liquidator, receiver,
            trustee or assignee of a bankrupt for the purposes of or in
            connection with the performance of his, her or its functions
            as such;

       (b) by a solicitor, in the course of practising his or her
            profession, or by any person employed by the solicitor and
            acting in furtherance of that course, in introducing to the
            client, third persons who wish to acquire or dispose of a
            property (whether for remuneration or otherwise), if the
            solicitor and any person employed by the solicitor do not
            perform any other work that falls within the definition
            of “estate agency work” in section 3;

       (c) by an appraiser within the meaning of the Appraisers
            Act 1906 when valuing or appraising property;

       (d) by any person in connection with a mortgage or other
            charge on property, whether done as regards its creation,
            transfer, assignment or otherwise;

       (e) in connection with the publication of advertisements or the
            dissemination of information by any person who does no
            other work that falls within the definition of “estate agency
            work” in section 3;

        (f) by any person as the vendor or purchaser, or where there is
            more than one vendor or purchaser, a vendor or purchaser
            of a property in connection with —

               (i) where the person is the vendor or a vendor of the
                   property — the disposition of the property; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   12

          (ii) where the person is the purchaser or a purchaser of
               the property — the acquisition of the property;

(g) by any person in connection with a property pursuant to
     instructions received by the person in the course of his or
     her employment, insofar as such thing would have been
     within the scope of paragraph (f) if done by his or her
     employer;

(h) by any person in relation to a present, prospective or
     former employee of the person or of any person by whom
     he or she also is employed if the thing is done by reason of
     the employment (whether past, present or future); and

          (i) by the Government or by any body that is established or
              constituted by or under a public Act for a public function
              when acting on behalf of the Government or exercising a
              public function.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) —

(a) a reference to a property within the meaning of this section
     includes a reference to a property which comprises a
     specified number of undivided shares in any area of land
     situated in Singapore together with a right to the exclusive
     possession of a unit or other interest in a development of
     that area of land where —

          (i) the development of that area of land has been or is to
              be undertaken by the vendor or, where there is more
              than one vendor, the vendors of the property as
              owner of that area of land (whether with other
              companies or not), or by other company or
              companies for the vendor or the vendors (as the
              case may be) pursuant to an agreement, however
              described, entered into by the vendor or the vendors,
              as the case may be (whether with other companies or
              not) for the development of that area of land; and

          (ii) no assignment or other instrument, other than that in
               favour of the vendor or, where there is more than
               one vendor, the vendors of the property, has been

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
13  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

    executed by way of completion of the sale and
    purchase of the property as such; and

    (b) a reference to a development agreement within the
         meaning of this subsection, in relation to a property, is a
         reference to an agreement, however described, entered into
         for the development of the area of land mentioned in
         paragraph (a) in relation to that property.

Exemptions

 5.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any
person or class or description of persons from all or any of the
provisions of this Act, subject to any conditions as may be stated in
the order.

 (2) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exclude any activity
or class or description of activities from all or any of the provisions of
this Act relating to estate agency work.

 (3) The Council may exempt any person from any prescribed
requirements for a licence or registration, subject to any conditions as
it may consider appropriate.

                                    PART 2

                 COUNCIL FOR ESTATE AGENCIES

Establishment and incorporation of Council for Estate
Agencies

 6. A body called the Council for Estate Agencies is established,
which is a body corporate with perpetual succession and is by that
name capable of —

       (a) suing and being sued;

       (b) acquiring, owning, holding and developing or disposing of
            property, both movable and immovable; and

       (c) doing and suffering any other acts or things that bodies
            corporate may lawfully do and suffer.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.     Estate Agents Act 2010                                14

Common seal

 7.—(1) The Council must have a common seal and such seal may
be broken, changed, altered or made anew as the Council thinks fit.

 (2) All deeds and other documents requiring the seal of the Council
must be sealed with the common seal of the Council.

 (3) Every instrument to which the common seal is affixed must be
signed by any 2 members generally or specially authorised by the
Council for the purpose, or by one member and the Executive
Director.

 (4) The Council may, by resolution or otherwise in writing, appoint
any officer of the Council or any other agent either generally or in any
particular case to execute or sign on behalf of the Council any
agreement or other instrument not under seal in relation to any matter
within the powers of the Council.

 (5) All courts, judges and persons acting judicially are to take
judicial notice of the common seal of the Council affixed to any
document and presume that it was duly affixed.

Constitution of Council

 8.—(1) The Council consists of the following members:

       (a) a chairperson called the president;

       (b) not less than 5 and not more than 15 such other members as
            the Minister may determine.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Schedule has effect with respect to the Council, its
members and its proceedings.

Functions and duties of Council

 9.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the functions and
duties of the Council are as follows:

       (a) to administer the licensing and registration regimes under
            this Act;

       (b) to regulate and control the practice of estate agents and
            salespersons;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
15  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

    (c) to promote integrity and competence among estate agents
        and salespersons and to maintain or enhance their status;

    (d) to administer examinations and a professional
         development framework for the purposes of licensing
         and registration under this Act;

    (da) to accredit activities, courses and programmes for
          continuing professional education for or in respect of
          estate agents and salespersons;

    (e) to develop codes of practice, ethics and conduct for estate
        agents and salespersons;

    (f) to conduct investigations and disciplinary proceedings in
        relation to offences and unsatisfactory conduct or
        misconduct in relation to estate agency work;

    (g) to develop measures to equip consumers with the
         necessary knowledge to conduct their property
         transactions with prudence and diligence;

       (h) to perform such other functions and discharge such other
            duties as may be conferred on the Council by any written
            law.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (2) In addition to the functions and duties imposed under
subsection (1), the Council may undertake such other functions and
duties (not incompatible with those specified in that subsection) as
the Minister may, by order in the Gazette, assign to the Council and in
so doing —

    (a) the Council is deemed to be fulfilling the purposes of this
         Act; and

    (b) the provisions of this Act apply to the Council in respect of
         such functions and duties.

 (3) Nothing in this section is to be construed as imposing on the
Council, directly or indirectly, any form of duty or liability
enforceable by proceedings before any court to which it would not
otherwise be subject.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.           Estate Agents Act 2010                          16

Powers of Council

 10.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Council has the
power to do anything for the purpose of performing its functions and
discharging its duties under this Act or any other written law, or
which is incidental or conducive to the performance and discharge of
those functions and duties.

(2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Council may —

(a) enter into such contracts as may be necessary or expedient
     for the purpose of discharging the functions and duties of
     the Council;

(b) acquire or dispose of, in accordance with the provisions of
     this Act, any property, whether movable or immovable,
     which the Council thinks necessary or expedient for the
     purpose of carrying out its functions or duties;

          (c) charge fees for licensing and registration and for any
              services rendered by the Council or for the use of any
              facilities of the Council;

(d) receive grants or contributions from any source, or raise
     funds by all lawful means and apply such funds for any of
     the functions and duties of the Council;

          (e) provide recreational facilities and promote recreational
              activities for, and activities conducive to, the welfare of
              officers and employees of the Council and members of
              their families;

          (f) lease, let or otherwise utilise any property, movable or
              immovable, vested in or acquired by the Council on such
              terms and conditions as the Council thinks fit; and

(g) do anything incidental to any of its functions, duties or
     powers.

 (3) This section is not to be construed as limiting any power of the
Council conferred by or under any other written law.

 (4) The Council must provide the Minister information with respect
to its property and activities in such manner and at such times as the
Minister may require.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
17  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

Directions by Minister

 11. The Minister may give to the Council any direction under
section 5 of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Appointment of committees and delegation

 12.—(1) The Council may appoint from among its own members or
from other persons any number of committees that it thinks fit for
purposes which, in the opinion of the Council, would be more
expediently carried out or managed by means of those committees.

 (2) Where a committee is established, the Council must appoint a
person to be the chairperson of that committee.

 (3) The Council may alter or discharge any committee appointed
under subsection (1), and define or vary the terms of reference of the
committee.

 (4) Subject to the provisions of this Act and to the control of the
Council, each committee appointed under subsection (1) may
regulate its procedure in such manner as the committee thinks fit.

 (5) The Council may, subject to any conditions or restrictions that it
thinks fit, delegate —

       (a) to any of its members, including the president;

       (b) to its Executive Director, or any of its officers or
            employees; or

       (c) to any committee appointed under subsection (1),

any of its functions, duties or powers under this Act or any other
written law.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (6) Any function, duty or power delegated under subsection (5) to
any committee or person may be performed or exercised by the
committee or person in the name of, and on behalf of, the Council.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   18

Executive Director, officers and employees, etc.

 13.—(1) There must be an Executive Director of the Council,
whose appointment, removal, discipline and promotion must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Council may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint an individual to act temporarily as the Executive
Director during any period, or during all periods, when the Executive
Director —

(a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (3) The Council may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint and employ, on such terms and conditions as it may
determine, such other officers, employees, consultants and agents as
may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Preservation of secrecy

 14.—(1) Except for the purpose of the performance of his or her
functions or the discharge of his or her duties or when lawfully
required to do so by any court or where required or allowed by the
provisions of any written law, a person who is or has been —

       (a) a member, an officer, an employee, a consultant or an agent
            of the Council;

       (b) a committee member;

       (c) a member of the Disciplinary Panel; or

       (d) a member of the Appeals Board,

must not disclose any information relating to the affairs of the
Council or any other person which has been obtained by him or her in
the performance of his or her functions or the discharge of his or her
duties under this Act.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
19  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

Protection from liability

 15.—(1) No liability lies personally against any member, officer,
employee or committee member of the Council or other person acting
under the direction of the Council for anything which is done or
omitted to be done in good faith and with reasonable care in the
execution or purported execution of this Act.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (2) Where the Council provides a service to the public whereby
information is supplied to the public pursuant to any written law,
neither the Council nor any of its members, officers, employees or
committee members involved in the supply of such information shall
be liable for any loss or damage suffered by any member of the public
by reason of any error or omission of whatever nature appearing
therein or however caused if made in good faith, with reasonable care
and in the ordinary course of the discharge of the duties of the Council
or such member, officer, employee or committee member.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 16. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

Financial year

 17. The financial year of the Council begins on 1 April of each year
and end on 31 March of the succeeding year.

Minister’s approval of estimates

 18.—(1) A copy of all annual estimates of revenue and expenditure
and supplementary estimates must, upon their adoption by the
Council, be sent without delay to the Minister.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Minister may approve or disallow any item or portion of
any item shown in the annual estimates or supplementary estimates.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   20

 (3) The Minister must return the annual estimates or supplementary
estimates as amended under subsection (2) to the Council, and the
Council is bound by the Minister’s decision.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (4) However, the Council may transfer all or any part of moneys
assigned to one item of expenditure to any item under the same head
of expenditure in any estimates approved by the Minister.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Moneys recovered or collected by Council

 19.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), all moneys recovered by the
Council, and fees and charges collected under this Act must be paid
into and form part of the moneys of the Council.

 (2) All composition sums and financial penalties collected under
this Act must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

Grants

 20. For the purpose of enabling the Council to perform its functions
and discharge its duties under this Act or any other written law, the
Minister may make grants to the Council of such sums of money as
the Minister may determine, out of moneys to be provided by
Parliament.

Power to borrow

 21.—(1) For the performance of its functions or discharge of its
duties under this Act or any other written law, the Council may raise
loans from the Government or, with the approval of the Minister, raise
loans within or outside Singapore from such source as the Minister
may direct by —

       (a) mortgage, overdraft or other means, with or without
            security;

       (b) charge, whether legal or equitable, on any property vested
            in the Council or on any other revenue receivable by the
            Council under this Act or any other written law; or

       (c) the creation and issue of debentures, bonds or any other
            instrument as the Minister may approve.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
21  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

 (2) For the purposes of this section, the power to raise loans
includes the power to make any financial agreement whereby credit
facilities are granted to the Council for the purchase of goods,
materials or things.

Issue of shares, etc.

 22. As a consequence of —

       (a) the vesting of any property, rights or liabilities of the
            Government in the Council under this Act; or

       (b) any capital injection or other investment by the
            Government in the Council in accordance with any
            written law,

the Council must issue such shares or other securities to the Minister
for Finance as that Minister may direct.

Bank accounts

 23.—(1) The Council must open and maintain one or more
accounts with any bank or banks that the Council thinks fit.

 (2) Every such account must be operated by such person authorised
to do so by the Council.

Application of moneys

 24. The moneys of the Council must be applied only in payment or
discharge of the expenses, obligations and liabilities of the Council
and in making any payment that the Council is authorised or required
to make.

Investment power

 25. The Council may invest its moneys in accordance with the
standard investment power of statutory bodies as defined in
section 33A of the Interpretation Act 1965.

 26. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

 27. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   22

                              PART 3

          LICENSING OF ESTATE AGENTS AND
           REGISTRATION OF SALESPERSONS

Estate agents to be licensed

28.—(1) Subject to this Act, a person must not —

(a) exercise or carry on or advertise, notify or state that he or
     she exercises or carries on, or is willing to exercise or carry
     on, the business of doing estate agency work as an estate
     agent;

(b) act as an estate agent; or

          (c) in any way hold himself or herself out to the public as
              being ready to undertake, whether or not for payment or
              other remuneration (whether monetary or otherwise),
              estate agency work as an estate agent,

unless he or she is a licensed estate agent.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$75,000, or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both, and in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $7,500 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (3) No fee, commission or reward in relation to anything done by a
person in respect of an offence under this section is recoverable in any
action, suit or matter by any person.

Salespersons to be registered

 29.—(1) Subject to this Act —

       (a) a person must not be or act as a salesperson for any
            licensed estate agent, nor hold himself or herself out to the
            public as being a salesperson unless he or she is a
            registered salesperson; and

       (b) a person must not accept employment or an appointment as
            a salesperson from, nor act as a salesperson for, any other

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
23  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

    person who is required by this Act to hold, but is not the
    holder of, an estate agent’s licence.

(2) Subsection (1) is not to be construed as —

    (a) requiring any registered salesperson, by reason only of the
         fact that he or she does estate agency work solely as a
         salesperson, to hold an estate agent’s licence; or

    (b) requiring any licensed estate agent to be registered as a
         salesperson.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$25,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (4) No fee, commission or reward in relation to anything done by a
person in respect of an offence under this section is recoverable in any
action, suit or matter by any person.

Eligibility of individuals to hold estate agent’s licence

 30. Subject to the provisions of this Act, an individual is not eligible
to be granted or to hold or continue to hold an estate agent’s licence
unless —

       (a) the individual has attained 21 years of age or such other age
            which is for the time being prescribed for the purposes of
            this section;

       (b) the individual satisfies the Council that —

               (i) the individual has such qualifications, passed such
                   courses of instruction or examinations and has such
                   practical experience as may be prescribed; or

              (ii) the individual is otherwise qualified by having such
                   training or practical experience as the Council may
                   approve;

       (c) the individual is not a salesperson of any other licensed
            estate agent;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   24

(d) the individual does not hold and is not an employee, a
     director or a partner of a person who holds a moneylender’s
     licence;

          (e) the individual complies with such other requirements as
              are prescribed for the time being which apply to him or her;
              and

          (f) the Council otherwise considers the individual a fit and
              proper person to hold an estate agent’s licence.

Eligibility of other persons to hold estate agent’s licence

 31. Subject to the provisions of this Act, no person (other than an
individual) is eligible to be granted or to hold or continue to hold an
estate agent’s licence unless —

       (a) the person has a key executive officer who satisfies the
            requirements of this Act;

       (b) the key executive officer and each of the person’s directors
            or partners for the time being is a fit and proper person;

       (c) the person does not hold a moneylender’s licence;

       (d) none of the person’s directors or partners for the time being
            holds a moneylender’s licence;

       (e) none of the person’s directors or partners for the time being
            is an employee, a director or a partner of a person who
            holds a moneylender’s licence;

        (f) the Council is satisfied that the person complies with such
            other prescribed requirements which apply to the person;
            and

       (g) the Council otherwise considers the person to be a fit and
            proper person to hold an estate agent’s licence.

Eligibility to be registered salesperson

 32.—(1) Only a natural person may be registered as a salesperson.

 (2) An individual is not eligible to be or to remain registered as a
salesperson unless —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
25  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

    (a) the individual has attained 21 years of age or such other age
         which is for the time being prescribed for the purposes of
         this subsection;

    (b) the individual satisfies the Council that he or she —

    (i) is or will be employed by a licensed estate agent as a
        salesperson and he or she does not hold a licence as
        any other estate agent;

    (ii) has the prescribed educational qualifications or
         experience;

    (iii) does not hold and is not an employee, a director or a
          partner of a person who holds a moneylender’s
          licence; and

    (iv) complies with such other prescribed requirements
         including continuing education which apply to him
         or her; and

    (c) the Council otherwise considers the individual a fit and
        proper person to be registered as a salesperson.

Additional grounds for refusal of licence or registration, etc.

 32A.—(1) In addition to sections 30 and 31, the Council —

       (a) may refuse to grant an application for or to renew an estate
            agent’s licence made under section 33 if the estate agent
            had been ordered to pay a financial penalty under
            section 49(6)(a)(iii) or (b)(i), 52(3) or 66(3)(a), and the
            financial penalty has not been paid at the time of the
            application; and

                                                                               [Act 15 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

       (b) may refuse to grant an application to renew an estate
            agent’s licence made under section 33 if —

               (i) in the case of an estate agent that is an individual —
                   the estate agent has not satisfied the CPE
                   requirements;

              (ii) in the case of an estate agent that is a partnership —
                   the key executive officer of the estate agent, or any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   26

          partner of the estate agent performing or intending to
          perform estate agency work, has not satisfied the
          CPE requirements; or

            (iii) in the case of an estate agent that is a body corporate
                  (other than a limited liability partnership) — the key
                  executive officer of the estate agent, or any director
                  of the estate agent performing or intending to
                  perform estate agency work, has not satisfied the
                  CPE requirements.

                                                                                                         [24/2020]

(2) In addition to section 32, the Council —

       (a) may refuse to register or renew the registration of an
            individual as a salesperson if the individual had been
            ordered to pay a financial penalty under
            section 49(6)(a)(iii) or (b)(i), 52(3) or 66(3)(a), and the
            financial penalty has not been paid at the time of the
            application for registration or renewal; and

                                                                               [Act 15 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

       (b) may refuse to renew the registration of an individual as a
            salesperson if the individual has not satisfied the CPE
            requirements.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (3) In this section, “CPE requirements” means the prescribed
requirements relating to continuing professional education for and in
respect of estate agents (including persons who are responsible for the
management of estate agents) and salespersons, including the
completion of accredited activities, courses and programmes.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

Applications for estate agent’s licence

 33.—(1) An application for or to renew an estate agent’s licence
must be made to the Council in such form and manner and with such
information or evidence as the Council may require, and must be
accompanied by the prescribed fee.

 (2) The Council must consider every application for or to renew a
licence that is made in accordance with subsection (1), and may grant

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
27  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

or renew the licence, with or without conditions, or refuse to grant or
renew the licence.

(3) Any licence granted under this Act is not transferable.

 (4) The Council may require an applicant to provide it with such
additional information or documents as it considers necessary in
relation to the application before considering the application.

 (5) The Council may, before granting or renewing any licence,
require the applicant to furnish such security as may be prescribed.

 (6) Any person who, in any application for the grant or renewal of a
licence for the person or any other person, submits false documents or
makes a statement which is false or misleading in any material
particular shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

Applications for registration of salespersons

 34.—(1) An application for registration or the renewal of
registration as a salesperson must be made to the Council in such
form and manner and with such information or evidence as the
Council may require, and must be accompanied by the prescribed fee.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must be made through and
with the support of the licensed estate agent that the salesperson is to
act for, and must be accompanied by a certification by the licensed
estate agent that the salesperson meets such requirements for
registration under this Act as may be specified in the forms
provided under subsection (1).

 (3) The Council may require the applicant or the licensed estate
agent to provide it with such additional information or documents as
it considers necessary in relation to the application before considering
the application.

 (4) An application is deemed withdrawn with effect from the date
on which the person who supported the application withdraws his or
her support in writing.

 (5) The Council must consider every application for registration or
renewal of registration that is made in accordance with the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   28

requirements of this section, and may register or renew registration
with or without conditions, or refuse to register or renew registration.

 (6) Any registration under this Act is not transferable and is subject
to the applicant continuing to be a salesperson for the licensed estate
agent that he or she is registered through.

 (7) Any person who, in any application for registration or renewal
of registration for the person or any other person, submits false
documents or makes a statement which is false or misleading in any
material particular shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

Duration of licence and registration

 35. Subject to the provisions of this Act —

       (a) an estate agent’s licence is for such period not exceeding
            3 years as the Council may decide; and

       (b) the registration of a salesperson is for such period not
            exceeding 3 years as the Council may decide.

Continuation of licence or registration, etc.

 35A.—(1) If disciplinary proceedings against a licensed estate
agent (A) are pending immediately before the date on which A’s
licence lapses, A is treated as a licensed estate agent from and
including the date on which the licence lapses until the date the
disciplinary proceedings are concluded, but only for the purposes of
Part 5.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (2) If disciplinary proceedings against a registered salesperson (B)
are pending immediately before the date on which B’s registration
lapses, B is treated as a registered salesperson from and including the
date on which the registration lapses until the date the disciplinary
proceedings are concluded, but only for the purposes of Part 5.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
29  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

 (3) This section applies to any licensed estate agent or registered
salesperson against whom disciplinary proceedings are pending,
whether before, on or after 30 July 2021.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (4) In this section —

    (a) disciplinary proceedings are pending from and including
         the time that the disciplinary proceedings commence until
         the time that the disciplinary proceedings are concluded;

    (b) disciplinary proceedings commence when —

    (i) the Council receives a complaint under
        section 49(1); or

    (ii) the Council receives any information under
         section 49(2); and

    (c) disciplinary proceedings are concluded when —

    (i) if the Council decides not to refer the matter to a
        Disciplinary Committee under section 49(11) after
        disciplinary proceedings have commenced —

    (A) the Council decides not to exercise any power
         under section 49(6);

    (B) the Council exercises any power under
         section 49(6) and no appeal is lodged against
         the decision under section 59(1) within the
         time for lodging the appeal under
         section 59(2); or

    (C) the Council exercises any power under
         section 49(6), an appeal is lodged against the
         decision under section 59(1) and —

    (CA) the appeal is withdrawn;

    (CB) the Appeals Board confirms, sets aside
           or modifies the Council’s decision
           under section 59(5)(a); or

    (CC) the Council confirms, sets aside or
           modifies its decision upon a review

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   30

          required by the Appeals Board under
          section 59(5)(b); or

          (ii) if the Council refers the matter to a Disciplinary
               Committee under section 49(11) after disciplinary
               proceedings have commenced —

          (A) the Disciplinary Committee determines, under
               section 52(1)(a), that there is no sufficient
               cause for disciplinary action against the person
               under investigation;

          (B) the Disciplinary Committee exercises any
               power under section 52(3), (4), (5) or (6),
               and no appeal is lodged against the decision
               under section 59(1) within the time for lodging
               the appeal under section 59(2); or

          (C) the Disciplinary Committee exercises any
               power under section 52(3), (4), (5) or (6), an
               appeal is lodged against the decision under
               section 59(1) and —

          (CA) the appeal is withdrawn;

          (CB) the Appeals Board confirms, sets aside
                 or modifies the Disciplinary
                 Committee’s decision under
                 section 59(5)(a); or

          (CC) the Disciplinary Committee confirms,
                 sets aside or modifies its decision upon
                 a review required by the Appeals Board
                 under section 59(5)(b).

                                                                             [24/2020]

Register and search of register

 36.—(1) The Council must establish and maintain a register for the
purposes of this Act in such form as the Council may decide.

 (2) The register must contain —

       (a) the following particulars as regards every licence granted
            under this Act:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
31  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

    (i) the name of the person to whom the licence was
        granted;

    (ii) the period or periods for which the licence was
         granted, including the period or periods (if any) for
         which the licence was renewed;

    (iii) if the licence is suspended, the period during which it
          is suspended; and

    (iv) if the licence is revoked, the date of revocation;

    (b) the following particulars as regards every salesperson
         registered under this Act:

    (i) the name of the salesperson;

    (ii) the name of the estate agent that the salesperson acts
         for and is registered through;

    (iii) the period or periods of registration;

    (iv) if the registration is suspended, the period during
         which it is suspended; and

    (v) if the registration is revoked, the date of revocation;
         and

    (c) such other particulars as may be prescribed.

 (3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Council may, in such
form or manner and for such time as it considers appropriate, include
in the register information relating to all or any of the following:

    (a) the estate agents that a salesperson had acted for in the past;

    (aa) the prescribed particulars of any property transaction
          completed by any client of any licensed estate agent,
          within the meaning of section 43A(5);

    (b) the lapsing, revocation or suspension of any licence or
         registration under this Act;

    (ba) the censure of any person under section 49(6)(a)(iv) or
          (b)(ii) or 66(3)(b);

                                                                           [Act 15 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

     (c) the reprimand of any person under this Act;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   32

(d) the conviction of any person for any offence under this
     Act;

          (e) any action as may have been taken by the Council or a
              Disciplinary Committee against any person under this Act;

        (f) any other information in respect of estate agents and
            salespersons as the Council may consider necessary or
            expedient to publish in the public interest.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (4) The Council may at any time publish such information from the
register maintained under subsection (1) as it considers appropriate.

 (5) The Council must make the register available for public search
or inspection, in such manner and at such reasonable time as the
Council may determine, on payment of the prescribed fee, if any.

 (6) A document signed by the Executive Director and certified by
him or her as being a true copy of or an extract from any part of the
register is, until the contrary is proved, evidence of the particulars
entered in the part of the register to which the document so signed and
certified relates.

 (7) It is not necessary in legal proceedings either to prove a
signature on a document mentioned in subsection (6) or to prove that
such a signature is that of the person holding the office of Executive
Director on the date of the document.

 (8) Where a person applies to the Council for a copy of or an extract
from any part of the register to be signed and certified as described in
subsection (6), the Council must provide the person with the copy or
extract applied for on payment of the prescribed fee, if any.

                                    PART 4

                        DUTIES AND LIABILITY

Registered address

 37.—(1) Subject to subsection (5), every licensee must have an
address in Singapore (called in this section the registered address) to
which all communications and all notices under this Act may be sent.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
33  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

 (2) The registered address must be stated in every application for
the grant or renewal of a licence.

 (3) Where an address ceases to be the registered address of a
licensee, the licensee must within a period of 14 days starting on the
date of the cessation, notify the Council in writing of another address
to which all communications and notices may be sent.

 (4) Where the Council receives a notification under subsection (3),
it must cause the address mentioned in the notification to be entered
appropriately in the register and thereupon that address is the
registered address of the licensee by whom or on whose behalf the
notification was sent to the Council.

 (5) In the case of a company within the meaning of the Companies
Act 1967, the registered office for the time being of the company is
the registered address of the company for the purposes of
subsection (1).

 (6) A licensee who fails to comply with subsection (3) shall be
guilty of an offence.

Appointment and duties of key executive officer

 38.—(1) An estate agent must appoint a key executive officer and
must ensure that the key executive officer is responsible for the
proper administration and overall management of the business of the
estate agent, and the supervision of its salespersons.

 (2) No person may be appointed under subsection (1) or continue to
be appointed as such unless he or she —

       (a) is not a salesperson or key executive officer of any other
            licensed estate agent and he or she does not hold a licence
            as any other estate agent; and

       (b) does not hold and is not an employee, a director or a partner
            of a person who holds a moneylender’s licence.

 (3) A key executive officer must possess such qualifications and
satisfy such requirements as may be prescribed.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   34

 (4) A key executive officer must carry out the duties mentioned in
subsection (1) and must be contactable by the Council and
salespersons of the estate agent at all reasonable times.

 (5) If a vacancy occurs in the post of key executive officer by
reason of the death, resignation or revocation of appointment of the
key executive officer, the estate agent must —

(a) within one week of the key executive officer ceasing to
     carry out his or her duties — notify the Council of that fact;
     and

(b) within one month of the key executive officer ceasing to
     carry out his or her duties — appoint another key executive
     officer in accordance with subsection (1).

Appointment of salespersons

 39.—(1) An estate agent must not appoint, associate with, employ
or continue to employ as a salesperson any person who for the time
being is not a registered salesperson.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$25,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $2,500 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction for each salesperson appointed,
associated or employed in contravention of subsection (1), as the case
may be.

Salesperson to act for one estate agent at any one time

 40.—(1) A salesperson may not be registered to act as a salesperson
for more than one estate agent at any one time.

 (2) A salesperson must not at any one time act as a salesperson for
more than one estate agent.

 (3) Any salesperson who makes any false representation (whether
verbally or in writing or by conduct) to any person to the effect that
the salesperson is employed by or authorised to act as a salesperson

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
35  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

for any specified estate agent shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

Salesperson to operate under written agreement with estate
agent

 41.—(1) A licensed estate agent must not cause or permit a
salesperson to carry out estate agency work for the licensed estate
agent unless an agreement in writing between that estate agent and the
salesperson authorises the salesperson to carry out estate agency
work for that estate agent.

 (2) A salesperson must not perform or hold himself or herself out as
entitled to perform estate agency work for a licensed estate agent
unless an agreement in writing between that estate agent and the
salesperson authorises the salesperson to carry out estate agency
work for that estate agent.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $25,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $2,500 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

Codes of practice, ethics and conduct

 42.—(1) The Council may prescribe or issue and publish one or
more codes of practice, ethics and conduct under whatever name for
estate agents or salespersons or for both estate agents and
salespersons.

 (2) A failure to observe a provision of any code that is prescribed or
issued and published under subsection (1) may render the estate
agent, the salesperson or both the estate agent and salesperson liable
to disciplinary action.

Notice of certain events

 43.—(1) Where a licensee ceases to be engaged in estate agency
work, the licensee must, before the end of a period of 31 days starting
on the date of the cessation, notify the Council in writing thereof.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.     Estate Agents Act 2010                                36

 (2) Where a licensed estate agent ceases to appoint, associate with
or employ a person as a salesperson, the licensed estate agent must,
before the end of a period of 7 days (or such other period prescribed)
notify the Council in a manner prescribed of the cessation.

(3) Where a company is a licensed estate agent and —

(a) a person is appointed as a director of the company; or

(b) a person ceases to be such a director,

the company must, before the end of a period of 7 days (or such other
period prescribed) starting on the date of the appointment or, where
appropriate, the cessation, notify the Council in a manner prescribed
of the appointment or cessation.

(4) Where —

(a) a licensed estate agent —

          (i) becomes a member of a partnership; or

          (ii) ceases to be a member of a partnership; and

(b) the partnership does, or it is proposed that it will do, estate
     agency work,

the licensed estate agent must, before the end of a period of 7 days (or
such other period prescribed) starting on the date of his or her so
becoming or ceasing to be such a member, notify the Council in a
manner prescribed thereof.

 (5) In addition to notification of the matters contained in
subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4), a notice for the purposes of any of
those subsections must contain such additional particulars (if any) as
are prescribed for the time being for the purposes of this section
which must be verified in such manner as may be prescribed.

 (6) A licensee who fails to comply with subsection (1), (2), (3), (4)
or (5) shall be guilty of an offence.

Keeping and submission of reports and documents relating to
transaction record of licensed estate agents

 43A.—(1) The Council may, by written notice, require a licensed
estate agent or a registered salesperson of a licensed estate agent to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
37                Estate Agents Act 2010                     2020 Ed.

keep and submit to the Council a report containing the prescribed
particulars of each property transaction completed by each client of
the licensed estate agent and any supporting document.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (2) The report or document mentioned in subsection (1) must be
submitted in the form and manner, and at the frequency and within the
period, specified by the Council.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (3) Any licensed estate agent or registered salesperson who,
without reasonable excuse, fails to submit a report or document
required under subsection (1) in accordance with the specifications
under subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (4) Any licensed estate agent or registered salesperson who, in
compliance or purported compliance with subsection (1), submits to
the Council a report or document containing any information which
the licensed estate agent or registered salesperson (as the case may
be) knows is false or misleading shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (5) For the purposes of this section, a property transaction is
completed by a client of a licensed estate agent when, as a result of
estate agency work done for the client (whether by the licensed estate
agent or by a registered salesperson of the licensed estate agent), the
client enters into any agreement for the acquisition or disposition of
property, including —

    (a) an option to purchase;

    (b) a sale and purchase agreement;

    (c) a tenancy agreement; and

    (d) a lease.

                                                             [24/2020]

Estate agency agreement required as regards certain proposals
and undertakings

 44.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), where an estate agent proposes
or undertakes (whether or not for a commission or other fee) to
perform estate agency work for a client, whether as regards a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   38

particular property or not, a right or other cause of action whereby
agreed sums, damages or any other relief or remedy may be recovered
or obtained in legal proceedings as regards the proposal or
undertaking shall lie at the suit of the estate agent if, and only if —

(a) an estate agency agreement embodying the terms of the
     proposal or undertaking, being an agreement between the
     estate agent and the client which is in the form prescribed
     and which contains such particulars (if any) in respect of
     the proposal or undertaking as are prescribed for the
     purposes of this section has been entered into and, in the
     case of a written document, properly executed; and

(b) the estate agent was a licensed estate agent at the time
     when the estate agency agreement was so entered into and
     executed.

 (2) Subject to subsection (4), where an estate agent makes a
proposal or gives an undertaking to perform estate agency work for a
client as described in subsection (1), the agent is entitled to recover
from, or to require the payment by any other person of, any amount in
respect of any outgoing paid or payable by the agent as regards any
acquisition or disposition of any property to which the proposal or
undertaking relates if, and only if —

(a) an estate agency agreement between the estate agent and
     the client which is in the prescribed form and contains, in
     respect of the proposal or undertaking, such particulars (if
     any) as are prescribed for the purposes of this section has
     been entered into and, in the case of a written document,
     properly executed;

(b) the estate agency agreement expressly provides for such
     recovery or reimbursement; and

          (c) the estate agent was a licensed estate agent at the time
              when the estate agency agreement was so entered into and
              executed.

 (3) A right or other cause of action described in subsection (1) shall
not lie at the suit of any person other than the estate agent within the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
39  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

meaning of this section by reason only of anything contained in this
section.

 (4) Regulations made under section 72 may exclude any class or
description of estate agency work from the operation of
subsections (1) and (2).

                                   PART 4A

PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING, PROLIFERATION
           FINANCING AND TERRORISM FINANCING

                                                                               [Act 15 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

Application of this Part

 44A.—(1) This Part relates to the measures, consistent with
standards set by the intergovernmental body known as the
Financial Action Task Force, that a licensed estate agent or a
registered salesperson must take when doing any estate agency work
in relation to an acquisition or a disposition of a property, to prevent
the acquisition or disposition of the property from being used to
facilitate money laundering, proliferation financing or terrorism
financing, or any combination of these activities.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

                                                                               [Act 15 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 (2) This Part applies to all licensed estate agents and registered
salespersons.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

Customer due diligence measures

 44B.—(1) A licensed estate agent must perform the prescribed
customer due diligence measures in any of the following
circumstances:

       (a) when doing any estate agency work for a client;

       (b) where the licensed estate agent has reason to suspect
            money laundering, proliferation financing or terrorism
            financing;

                                                                               [Act 15 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   40

          (c) where the licensed estate agent has reason to doubt the
              veracity or adequacy of information obtained from earlier
              customer due diligence measures;

       (d) under circumstances prescribed for the purposes of this
            section.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (2) A registered salesperson must perform the prescribed customer
due diligence measures in any of the following circumstances:

(a) when doing any estate agency work for a client;

(b) where the registered salesperson has reason to suspect
     money laundering, proliferation financing or terrorism
     financing;

                                                                    [Act 15 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

(c) where the registered salesperson has reason to doubt the
     veracity or adequacy of information obtained from earlier
     customer due diligence measures;

(d) under circumstances prescribed for the purposes of this
     section.

                                                                                                 [24/2020]

Counterparty due diligence measures

 44BA.—(1) This section applies when, in relation to an acquisition
or a disposition of a property for which a licensed estate agent or
registered salesperson is doing estate agency work for a client, a
counterparty is not represented by any licensed estate agent or
registered salesperson in respect of the acquisition or disposition of
the property.

 (2) The licensed estate agent must perform the prescribed
counterparty due diligence measures in any of the following
circumstances:

       (a) where the licensed estate agent has reason to suspect
            money laundering, proliferation financing or terrorism
            financing;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
41  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

    (b) where the licensed estate agent has reason to doubt the
         veracity or adequacy of information obtained from earlier
         counterparty due diligence measures;

    (c) under circumstances prescribed for the purposes of this
        section.

 (3) The registered salesperson must perform the prescribed
counterparty due diligence measures in any of the following
circumstances:

    (a) where the registered salesperson has reason to suspect
         money laundering, proliferation financing or terrorism
         financing;

    (b) where the registered salesperson has reason to doubt the
         veracity or adequacy of information obtained from earlier
         counterparty due diligence measures;

    (c) under circumstances prescribed for the purposes of this
        section.

                            [Act 15 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

Keeping of records

 44C.—(1) A licensed estate agent must keep the following
documents and information for such period as may be prescribed:

       (a) a record of all estate agency work for which —

               (i) the licensed estate agent must perform the customer
                   due diligence measures mentioned in section 44B(1)
                   or the counterparty due diligence measures
                   mentioned in section 44BA(2); or

              (ii) a registered salesperson of the licensed estate agent
                   must perform the customer due diligence measures
                   mentioned in section 44B(2) or the counterparty due
                   diligence measures mentioned in section 44BA(3),

       (a) containing such particulars as may be prescribed;

                                                                               [Act 15 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

       (b) a record of all information relating to a client that is kept or
            obtained by the licensed estate agent, or by a registered

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   42

          salesperson of the licensed estate agent, through the
          customer due diligence measures performed under
          section 44B(1) or (2);

      (ba) a record of all information relating to a counterparty that is
            kept or obtained by the licensed estate agent, or by a
            registered salesperson of the licensed estate agent, through
            the counterparty due diligence measures performed under
            section 44BA(2) or (3);

                                                                               [Act 15 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

       (c) each supporting document relied on in support of any
            information referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) and (ba);

                                                                               [Act 15 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

       (d) such other document and information as may be
            prescribed.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (2) A licensed estate agent must keep the documents and
information mentioned in subsection (1) in such form and manner
as may be prescribed.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (3) A licensed estate agent must make the documents and
information mentioned in subsection (1) available upon request to
the Council in the manner prescribed.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

Disclosure of suspicious transactions

 44D. A licensed estate agent or a registered salesperson must, if
circumstances exist that require the licensed estate agent or registered
salesperson to do so, make a disclosure under section 45(1) of the
Corruption, Drug Trafficking and Other Serious Crimes
(Confiscation of Benefits) Act 1992.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

Contravention of this Part

 44E. A licensed estate agent or a registered salesperson who
contravenes this Part is liable to disciplinary action.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
43  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

                             PART 5

    INSPECTION, ENFORCEMENT,
     DISCIPLINE AND OFFENCES

Interpretation of this Part

44F. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

    “computer” and “computer output” have the meanings given by
       section 2(1) of the Computer Misuse Act 1993;

    “document” includes, in addition to a document in writing —

    (a) any map, plan, graph or drawing;

    (b) any photograph;

    (c) any label, marking or other writing which identifies
        or describes anything of which it forms a part, or to
        which it is attached by any means;

    (d) any disc, tape, soundtrack or other device in which
         sounds or other data (not being visual images) are
         embodied so as to be capable (with or without the aid
         of some other equipment) of being reproduced from
         it;

    (e) any film (including microfilm), negative, tape, disc
        or other device in which one or more visual images
        are embodied so as to be capable (with or without the
        aid of some other equipment) of being reproduced
        from it; and

    (f) any paper or other material on which there are marks,
        impressions, figures, letters, symbols or perforations
        having a meaning for persons qualified to interpret
        them;

    “writing” includes any mode of representing or reproducing
       words, figures, drawings or symbols in a visible form.

                                                             [24/2020]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   44

Appointment of inspectors

 45.—(1) The Council may appoint any of its officers or employees
to be an inspector for the purposes of this Act.

 (2) The Council must provide every inspector with an identification
card that identifies him or her as an inspector.

 (3) Every inspector must, when exercising any power under this
Act, on demand produce his or her identification card to the person
affected by the exercise of that power.

Powers to inspect and require persons to provide documents
and information, etc.

 46.—(1) An inspector may, for the purpose of ascertaining whether
this Act has been or is being complied with or any investigation under
this Act, do all or any of the following:

       (a) enter and inspect any premises under the possession or
            control of any licensed estate agent to —

               (i) inspect any document, computer, computer program,
                   computer software or computer output on the
                   premises that may relate to compliance with or any
                   investigation under this Act;

              (ii) without payment, make copies of or take extracts
                   from any such document, computer, computer
                   program, computer software or computer output;

             (iii) without payment, take possession of any such
                   document, computer, computer program, computer
                   software or computer output where, in the opinion of
                   the inspector —

                    (A) the inspection, copying of or extraction from
                          any part of such document, computer,
                          computer program, computer software or
                          computer output cannot reasonably be
                          performed without taking possession;

                     (B) such document, computer, computer program,
                          computer software or computer output may be

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
45  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

    interfered with or destroyed unless possession
    is taken; or

    (C) such document, computer, computer program,
         computer software or computer output may be
         required as evidence in proceedings instituted
         or commenced for any of the purposes of, or in
         connection with, this Act;

    (iv) take onto the premises any equipment and materials
         that the inspector requires for the purpose of
         exercising any power under this section;

    (v) operate any electronic equipment on the premises,
         including —

    (A) using a disc, tape or other storage device that is
         on the premises and that can be used with the
         equipment or in association with the
         equipment;

    (B) operating electronic equipment on the premises
         to put any relevant data in documentary form
         and remove the documents so produced from
         the premises; and

    (C) operating electronic equipment on the premises
         to transfer any relevant data to a disc, tape or
         other storage device that is brought onto the
         premises for the purpose of exercising any
         power under this section and to remove the
         disc, tape or other storage device from the
         premises; and

    (vi) do anything that is necessary or expedient to carry
         out the inspection;

    (b) require, by written notice, any person who, from any
         information given to or otherwise obtained by the
         inspector, appears to be acquainted with the facts or
         circumstances of the case, to attend personally before the
         inspector, at a time and place specified in the notice;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   46

          (c) examine orally any person reasonably believed to be
              acquainted with the facts or circumstances of the case or
              with such other matter as the inspector may specify, and
              reduce into writing the answer given or statement made by
              that person;

       (d) require any person to provide the inspector, in the form and
            manner specified by the inspector, with any information or
            any document, computer, computer program, computer
            software or computer output in the possession, or under the
            custody or control, of the person.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (2) The person mentioned in subsection (1)(c) is bound to state truly
the facts or circumstances with which the person is acquainted, except
that the person need not say anything that might expose the person to
a criminal charge, penalty or forfeiture.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (3) A statement made by the person mentioned in subsection (1)(c)
must be read over to the person and must, after correction (if
necessary), be signed by the person.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (4) The power of an inspector to require a person to provide any
document, computer, computer program, computer software or
computer output under subsection (1)(d) includes the power to —

(a) without payment, inspect, copy or take extracts from the
     document, computer, computer program, computer
     software or computer output; and

(b) where the person is a licensed estate agent, a key executive
     officer, a director, a partner or an employee of a licensed
     estate agent, or a registered salesperson, or where the
     inspector has reasonable grounds for believing that an
     offence under this Act has been committed — without
     payment, take possession of the document where, in the
     opinion of the inspector —

          (i) the inspection, copying of or extraction from any part
              of the document cannot reasonably be performed
              without taking possession;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
47  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

    (ii) the document may be interfered with or destroyed
         unless possession is taken; or

    (iii) the document may be required as evidence in
          proceedings instituted or commenced for any of
          the purposes of, or in connection with, this Act.

                                                                                            [24/2020]

Additional powers to investigate offences

 47.—(1) In addition to the powers conferred on an inspector by this
Act, an inspector who has reasonable grounds for believing that an
offence under this Act has been committed may —

       (a) at reasonable hours, enter any premises (whether or not in
            the possession or control of a licensed estate agent) on
            which the inspector has reasonable cause to believe
            evidence of the commission of the offence may be
            found, and search and inspect any document, computer,
            computer program, computer software or computer output
            on those premises;

       (b) require any person whom the inspector reasonably believes
            to have committed the offence to provide evidence of the
            person’s identity; and

       (c) take any photograph or make any video or audio recording
            or sketch —

               (i) of any person reasonably believed to be acquainted
                   with the facts or circumstances of the case, or with
                   such other matter as the inspector may specify; and

              (ii) on the premises as the inspector thinks necessary.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (2) The power of an inspector to search and inspect any document,
computer, computer program, computer software or computer output
under subsection (1)(a) includes the power to —

       (a) without payment, inspect, copy or take extracts from the
            document, computer, computer program, computer
            software or computer output; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   48

(b) without payment, take possession of the document,
     computer, computer program, computer software or
     computer output where, in the opinion of the inspector —

          (i) the inspection, copying of or extraction from any part
              of the document, computer, computer program,
              computer software or computer output cannot
              reasonably be performed without taking possession;

          (ii) the document, computer, computer program,
               computer software or computer output may be
               interfered with or destroyed unless possession is
               taken; or

            (iii) the document, computer, computer program,
                  computer software or computer output may be
                  required as evidence in proceedings instituted or
                  commenced for an offence under this Act.

                                                                                                         [24/2020]

48. [Repealed by Act 24 of 2020]

Complaints

 49.—(1) Any complaint of the conduct of a licensed estate agent or
registered salesperson may in the first place be made to the Executive
Director who must refer the complaint to the Council.

 (2) The Executive Director may on his or her own motion refer any
information concerning the conduct of a licensee or salesperson to the
Council.

 (3) The Council may require any complaint or class of complaints
to be supported by such statutory declaration as the Council may
require, except that no statutory declaration is required if the
complaint is made by any public officer.

 (4) After receiving any complaint or information under
subsection (1) or (2), the Council may, if it is of the opinion that
there is a sufficient case for investigation, refer the matter for
investigation under section 50.

 (5) The Council must consider any report or recommendations
submitted under section 50(3) and may refer the matter or report back

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
49  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

to the inspector for further consideration or investigation as it may
consider necessary or desirable.

 (6) Subject to subsections (7), (8), (9), (10) and (11), after
considering the report and recommendations submitted under
section 50(3) —

    (a) where the Council is satisfied that any of the following has
         been contravened:

    (i) any provision of Part 4A;

    (ii) any regulation made under section 72, or any
         provision of a code of practice, ethics and conduct
         prescribed or issued and published under
         section 42(1), in respect of requirements relating to
         the detection and prevention of money laundering,
         proliferation financing and terrorism financing, or
         for the reporting of transactions suspected of
         involving money laundering, proliferation
         financing or terrorism financing,

    (a) the Council may do one or both of the following:

    (iii) impose on the licensed estate agent or registered
          salesperson concerned a financial penalty not
          exceeding $5,000 for each contravention;

    (iv) censure the licensed estate agent or registered
         salesperson concerned; and

    (b) where the Council is satisfied that there is any other
         sufficient cause apart from a contravention mentioned in
         paragraph (a), the Council may do one or both of the
         following:

    (i) impose on the licensed estate agent or registered
        salesperson concerned a financial penalty of any
        amount not exceeding $5,000;

    (ii) censure the licensed estate agent or registered
         salesperson concerned.

                                   [Act 15 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   50

 (7) The Council must, before making any decision under
subsection (6) in relation to the licensed estate agent or registered
salesperson, give the licensed estate agent or registered salesperson
written notice of the Council’s intention to do so.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (8) Upon receipt of the notice of the Council under subsection (7),
the licensed estate agent or registered salesperson may, within
14 days after the date of the notice, show cause to the Council as to
why the Council should not take any or all of the actions (as the case
may be) under subsection (6).

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

                                                                               [Act 15 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 (9) The Council must, after the licensed estate agent or registered
salesperson has shown cause under subsection (8) or the time to do so
has expired, give written notice to the licensed estate agent or
registered salesperson of the Council’s decision under subsection (6).

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (10) Subject to section 59, any decision by the Council under
subsection (6) does not take effect until 14 days after the Council has
served the written notice under subsection (9) to the licensed estate
agent or registered salesperson.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (11) If the Council considers it appropriate, the Council may,
instead of making any decision under subsection (6), refer the matter
to a Disciplinary Committee.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

Investigations

 50.—(1) The Council, or a person authorised by the Council, may
appoint one or more inspectors to conduct an investigation into any
complaint made or information received under section 49.

 (2) Where any matter is investigated under subsection (1), the
person in relation to whom the complaint has been made is, for the
purposes of this Act, referred to as “person under investigation”.

 (3) On completion of investigation, the inspector must submit a
report and make recommendations to the Council as to whether the
exercise of powers under section 52 should be considered.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
51  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5) and except in the performance of a
function under this section, the inspector, the Council, a Disciplinary
Committee and any person who assists in the performance of a
function under this section must maintain confidentiality in respect of
all matters and information produced or given or otherwise provided
for the purposes of an investigation under this section.

 (5) Nothing in subsection (4) prevents the disclosure of
information —

    (a) with a view to the institution of, or otherwise for the
         purposes of, any criminal proceedings or any investigation
         in connection therewith, whether under this Act or
         otherwise, in Singapore;

    (b) in connection with any civil proceedings to which the
         Council is a party; or

    (c) in connection with the exercise of any power under this
        Part.

Disciplinary Panel and Disciplinary Committee

 51.—(1) The Council may appoint a Disciplinary Panel of not more
than the number of members determined by the Council.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (2) The Council must, from members of the Disciplinary Panel who
are also members of the Council, appoint a Head of the Disciplinary
Panel.

 (3) The Council may, at any time, revoke the appointment of any
member of the Disciplinary Panel, or fill any vacancy in the
Disciplinary Panel.

 (4) The Head of the Disciplinary Panel may appoint Disciplinary
Committees from members of the Disciplinary Panel, to formally
inquire into any matter referred to a Disciplinary Committee under
section 49.

 (5) A Disciplinary Committee must comprise at least 3 members.

 (6) A Disciplinary Committee may be appointed in connection with
one or more matters or for a fixed period of time as the Head of the
Disciplinary Panel thinks fit.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   52

 (7) Any inspector or person who participates in the investigation of
any matter must not be a member of a Disciplinary Committee
inquiring into the same matter.

 (8) The Head of the Disciplinary Panel must appoint a member of a
Disciplinary Committee to be the Chairperson of the Disciplinary
Committee.

 (9) The Head of the Disciplinary Panel may, at any time, revoke the
appointment of any Disciplinary Committee or any member thereof,
or fill any vacancy in a Disciplinary Committee.

 (10) No act done by or under the authority of the Council or a
Disciplinary Committee is invalid in consequence of any defect that
is subsequently discovered in the appointment or qualification of the
members or any of them.

 (11) A member of a Disciplinary Committee, even though he or she
has ceased to be a member of the Council or Disciplinary Panel on the
expiry of his or her term of office, continues to be a member of the
Disciplinary Committee until such time the Disciplinary Committee
has completed its work.

Disciplinary action, etc.

 52.—(1) The Disciplinary Committee must consider all reports of
an inspector on any matter referred to it under this Part and must,
according to the circumstances of the case, determine that —

       (a) there is no sufficient cause for disciplinary action against
            the person under investigation;

       (b) there is sufficient cause for disciplinary action against the
            person under investigation; or

       (c) despite there being no sufficient cause for disciplinary
            action against the person under investigation, the person
            should still be admonished or reprimanded.

 (2) Sufficient cause for disciplinary action may be shown by proof
that a licensee or registered salesperson —

       (a) has been guilty of unsatisfactory conduct or misconduct in
            relation to estate agency work;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
53  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

    (b) has breached any of the provisions of this Act or of any
         subsidiary legislation, regulations or code made under this
         Act (whether or not any other action has been taken in
         respect of such breach); or

    (c) has breached any order of a Disciplinary Committee or the
        Appeals Board,

if such conduct, misconduct or breach warrants disciplinary action.

 (3) Where the Disciplinary Committee determines that there is
sufficient cause for disciplinary action against a licensee or registered
salesperson under investigation, the Disciplinary Committee may,
subject to this section, impose a financial penalty of a specified
amount not exceeding the maximum specified in subsection (12) or
(13) or both (as the case may be) and exercise either of the following
powers as it considers appropriate, whether or not a financial penalty
is imposed:

    (a) suspend his or her licence or registration;

    (b) revoke his or her licence or registration.

                                                             [24/2020]

                            [Act 15 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 (4) Where the Disciplinary Committee determines that despite
there being no cause for disciplinary action against a licensee or
registered salesperson under investigation, but the person should still
be admonished or reprimanded, the Disciplinary Committee may,
subject to this section, admonish or reprimand the licensee or
registered salesperson in writing under the hand of the Chairperson.

 (5) Where the Disciplinary Committee exercises powers under
subsection (3) or (4), it may also exercise such of the following
powers as it considers appropriate:

    (a) attach specified conditions to the licence or registration
         concerned;

    (b) vary any condition already attached to such licence or
         registration.

 (6) The Disciplinary Committee may, in exercising any power
under subsection (3), (4) or (5), order the licensee or salesperson to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   54

pay the Council fixed costs of $1,000 or such other amount as may be
prescribed from time to time.

 (7) Before any power is exercised under subsection (3), (4), (5) or
(6), the licensee or salesperson concerned must be given a reasonable
opportunity of being heard.

 (8) Where, after considering any representations made, the
Disciplinary Committee exercises any power under subsection (3),
(4), (5) or (6), the Disciplinary Committee must inform the licensee or
salesperson concerned either in person or in writing.

 (9) Subject to this Act and unless otherwise ordered by the
Disciplinary Committee or the Appeals Board, any order of the
Disciplinary Committee under this section takes effect upon
pronouncement.

 (10) Where a licence or registration is suspended or revoked, no fee
or other sum paid in respect of the grant or renewal of the licence or
registration may be refunded.

 (11) Any financial penalty imposed upon, or costs ordered to be
paid by, a licensee or salesperson under this Act may be recovered as
a civil debt due to the Council.

 (12) The maximum financial penalty that the Disciplinary
Committee may impose for any sufficient cause for disciplinary
action apart from a contravention mentioned in subsection (13) is —

(a) in the case of a licensed estate agent — $200,000; and

       (b) in the case of a registered salesperson — $100,000.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

                                                                               [Act 15 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 (13) The maximum financial penalty that the Disciplinary
Committee may impose where the Disciplinary Committee
determines that a licensed estate agent or registered salesperson has
contravened —

(a) any provision of Part 4A; or

(b) any regulation made under section 72, or any provision of a
     code of practice, ethics and conduct prescribed or issued
     and published under section 42(1), in respect of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
55    Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

      requirements relating to the detection and prevention of
      money laundering, proliferation financing and terrorism
      financing, or for the reporting of transactions suspected of
      involving money laundering, proliferation financing or
      terrorism financing,

is —

      (c) in the case of a licensed estate agent — $200,000 for each
          contravention; and

      (d) in the case of a registered salesperson — $100,000 for each
           contravention.

                              [Act 15 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

Powers and procedures of Disciplinary Committee

 53.—(1) In the discharge of its functions under this Act, a
Disciplinary Committee has all of the following powers:

       (a) to take evidence on oath;

       (b) to summon any person to attend any hearing of the
            Disciplinary Committee to give evidence or produce any
            document or other article in the person’s possession, except
            that no person is bound to answer any question or produce
            any document or other article in respect of any matter
            which would have been protected from disclosure on the
            ground of privilege if the proceedings had been held in any
            court;

       (c) to do anything which is necessary or expedient to enable it
            to perform its functions.

 (2) A Disciplinary Committee is not bound by the rules of evidence
applicable to civil proceedings but may inform itself of any matter as
it thinks fit.

 (3) All members of a Disciplinary Committee, in the performance
of their functions and duties under this Act, are deemed to be public
servants for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

 (4) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a Disciplinary Committee
may regulate its own procedure in such manner as it thinks fit.

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   56

 (5) The quorum of a Disciplinary Committee is 3 members, one of
whom must be the Chairperson of the Disciplinary Committee.

 (6) The Chairperson of a Disciplinary Committee must preside at
any proceedings of the Disciplinary Committee.

 (7) A party to proceedings before a Disciplinary Committee may be
represented by a solicitor, who may examine witnesses and address
the Disciplinary Committee on behalf of the party.

 (8) The proceedings of a Disciplinary Committee are not open to
the public.

 (9) All matters coming before a Disciplinary Committee must be
decided by a majority of votes of the members present, and in the
event of an equality of votes, the Chairperson of the Disciplinary
Committee has a second or casting vote.

 (10) No act or proceedings of a Disciplinary Committee may be
questioned by reason only of any vacancy on it.

                                    PART 6

                SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF
                    LICENCE AND REGISTRATION

Suspension or revocation of estate agent’s licence

 54.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Council may
suspend an estate agent’s licence for such period of time as it thinks
fit, or revoke the licence at any time.

 (2) The Council may suspend or revoke an estate agent’s licence
if —

       (a) the relevant licensee has ceased to be engaged in estate
            agency work, or is wound up or otherwise dissolved;

       (b) the relevant licensee is not eligible to hold or continue to
            hold the licence under the provisions of this Act, or would
            not be entitled to be granted a licence under the provisions
            of this Act if an application for a licence were to be made at
            such time;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
57  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

    (c) the relevant licensee had, in connection with the
        application for a licence, provided false or misleading
        information in a material particular;

    (d) any relevant certificate or qualification used to support the
         application for a licence is withdrawn or cancelled;

    (e) the relevant licensee has contravened any requirements or
        other provisions of this Act;

    (f) the relevant licensee has failed to pay any fine, fee, charge
        or financial penalty (other than a financial penalty imposed
        under section 49(6)) charged or imposed under this Act;

    (g) the relevant licensee has failed to comply with any of the
         conditions attached to the licence; or

       (h) the Council considers that the relevant licensee is no longer
            a fit and proper person to hold a licence.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (3) Where the Council proposes to suspend or revoke a licence, it
must give the relevant licensee written notice of the proposal and the
reasons for it.

 (4) A notice under subsection (3) must state that within a period of
21 days starting on the date of the notice, or within such longer period
as the Council may allow in a particular case, representations
regarding the proposed suspension or revocation (as the case may be)
may be made in writing to the Council by or on behalf of the licensee
concerned.

 (5) Where representations are made pursuant to subsection (4), the
Council must not suspend or revoke the licence concerned without
having considered the representations.

 (6) Where a licence is suspended under this section, the Council
may shorten the period for which the licence is suspended or lift the
suspension.

 (7) Where any licence is suspended or revoked under this section,
no fee or other sum paid in respect of the grant or renewal of the
licence may be refunded.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   58

Suspension or revocation of registration

 55.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Council may
suspend the registration of a salesperson for such period of time as it
thinks fit, or revoke the registration.

 (2) The Council may suspend or revoke the registration of a
salesperson at any time if —

(a) the relevant salesperson has ceased to do work for or be
     engaged by the estate agent he or she was registered
     through;

(b) the relevant salesperson would not be eligible to be
     registered under the provisions of this Act if an
     application for registration were to be made at such time;

          (c) the relevant salesperson or estate agent had, in connection
              with the application for registration, provided false or
              misleading information in a material particular;

(d) any relevant certificate or qualification used to support the
     application for registration is withdrawn or cancelled;

          (e) the relevant salesperson has contravened any requirements
              or other provisions of this Act;

          (f) the relevant salesperson has failed to pay any fine, fee,
              charge or financial penalty (other than a financial penalty
              imposed under section 49(6)) charged or imposed under
              this Act;

(g) the relevant salesperson has failed to comply with any of
     the conditions attached to the registration; or

       (h) the Council considers that the relevant salesperson is no
            longer a fit and proper person to be registered as a
            salesperson.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (3) Where the Council proposes to suspend or revoke the
registration of a salesperson, it must give the relevant salesperson
and the estate agent he or she was registered through written notice of
the proposal and the reasons for it.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
59  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

 (4) A notice under subsection (3) must state that within a period of
21 days starting on the date of the notice, or within such longer period
as the Council may allow in a particular case, representations
regarding the proposed suspension or revocation (as the case may be)
may be made in writing to the Council by or on behalf of the persons
concerned.

 (5) Where representations are made pursuant to subsection (4), the
Council must not suspend or revoke the registration of the
salesperson concerned without having considered the
representations.

 (6) Where registration is suspended under this section, the Council
may shorten the period for which the registration of a salesperson is
suspended or lift the suspension.

 (7) Where the registration of a salesperson is suspended or revoked
under this section, no fee or other sum paid in respect of the
registration may be refunded.

Effect of revocation and suspension

 56.—(1) Where any estate agent’s licence is revoked or while any
order of suspension remains in force, the estate agent must cease to
carry on the business of an estate agent.

 (2) An estate agent whose licence is suspended is, while the
suspension remains in force, deemed to be a person who does not hold
an estate agent’s licence, except for the purposes of any disciplinary
proceedings under Part 5.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (3) Where the registration of a salesperson is revoked or while any
order of suspension remains in force, the salesperson must cease to
act as a salesperson for any person.

 (4) A salesperson whose registration is suspended is, while the
suspension remains in force, deemed to be a person who is not
registered as a salesperson, except for the purposes of any
disciplinary proceedings under Part 5.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   60

 (5) Any security furnished under section 33 may be forfeited to the
Council in whole or in part at the discretion of the Council on the
suspension or revocation of a licence.

                                    PART 7

                                   APPEALS

Constitution of Appeals Board

 57.—(1) There is an Appeals Board consisting of not more than
15 members as the Minister may appoint.

 (2) The Minister must appoint —

       (a) from members of the Appeals Board —

               (i) a Chairperson of the Appeals Board; and

              (ii) one or more Vice-Chairpersons of the Appeals Board
                   as the Minister thinks fit; and

       (b) one or more secretaries to the Appeals Board and such
            other officers as may be required to assist the Appeals
            Board in the discharge of its duties and functions.

 (3) Every member of the Appeals Board must, unless the Minister
otherwise directs, hold office for a period of 3 years and be eligible
for re-appointment.

 (4) The Minister may, at any time, revoke the appointment of any
member of the Appeals Board or secretary to the Appeals Board or
fill any vacancy in the Appeals Board.

 (5) A member of the Appeals Board may resign his or her office by
written notice to the Minister.

 (6) Members of the Appeals Board may receive such remuneration
and such travelling and subsistence allowances as the Minister may
determine.

Duty, powers and procedures of Appeals Board

 58.—(1) It is the duty of the Appeals Board to hear and decide all
appeals under section 59.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
61  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

 (2) In the discharge of its functions under this Act, the Appeals
Board has the following powers:

    (a) to take evidence on oath;

    (b) to summon any person to attend any hearing of the Appeals
         Board to give evidence or produce any document or other
         article in his or her possession, except that no person is
         bound to answer any question or produce any document or
         other article in respect of any matter which would have
         been protected from disclosure on the ground of privilege
         if the proceedings had been held in any court;

    (c) to do anything which is necessary or expedient to enable it
        to perform its functions;

    (d) to exercise the powers of a Disciplinary Committee under
         this Act.

 (3) The Appeals Board is not bound by the rules of evidence
applicable to civil proceedings but may inform itself of any matter as
it thinks fit.

 (4) The Chairperson must, when present, preside at every meeting
of the Appeals Board, and in his or her absence the following person
must preside:

    (a) where there is only one Vice‑Chairperson present — the
         Vice‑Chairperson; and

    (b) where there is more than one Vice‑Chairperson present —
         such Vice‑Chairperson as may be chosen by the
         Vice‑Chairpersons present.

 (5) All members of the Appeals Board, in the performance of their
functions and duties under this Act, are deemed to be public servants
for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

 (6) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Appeals Board may
regulate its own procedure in such manner as it thinks fit.

 (7) All powers, functions and duties of the Appeals Board may be
exercised, discharged and performed by any committee of the
Appeals Board consisting of at least 3 members of the Appeals

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   62

Board, at least one of whom must be the Chairperson or a
Vice‑Chairperson.

 (8) Any act, finding or decision of any such committee of the
Appeals Board is deemed to be the act, finding or decision of the
Appeals Board.

 (9) The secretary to the Appeals Board may summon such members
of the Appeals Board as may be nominated by the Chairperson (or a
Vice‑Chairperson authorised by the Chairperson) to constitute a
committee of the Appeals Board to consider and determine an appeal
under this Part.

 (10) The quorum of the Appeals Board and any committee of the
Appeals Board is 3 members, one of whom must be the Chairperson
or a Vice‑Chairperson.

 (11) The proceedings of a committee of the Appeals Board must be
presided by —

(a) where the Chairperson is a member of the committee —
     the Chairperson; and

(b) where the Chairperson is not a member of the committee
     and —

          (i) there is only one Vice‑Chairperson on the
              committee — the Vice‑Chairperson; or

          (ii) there is more than one Vice‑Chairperson on the
               committee — such Vice‑Chairperson as the
               Chairperson may determine.

 (12) Where the person to preside at a meeting of a committee under
subsection (11) is absent from any meeting of the committee, the
meeting must be presided by —

(a) where there is only one Vice‑Chairperson who is a member
     of the committee present — the Vice‑Chairperson; and

(b) where there is more than one Vice‑Chairperson who is a
     member of the committee present — such
     Vice‑Chairperson as may be chosen by the
     Vice‑Chairpersons present.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
63  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

 (13) The proceedings of the Appeals Board and any committee of
the Appeals Board are not open to the public.

 (14) All matters coming before the Appeals Board or a committee
of the Appeals Board must be decided by a majority of votes of the
members present, and in the event of an equality of votes, the member
presiding has a second or casting vote.

 (15) No act or proceedings of the Appeals Board or a committee of
the Appeals Board may be questioned by reason only of any vacancy
on it.

 (16) A member of a committee of the Appeals Board, even though
he or she has ceased to be a member of the Appeals Board on the
expiry of his or her term of office, continues to be a member of the
committee until such time as the committee has completed its work.

Appeals to Appeals Board

 59.—(1) Any person who is aggrieved by a decision of the Council
or a Disciplinary Committee under this Act may lodge an appeal
against the decision to the Appeals Board.

 (2) Every appeal under subsection (1) must be lodged within such
time, and in such form and manner, as may be provided by rules made
under section 62.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), the lodging of an appeal under
subsection (1) does not suspend the effect of the decision to which the
appeal relates.

 (4) Where the Council or a Disciplinary Committee has made an
order revoking or suspending a licence or registration and the licensee
or salesperson concerned gives due notice of appeal to the Appeals
Board under this section, the order that is appealed against is stayed
pending the determination of the appeal unless the Appeals Board, on
the application of the Council, orders otherwise.

 (5) The Appeals Board may —

       (a) confirm, set aside or modify the decision to which the
            appeal relates;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   64

(b) give such directions in such manner as the Appeals Board
     thinks fit, including a direction to the Council to review the
     decision to which the appeal relates; or

          (c) make such orders (if any) as it thinks fit, with regard to the
              payment of costs,

and the decision of the Appeals Board is final.

 (6) The decision of the Appeals Board must be communicated to
the licensee or salesperson in person, or in writing by the secretary to
the Appeals Board.

 (7) Unless otherwise ordered, an order of the Appeals Board takes
effect immediately upon pronouncement.

Representation before Appeals Board

 60.—(1) A party to proceedings before the Appeals Board may be
represented by a solicitor, who may examine witnesses and address
the Appeals Board on behalf of the party.

 (2) In proceedings before the Appeals Board, the Council may be
represented by a solicitor or an officer or employee of the Council.

Disclosure of conflict of interests by members of Appeals Board

 61.—(1) A member of the Appeals Board must declare to the
Minister, or any person authorised by the Minister, the nature and
extent of any actual or potential conflict of interests with his or her
duties or interests as a member of the Appeals Board arising from —

       (a) the member’s holding of any office;

       (b) the member’s interest in any contract;

       (c) the member’s possession or ownership of any property;

       (d) any direct or indirect relationship with any estate agent or
            salesperson; or

       (e) the member’s connection or association with any trade or
            consumer body.

 (2) Where the Minister, or any person authorised by the Minister, is
satisfied that a member of the Appeals Board is or may be unable to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
65  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

carry out his or her duties properly and effectively because of any
actual or potential conflict of interests, the Minister may replace that
member or direct that member to abstain from taking part in any
proceedings that is or may be affected by the conflict of interests.

Rules relating to appeals

 62. The Minister may make rules for or with respect to —

       (a) the time within which an appeal to the Appeals Board may
            be lodged;

       (b) the form and manner in which an appeal to the Appeals
            Board must be lodged;

       (c) the procedure of the appeal process and the hearing of the
            appeal;

       (d) the fees to be paid in respect of any appeal lodged with the
            Appeals Board;

       (e) the costs that can be awarded by the Appeals Board;

        (f) the records to be kept by the Appeals Board; and

       (g) all matters and things which are required or permitted to be
            prescribed or which are necessary or expedient to give
            effect to any provision of this Part.

Members of Appeals Board deemed to be public servants and
protection from personal liability

 63.—(1) The Chairperson, a Vice‑Chairperson and any member of
the Appeals Board, in the performance of their functions and duties
under this Act, are deemed to be public servants for the purposes of
the Penal Code 1871.

 (2) No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie personally against
any member of the Appeals Board for anything done or omitted to be
done in good faith in the exercise or purported exercise of powers
under this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   66

          PART 8

          MISCELLANEOUS

General offences and penalties

64.—(1) Any person who —

(a) in relation to any application under this Act —

          (i) makes any false statement which the person knows to
              be false or does not believe to be true or which the
              person makes recklessly; or

          (ii) intentionally suppresses any material fact;

(b) without reasonable excuse, fails, neglects or refuses to
     comply with a requirement or notice of an inspector under
     section 46 or 47;

(ba) in response to a requirement or notice of an inspector under
      section 46 or 47, provides any information, document or
      statement that the person knows is false or misleading in
      any material particular;

(bb) provides any information, document or statement under
      section 46 or 47 that is misleading by the intentional
      suppression of any material fact;

          (c) obstructs or impedes the Council, any officer of the
              Council or any inspector lawfully carrying out any
              function or duty in the exercise of any power conferred
              by or under this Act; or

(d) being summoned to attend at a hearing of the Disciplinary
     Committee or Appeals Board to give evidence or produce
     any document or other article, without reasonable excuse
     refuses or neglects to do so, or refuses to answer any
     questions put to the person by or with the concurrence of
     the Disciplinary Committee or Appeals Board, or
     otherwise hinders, obstructs or deceives the Disciplinary
     Committee or Appeals Board in the exercise of its powers
     under this Act,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
67  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (2) Any person guilty of an offence under this Act for which no
penalty is expressly provided shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

Power of Council to issue requisition for particulars or
information

 65.—(1) The Council may issue a written requisition to any person
to provide such particulars or supply such information relating to any
matter to which this Act applies as may be specified in the requisition.

 (2) A requisition issued by the Council under subsection (1) may —

       (a) specify the form in which and the time within which the
            particulars or information are to be provided or supplied;

       (b) require the particulars or information to be provided or
            supplied periodically at or within such time or times and in
            such form or forms as are specified in the requisition; and

       (c) specify the place or manner at or in which the particulars or
            information are to be delivered.

 (3) Every person who is issued a requisition by the Council under
subsection (1) must provide the particulars or supply the information
specified in the requisition to the best of his or her knowledge and
belief.

 (4) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with any requisition issued by the Council under subsection (1) shall
be guilty of an offence.

 (5) Any person who, in compliance or purported compliance with
any requisition issued by the Council under subsection (1), provides
the Council with any information or document which he or she knows
is false or misleading shall be guilty of an offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   68

Power of Council in relation to dispute resolution schemes

 66.—(1) Regulations may be made under section 72 to prescribe
one or more dispute resolution schemes for the resolution of disputes
arising from or relating to the provision of services by estate agents
and salespersons.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations may be made under
section 72 —

(a) requiring licensed estate agents or any class thereof to
     participate in such prescribed dispute resolution schemes
     and to comply with such terms and conditions of the
     schemes as may be prescribed;

(b) requiring registered salespersons or any class thereof to
     participate in such prescribed dispute resolution schemes
     and to comply with such terms and conditions of the
     schemes as may be prescribed;

          (c) prescribing approved dispute resolution centres under each
              prescribed dispute resolution scheme; and

(d) generally to give effect to this section.

 (3) Where the Council is satisfied that any licensed estate agent or
registered salesperson has contravened any of the regulations
mentioned in subsection (2), the Council may do all or any of the
following:

(a) impose a financial penalty of such amount, not exceeding
     $5,000, as the Council thinks fit;

(b) censure the estate agent or salesperson, if the Council
     thinks it necessary in the public interest or for the
     protection of the public or any section of the public;

          (c) revoke or suspend the licence or registration, or order that
              the licence or registration (as the case may be) be subject to
              such terms or conditions as the Council may impose,
              whether in addition to or in substitution of the existing
              terms and conditions.

 (4) The Council must, before making any decision under
subsection (3) in relation to an estate agent or a salesperson, give

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
69  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

the estate agent or salesperson (as the case may be) written notice of
its intention to do so.

 (5) Upon receiving the notice of the Council under subsection (4),
the person concerned or any manager of the person may, within a
period of 14 days after the date of the notice, show cause to the
Council as to why the Council should not impose a financial penalty,
censure or make an order under subsection (3)(c), as the case may be.

 (6) The Council must, after the estate agent or any manager of the
estate agent or the salesperson (as the case may be) has shown cause
under subsection (5) or the time to do so has expired, notify the party
concerned of its decision in writing.

 (7) Subject to section 59, any decision by the Council under
subsection (3) does not take effect until the end of 14 days after the
Council has served the notice of the decision on the party concerned.

 (8) The Council may issue, and in its discretion publish by
notification in the Gazette or in such other manner as it considers
appropriate, such guidelines as it considers appropriate for providing
guidance in relation to the operation of a prescribed dispute resolution
scheme.

Jurisdiction of court

 67. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment for
any such offence.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 68.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   70

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) is to apply in relation to the acts and defaults
of a member in connection with the member’s functions of
management as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     a partner; or

(b) to be attributable to any neglect on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
     its governing body; or

(b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such officer
     or member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(5) In this section, “officer” —

(a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director, partner,
     member of the committee of management, key executive
     officer, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
     officer of the body corporate and includes any person
     purporting to act in any such capacity; or

(b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other than a
     partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
     member of the committee of the unincorporated
     association, or any person holding a position analogous
     to that of president, secretary or member of such a
     committee and includes any person purporting to act in
     any such capacity.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
71  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

 (6) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with such modifications as the Minister
considers appropriate, to any body corporate or unincorporated
association formed or recognised under the law of a territory outside
Singapore.

Composition of offences

 69.—(1) The Executive Director or any officer authorised by him
or her may compound any offence under this Act which is prescribed
as a compoundable offence by collecting from a person reasonably
suspected of having committed the offence a sum not exceeding the
lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings may
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

Service of documents

 70.—(1) Any notice, order, direction or other document required or
authorised by this Act to be served on any person may be served on
the person —

       (a) in the case of an individual —

               (i) by delivering it to the individual personally;

              (ii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently resident
                   at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post to, the
                   usual or last known address of the individual’s place
                   of residence;

             (iii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently
                   employed at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
                   post to, the usual or last known address of the
                   individual’s place of business;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   72

          (iv) by affixing a copy of the notice in a conspicuous
               place at the usual or last known address of residence
               or business of the individual;

          (v) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
               usual or last known address of the individual’s place
               of residence or business, or the last fax number given
               to the Council by the individual as the fax number for
               the service of documents on the individual;

          (vi) subject to subsection (3B) — by sending it by email
               to the individual’s last email address; or

          (vii) subject to subsection (3B) — by sending it by an
                internet‑based messaging service to the individual’s
                last contact address;

(b) in the case of a partnership other than a limited liability
     partnership —

          (i) by delivering it to any one of the partners or the
              secretary or other similar officer of the partnership;

          (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
               post to, the partnership’s principal or last known
               place of business in Singapore;

          (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
                partnership’s principal or last known place of
                business in Singapore;

          (iv) subject to subsection (3B) — by sending it by email
               to the partnership’s last email address; or

          (v) subject to subsection (3B) — by sending it by an
               internet‑based messaging service to the partnership’s
               last contact address; and

          (c) in the case of any limited liability partnership or any other
              body corporate —

          (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other similar
              officer of the body corporate or, in the case of a
              limited liability partnership, its manager;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
73  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

    (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
         post to, the registered office or principal office of the
         limited liability partnership or body corporate in
         Singapore;

    (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
          registered office or principal office of the limited
          liability partnership or body corporate in Singapore;

    (iv) subject to subsection (3B) — by sending it by email
         to the limited liability partnership’s or body
         corporate’s last email address; or

              (v) subject to subsection (3B) — by sending it by an
                   internet‑based messaging service to the limited
                   liability partnership’s or body corporate’s last
                   contact address.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

 (2) Where any notice, order, direction or other document required
or authorised by this Act to be served is sent by fax to the fax number
operated at the last known place of residence or business or registered
office or principal office in accordance with subsection (1), it is
deemed to have been duly served on the person to whom it is
addressed on the day of transmission, subject to receipt on the
sending fax machine of a notification (by electronic or other means)
of a successful transmission to the place of residence or business or
registered office or principal office, as the case may be.

 (3) Where any notice, order, direction or other document required
or authorised by this Act to be served is sent by prepaid registered
post, it is deemed to have been duly served on the person to whom it is
addressed 2 days after the day the notice or document was posted,
whether or not it is returned undelivered.

 (3A) Where any notice, order, direction or other document is sent
by email or by an internet‑based messaging service under
subsection (1), service of the notice, order, direction or other
document takes effect at the time that the email or message
becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom it is sent.

                                                                                                           [24/2020]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.               Estate Agents Act 2010                      74

 (3B) Service of any notice, order, direction or other document
under this Act on a person by email or by an internet‑based messaging
service may be effected only —

(a) with the person’s prior consent to service in that way; and

(b) in a file format that the person has agreed to.

                                                                   [24/2020]

 (4) Any notice, order, direction or other document required or
authorised by this Act to be served on the owner or occupier of any
premises —

(a) may be served by delivering it or a true copy of it to an
     adult person on the premises or, if there is no such person
     on the premises to whom it can with reasonable diligence
     be delivered, by affixing the notice, order, direction or
     document to some conspicuous part of the premises; and

(b) is deemed to be properly addressed if addressed by the
     description of the owner or occupier of the premises
     without further name or description.

 (5) This section does not apply to notices and documents to be
served in proceedings in court.

(6) In this section —

“last contact address”, in relation to an internet‑based messaging
   service, means —

          (a) the last contact address, for receipt of messages
               through the internet‑based messaging service, given,
               under this Act, by the addressee concerned to the
               person giving or serving the notice, order, direction
               or other document as the contact address for the
               service of the notice, order, direction or other
               document; or

          (b) the last contact address, for receipt of messages
               through the internet‑based messaging service, of the
               addressee concerned known to the person giving or
               serving the notice, order, direction or other
               document;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
75  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

    “last email address” means —

    (a) the last email address given, under this Act, by the
         addressee concerned to the person giving or serving
         the notice, order, direction or other document as the
         email address for the service of the notice, order,
         direction or other document; or

    (b) the last email address of the addressee concerned
         known to the person giving or serving the notice,
         order, direction or other document.

                                                                                           [24/2020]

Amendment of Schedule

 71.—(1) Subject to Part 2, the Minister may at any time, by order in
the Gazette, amend the Schedule.

 (2) The Minister may, in any order made under subsection (1),
make such incidental, consequential or supplementary provisions as
may be necessary or expedient.

 (3) All orders made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Regulations

 72.—(1) The Council may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to give effect to the provisions and purposes of this Act,
except Part 7 (Appeals).

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations may be made under
that subsection for or in respect of all or any of the following matters:

       (a) applications for a licence and for registration, including the
            form and manner of application, and the particulars,
            information, and declarations to be provided with such
            applications;

       (b) particulars to be contained in the register, including the
            form in which it must be kept and public access to the
            register;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   76

          (c) requirements for a licence or registration, including
              minimum ages, educational qualifications, professional
              examinations, and practical experience;

(d) professional indemnity insurance for estate agents and
     salespersons;

          (e) continuing professional education requirements for the
              renewal of a licence or registration;

(ea) accreditation of any activities, courses and programmes for
      continuing professional education for or in respect of estate
      agents (including persons who are responsible for the
      management of estate agents) and salespersons;

          (f) codes of practice, ethics and conduct (by whatever name)
              for estate agents and salespersons;

(g) conditions or restrictions in relation to other activities or
     businesses that estate agents or salespersons may engage
     in;

(h) the books, accounts and records to be opened and kept by a
     licensed estate agent, and the manner of keeping them;

          (i) the information and records to be kept by registered
              salespersons, and the manner of keeping them;

          (j) the particulars or other matters to be included in estate
              agency agreements, in order to ensure that clients are
              aware of —

          (i) the parties, and the rights and obligations conferred
              on or imposed by any particular such agreement of
              the parties to it; and

          (ii) the amount or rate (as the case may be) of any
               commission or other fee payable by such client under
               such agreement, and the time and manner of
               payment;

          (k) the fees and charges payable under this Act, including the
              interest or penalty for the late payment of any fee or charge,
              and the waiver, refund or remission, whether wholly or in
              part, of such fees and charges;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
77  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

    (l) demerit points schemes, which may include financial
        penalties to be imposed on estate agents for the acts of their
        salespersons and other consequences including suspension
        or revocation;

    (m) the requirements and restrictions on the business names of
         estate agents, and the use or display of such names;

    (n) the form and manner of the keeping of registers or records
         under this Act, the inspection thereof, the taking of extracts
         therefrom, the supply of copies thereof, and the returns to
         be made to the Council including financial records;

    (o) the use of advertisements by or on behalf of estate agents,
         or any solicitation or canvassing for business by or on
         behalf of estate agents, whether by salespersons or
         otherwise;

    (p) the forms and procedure for Disciplinary Committee
         proceedings, including the fees payable, the costs that
         may be awarded, and the records to be kept;

    (q) requirements in relation to the detection and prevention of
         money laundering, proliferation financing and terrorism
         financing, or for the reporting of transactions suspected of
         involving money laundering, proliferation financing or
         terrorism financing;

                                                                        [Act 15 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

    (r) requirements, conditions and restrictions in relation to the
         receipt, holding, handling and transmission of money by
         estate agents and salespersons, which may include
         requirements for separate trust accounts;

      (s) to prescribe all matters and things which by this Act are
           required or permitted to be prescribed or which are
           necessary or expedient to be prescribed to give effect to
           this Act.

                                                                                                         [24/2020]

(3) Regulations made under subsection (1) —

    (a) may relate to all or any class or description of estate agents
         or salespersons;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   78

(b) may make different provisions for different classes or
     descriptions of estate agents or salespersons;

          (c) may provide that a contravention of any specified
              provision of the regulations shall be an offence; and

(d) may provide for penalties not exceeding a fine of $25,000
     or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or
     both for each offence and, in the case of a continuing
     offence, a further penalty not exceeding a fine of $1,000 for
     that offence for every day or part of a day during which the
     offence continues after conviction.

Amendment of references in written law or other documents to
estate agents

 73. Any reference to a “house agent” within the meaning of the
Appraisers and House Agents Act (Cap. 16, 2000 Revised Edition)
(in force before 22 October 2010) in any written law or any document
is to be construed as a reference to an “estate agent” within the
meaning of this Act.

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                           Sections 8(2) and 71(1)

             CONSTITUTION AND PROCEEDINGS OF COUNCIL

Appointment of president and members

 1.—(1) The president and other members of the Council must be appointed by
the Minister.

 (2) The Minister may appoint the Executive Director as a member of the
Council.

Appointment of deputy president

 2.—(1) The Minister may appoint any member of the Council to be the deputy
president of the Council.

 (2) The deputy president so appointed may, subject to such directions as the
president may give, exercise all or any of the powers exercisable by the president
under this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
79  Estate Agents Act 2010                                   2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

 (3) If for any reason the president is unable to act or the office of the president is
vacant, the deputy president may exercise all or any of the powers conferred, or
discharge all or any of the duties imposed, on the president under this Act.

Tenure of office of members

 3. A member holds office on such conditions and for such term, not exceeding
3 years, as the Minister may determine, and is eligible for re‑appointment.

Temporary president, deputy president or member

 4. The Minister may appoint any person to be a temporary president, deputy
president or other member during the temporary incapacity from illness or
otherwise, or during the temporary absence from Singapore, of the president,
deputy president or member, as the case may be.

Revocation of appointment

 5. The Minister may, at any time and without giving any reason, revoke the
appointment of the president, deputy president or other member.

Resignation from office

 6. A member may resign from the member’s office at any time by giving at least
one month’s notice to the Minister.

President may delegate function

 7. The president may, in writing and subject to such conditions or restrictions as
he or she thinks fit, authorise any member to exercise any power or perform any
function conferred on the president by or under this Act.

Vacation of office
 8. A member ceases to hold office if he or she —

        (a) dies;
        (b) fails to attend 3 consecutive meetings of the Council (without the

             approval of the Minister or the Council);
        (c) becomes in any manner disqualified from being a member of the

             Council;
        (d) resigns in accordance with paragraph 6; or
        (e) is removed from office in accordance with paragraph 5.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.              Estate Agents Act 2010                       80

                      THE SCHEDULE — continued

Filling of vacancies

 9. If a vacancy occurs in the membership of the Council, the Minister may,
subject to paragraph 11, appoint any person to fill the vacancy and the person so
appointed holds that office for the remainder of the term for which the vacating
member was appointed.

Leave of absence

 10. The Minister may grant to the president or any member such leave of
absence as the Minister may think fit.

Disqualification from membership

 11. No person may be appointed or may continue to hold office as a member if
he or she —

        (a) is an undischarged bankrupt or has made any arrangement or
             composition with his or her creditors;

        (b) has been sentenced to imprisonment for a term exceeding 6 months
             and has not received a free pardon;

        (c) is incapacitated by physical or mental illness; or

        (d) is otherwise unable or unfit to discharge the functions of a member.

Salaries, fees and allowances payable to members

 12. There are to be paid to the members out of the moneys of the Council such
salaries, fees and allowances as the Minister may determine.

Quorum

 13.—(1) At every meeting of the Council, one-third of the number of members
or 4 members, whichever is the higher, constitutes a quorum.

 (2) The president, or in the president’s absence the deputy president, presides at
meetings of the Council, and if both the president and deputy president are absent
from any meeting or part of any meeting, such member as the members present
may elect presides at that meeting or part of that meeting.

 (3) A decision at a meeting of the Council is to be adopted by a simple majority
of the members present and voting except that, in the case of an equality of votes,
the president or any other member presiding has a casting vote in addition to his or
her original vote.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
81                     Estate Agents Act 2010                2020 Ed.

                       THE SCHEDULE — continued

Procedure at meetings

 14.—(1) The president or any officer authorised by the president may, subject to
such standing orders as the Council may make under sub‑paragraph (2), summon
all meetings of the Council for the despatch of business.

 (2) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, the Council may make standing orders to regulate its own procedure
and, in particular, regarding the holding of meetings, the notice to be given of the
meetings, the proceedings at the meetings, the keeping of minutes, the custody,
production and inspection of the minutes, and the opening, keeping, closing and
auditing of accounts.

Validity of act or proceeding

 15. No act or proceeding of the Council may be questioned on the ground —

        (a) of any vacancy in, or defect in the constitution of, the Council;

        (b) of any defect in the appointment of any person acting as the president
             or as any other member; or

        (c) of any omission, defect or irregularity in the procedure of the Council
             not affecting the merits of the case.

Secretary of Council

 16. The Council may appoint an employee of the Council to be the secretary of
the Council, who is responsible, in accordance with such instructions as the
president may give to him or her, for arranging the business for, and keeping the
minutes of, the meetings of the Council and for conveying the decisions of the
Council to the appropriate person and has such other functions as the president
may direct.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                ESTATE AGENTS ACT 2010

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 25 of 2010 — Estate Agents Act 2010

Bill                  : 19/2010

First Reading         : 16 August 2010

Second and Third Readings : 15 September 2010

Commencement          : 22 October 2010 (except sections 29,
                            39, 41 and 44)
                            1 January 2011 (sections 29, 39, 41
                            and 44)

2. 2011 Revised Edition — Estate Agents Act (Chapter 95A)

Operation             : 31 December 2011

3. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
   (Amendments made by section 61 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2017

First Reading         : 6 November 2017

Second Reading        : 8 January 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 8 January 2018

Third Reading         : 8 January 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 61)

4. Act 24 of 2020 — Estate Agents (Amendment) Act 2020

Bill                  : 17/2020

First Reading         : 26 March 2020

Second and Third Readings : 5 May 2020

Commencement          : 30 July 2021

5. 2020 Revised Edition — Estate Agents Act 2010

Operation             : 31 December 2021

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
               ii

6. Act 15 of 2025 — Anti-Money Laundering and Other Matters (Estate
                           Agents and Developers) Act 2025

   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 7/2025

First Reading  : 7 March 2025

Second and Third Readings : 8 April 2025

Commencement   : 1 July 2025

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
  COMPARATIVE TABLE
ESTATE AGENTS ACT 2010

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2011 Ed.
—                          12—(7) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
[Omitted as spent]         74—(1)
[Omitted as spent]
[Omitted as spent]            (2)
[Omitted as spent]            (3)
THE SCHEDULE                  (4)
—                          FIRST SCHEDULE
                           SECOND SCHEDULE [Repealed by
                           Act 5 of 2018]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
