THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
             OPTOMETRISTS AND OPTICIANS
                               ACT 2007

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                                                                   2020 Ed.

         Optometrists and Opticians
                    Act 2007

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                              PART 1
                         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Application
     2.
     3.

                                        PART 2

                OPTOMETRISTS AND OPTICIANS BOARD

 4. Establishment of Optometrists and Opticians Board
 5. Functions of Board
 6. Chairperson of Board
 7. Disqualifications from membership of Board
 8. Filling of vacancies
 9. Meetings and quorum of Board
10. Appointment of committees and delegation of powers
11. Disclosure of interest

                                        PART 3

        REGISTRATION OF OPTOMETRISTS AND OPTICIANS

12. Appointment of Registrar
13. Registers
14. Alteration of registers
15. Registration of optometrists and opticians
16. Refusal of registration
17. Certificate of registration
18. Practising certificate
19. Publication of list of registered persons
20. Power of Board to cancel registration, etc.

                         1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Optometrists and Opticians

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  2

Section   Costs
          Appeal
   21.    Conviction final and conclusive
   22.    Restoration of registration
   23.
   24.

                                        PART 4

                                      OFFENCES

25. Unlawful engagement in optometry or opticianry
26. Recovery of fees or charges
27. Fraudulent registration, etc.
28. Jurisdiction of court
29. Composition of offences

                                        PART 5

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

30. Accreditation and Examinations Committees
31. Inspectors
32. Assessor to Board
33. Protection against liability
34. Service of documents
35. Exemption
36. Amendment of Schedule
37. Regulations

                                        PART 6

               SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

38. Interpretation of this Part
39. Persons licensed under repealed Act
40. Pending investigations, proceedings, etc.

         The Schedule

An Act to provide for the registration of optometrists and opticians, to
  regulate their practices and to provide for purposes connected
  therewith.

                                                           [22 February 2008]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
             Optometrists and Opticians

3            Act 2007                                        2020 Ed.

             PART 1

             PRELIMINARY

Short title

   1. This Act is the Optometrists and Opticians Act 2007.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Board” means the Optometrists and Opticians Board
         established under section 4;

      “certificate of registration” means a certificate of registration
         issued by the Board under section 17;

       [Deleted by Act 11 of 2023 wef 01/05/2023]

      “eye care” means any form of healthcare that is related to the
         diagnosis and treatment of eye or vision‑related conditions;

      “inspector” means an inspector appointed by the Board under
         section 31(1);

      “institution of higher learning” means a polytechnic or
         university;

      “medical practitioner” means a person who is registered under
         the Medical Registration Act 1997;

      “member” means a member of the Board;

      “ophthalmologist” means a person who is, by virtue of
         registration in the Register of Specialists under the Medical
         Registration Act 1997, entitled to practise as a specialist in
         ophthalmology;

      “optical appliances” means lenses, spectacles, eyeglasses,
         artificial eyes, contact lenses or appurtenances thereto for
         the aid or correction of visual or ocular anomalies of the eyes;

      “optician” means a person who is registered in the Register of
         Opticians under this Act;

      “opticianry” or “the practice of opticianry” means any of the acts
         or activities specified in Part 1 of the Schedule;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Optometrists and Opticians

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                      4

“optometrist” means a person who is registered in the Register
   of Optometrists under this Act;

“optometry” or “the practice of optometry” means any of the
   acts or activities specified in Part 2 of the Schedule;

“practising certificate” means a practising certificate issued
   under section 18;

“refraction” means an eye examination to measure the power of
   vision;

“Register of Opticians” means the Register of Opticians kept
   and maintained under section 13(1)(b);

“Register of Optometrists” means the Register of Optometrists
   kept and maintained under section 13(1)(a);

“registered person” means a person who is registered under
   section 15 for the carrying out of any practice of optometry or
   opticianry;

“Registrar” means the Registrar of the Board;

“registration” means the registration of any person under
   section 15 as an optometrist or optician;

“regulations” means regulations made under section 37.

Application

 3. This Act does not apply to any ophthalmologist in relation to his
or her practice of optometry or opticianry.

                                    PART 2
            OPTOMETRISTS AND OPTICIANS BOARD
Establishment of Optometrists and Opticians Board
 4.—(1) There is established a body called the Optometrists and
Opticians Board, which consists of not less than 10 and not more than
12 members appointed by the Minister, of whom —
       (a) at least 2 must be optometrists;
       (b) at least 2 must be opticians;

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
   Optometrists and Opticians

5  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

   (c) at least one must be an ophthalmologist;

   (d) one must be the Director‑General of Health or his or her
        representative;

                                                                        [Act 11 of 2023 wef 01/05/2023]

   (e) one must be the Director-General of Education or his or her
        representative; and

   (f) at least one must be a person who is neither an optometrist,
       an optician nor a medical practitioner, to represent the
       interests of persons receiving optometry and opticianry
       services.

 (2) Every member holds office for a term not exceeding 3 years and
is eligible for re‑appointment.

 (3) The Minister may, at any time, revoke the appointment of any
member (other than a member in subsection (1)(d) or (e)) without
assigning any reason.

Functions of Board

 5. The functions of the Board are —

       (a) to approve or reject applications for registration under this
            Act and to approve any such applications subject to such
            restrictions as it may think fit;

       (b) to accredit courses in the practice of optometry and
            opticianry in Singapore for the purposes of registration;

       (c) to issue guidelines on the standards for the practice of
            optometry and opticianry;

       (d) to make recommendations to the appropriate authorities for
            the training and education of optometrists and opticians;

       (e) to determine and regulate the conduct and ethics of
            optometrists and opticians; and

        (f) generally to do all such acts, matters and things as are
            necessary to be carried out under or for the purposes of this
            Act.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Optometrists and Opticians

2020 Ed.              Act 2007                                      6

Chairperson of Board

 6.—(1) The Minister must appoint one of the members to be the
Chairperson of the Board.

 (2) The Chairperson presides at any meeting of the Board and, in
his or her absence, the members present must elect from among
themselves one member to preside over the meeting.

Disqualifications from membership of Board

 7. A person is disqualified to be or from being a member of the
Board if the person —

       (a) is not a citizen or a permanent resident of Singapore;

       (b) is an undischarged bankrupt;

       (c) has been convicted in Singapore or elsewhere of any
            offence involving fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude; or

       (d) is totally or partially incapacitated by a mental or physical
            disability.

Filling of vacancies

 8.—(1) The office of a member becomes vacant if the member —

       (a) dies;

       (b) resigns his or her office;

       (c) becomes subject to any of the disqualifications specified in
            section 7; or

       (d) has his or her appointment revoked before the expiry of the
            term for which the member has been appointed.

 (2) The Minister may remove from office any member who is
absent without leave of the Board from 3 consecutive meetings of —

       (a) the Board; or

       (b) any committee of which he or she is a member appointed
            by the Board.

 (3) Any question as to whether a person has ceased to be a member
is to be determined by the Minister whose decision is final.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
   Optometrists and Opticians

7  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

 (4) If any vacancy arises among the members, the Minister may
appoint a person to fill the vacancy in the manner in which the
appointment to the vacant office was made, and that person is to hold
office for as long as the member in whose place he or she was
appointed would have held office.

 (5) No act done by or under the authority of the Board is invalid in
consequence of any defect that is afterwards discovered in the
appointment or qualification of the members or any of them.

Meetings and quorum of Board

 9.—(1) The Board is to meet at such times and places as the
Registrar may appoint.

 (2) At any meeting of the Board, 5 members form a quorum and no
business may be transacted at any meeting unless a quorum is present.

 (3) The Chairperson or member presiding at any meeting of the
Board has an original vote and, in the case of an equality of votes, a
casting vote.

 (4) Subject to subsection (2), the Board may act despite any
vacancy in the membership of the Board.

 (5) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board may regulate its
own procedure.

 (6) The Board must keep minutes of its proceedings in such form or
manner as the Board thinks fit.

Appointment of committees and delegation of powers

 10.—(1) The Board may appoint one or more committees for any
general or special purpose which, in the opinion of the Board, may be
better dealt with or managed by a committee.

 (2) The Board may delegate any of its powers or functions (except
the power of delegation conferred by this subsection) to any
committee so appointed, with or without restrictions or conditions
as the Board thinks fit.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Optometrists and Opticians

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  8

 (3) The number and term of office of the members of a committee
appointed under this section and the number of those members
necessary to form a quorum are to be fixed by the Board.

 (4) A committee appointed under this section may include persons
who are not members of the Board.

 (5) The Board may continue to exercise any power conferred upon
it or perform any function under this Act despite the delegation of the
power or function under this section.

Disclosure of interest

 11.—(1) If a member is, directly or indirectly, interested in a matter
under consideration by the Board and is present at a meeting of the
Board at which the matter is the subject of consideration, the member
must, at the meeting and as soon as practicable after it commences,
disclose the member’s interest in that matter and may, with the
permission of the Board, participate in its consideration of that matter,
but must not vote on any question with respect to that matter.

 (2) No act or proceedings of the Board are to be questioned on the
ground that a member has contravened this section.

                                    PART 3

    REGISTRATION OF OPTOMETRISTS AND OPTICIANS

Appointment of Registrar

 12.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, the Minister must appoint a
member to be the Registrar of the Board.

 (2) The Minister may appoint any person to act as Registrar during
the absence from Singapore or incapacity from illness or otherwise of
the Registrar.

Registers

 13.—(1) The Registrar must keep and maintain the following
registers:

       (a) a Register of Optometrists containing the names of persons
            registered as optometrists under section 15;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
   Optometrists and Opticians

9  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

   (b) a Register of Opticians containing the names of persons
        registered as opticians under section 15.

 (2) The Register of Optometrists and the Register of Opticians must
contain the following particulars of every registered person:

   (a) the registered person’s name and residential address;

   (b) information as to whether the registered person is
        practising as a proprietor or an employee;

   (c) the registered name of the business or eye care
       establishment that the registered person operates or is
       employed by;

   (d) the address of the registered person’s most current place of
        work;

   (e) the date of the registered person’s registration as an
       optometrist or optician;

   (f) the qualifications by virtue of which the registered person
       is registered and the date on which the registered person
       obtained those qualifications;

   (g) such other particulars as the Board may determine.

   (3) A registered person must inform the Registrar in writing of —

   (a) any change in the registered person’s name, residential
        address, practice address or other particulars as may be
        prescribed, within 28 days of the occurrence of the change;
        and

   (b) any alteration or addition to the registered person’s
        qualifications.

 (4) A person who fails to comply with subsection (3)(a) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1,000.

 (5) A person who makes a report of a change in his or her residential
address under section 10 of the National Registration Act 1965 is
deemed to have complied with subsection (3)(a) in relation to the
person’s residential address on the date on which the person makes
the report.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Optometrists and Opticians

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  10

 (6) The Registrar may disclose any information in the Register of
Optometrists or the Register of Opticians to any person prescribed by
the regulations, if the disclosure is in accordance with any conditions
specified in those regulations.

 (7) Subsection (6) does not affect any other right or duty to disclose
the information under any general or written law.

Alteration of registers

 14. The Registrar must —

       (a) insert in the Register of Optometrists or the Register of
            Opticians (as the case may be) any alteration to the name,
            address or other particulars of any registered person which
            may come to the Registrar’s knowledge;

       (b) correct any error in any entry in the Register of
            Optometrists or the Register of Opticians (as the case
            may be) which may come to the Registrar’s knowledge;

       (c) remove from the Register of Optometrists or the Register
            of Opticians (as the case may be) the name of any
            person —

               (i) whose registration has been cancelled under this Act;
                   or

              (ii) who is deceased; and

       (d) insert in the Register of Optometrists or the Register of
            Opticians (as the case may be) any alteration to the
            qualifications or any additional qualifications of a
            registered person.

Registration of optometrists and opticians

 15.—(1) Any person who desires to carry out any practice of
optometry or opticianry must make an application to the Board for
registration in accordance with the regulations.

 (2) The Board may, subject to the regulations, register a person to
carry out any practice of optometry or opticianry, as the case may be.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Optometrists and Opticians

11  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

 (3) The Minister may, in respect of the practice of optometry or
opticianry, by regulations provide for or with respect to the following
matters:

    (a) the different classes of registration;

    (b) the form and manner of application, and the application
         fee, for each class of registration;

    (c) the qualifications and other requirements for each class of
        registration;

    (d) the conditions, restrictions and duration of each class of
         registration;

    (e) the circumstances in which a class of registration may be
        altered or renewed and the fees payable in respect thereof;

    (f) the course, qualifying examination and evaluation for the
        purpose of any class of registration, the fees payable for the
        course, examination and evaluation, and the conditions
        upon which an applicant may be exempted from the
        course, examination or evaluation;

    (g) the practice and conduct of optometrists or opticians,
         including the carrying out of the practice of optometry or
         opticianry, the use of any means of giving publicity to their
         practice and the use of titles and qualifications.

Refusal of registration

 16.—(1) The Board may refuse to register any applicant who —

       (a) in the opinion of the Board, may not be registered in
            accordance with the regulations;

       (b) in the opinion of the Board, is not of good reputation and
            character; or

       (c) fails to satisfy the Board that he or she is able to effectively
            and safely carry out the practice of optometry or opticianry.

 (2) Where the Board refuses to register an applicant, the Board must
by written notice inform the applicant of the refusal.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Optometrists and Opticians

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  12

 (3) A person who is aggrieved by any refusal of the Board under
subsection (1) may, within 30 days of the notice given under
subsection (2), appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

Certificate of registration

 17.—(1) Upon the registration of a person, the Board must issue to
the person a certificate of registration and specify in the certificate the
practice or practices of optometry or opticianry for which the person
is registered.

 (2) Where a person has had his or her registration in respect of any
practice of optometry or opticianry cancelled or suspended under
section 20, the person must surrender his or her certificate of
registration to the Board —

       (a) within 14 days of being notified by the Board of the
            cancellation or suspension; or

       (b) in a case where an appeal is pending under section 22,
            within such period as the Board may specify.

 (3) A person who fails to comply with subsection (2) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000.

Practising certificate

 18.—(1) A registered person who desires to obtain a practising
certificate for the practice of optometry or opticianry for which he or
she is registered must make an application to the Board in such form
and manner as the Board may require.

 (2) The application must be accompanied by the prescribed fee.

 (3) A practising certificate is valid for such period as the Board may
determine.

 (4) An application for the renewal of a practising certificate must be
made no later than 30 days before the expiry of the practising
certificate and must be made in such form and manner as the Board
may require.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Optometrists and Opticians

13  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

 (5) A registered person who applies for a practising certificate later
than 30 days before the expiry of the practising certificate is liable to
pay to the Board such late application fee as may be prescribed.

 (6) Where a person has had his or her registration in respect of any
practice of optometry or opticianry cancelled or suspended under
section 20, the person must surrender his or her practising certificate
to the Board —

    (a) within 14 days of being notified by the Board of the
         cancellation or suspension; or

    (b) in a case where an appeal is pending under section 22,
         within such other period as the Board may specify.

 (7) A person who fails to comply with subsection (6) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000.

Publication of list of registered persons

 19. The Registrar must, from time to time, prepare and publish on
an Internet website a list of the names, addresses, qualifications and
dates of qualifications of all persons who —

       (a) are registered as optometrists or opticians; and

       (b) have in force practising certificates.

Power of Board to cancel registration, etc.

 20.—(1) Any complaint concerning the conduct of a registered
person in his or her professional capacity must be made to the Board
in such form and manner as the Board may require.

 (2) Where the Board receives any complaint against a registered
person under subsection (1) or otherwise comes to know of any
information concerning the conduct of a registered person in his or
her professional capacity, the Board must notify the registered person
of the complaint or information and give that registered person an
opportunity to be heard either in person or by counsel.

 (3) The Board may cancel the registration of a registered person if
the Board is satisfied that the registered person —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Optometrists and Opticians

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  14

(a) has obtained his or her registration by a fraudulent or an
     incorrect statement;

(b) has had any of his or her qualifications by virtue of which
     he or she was registered withdrawn or cancelled by the
     authority through which it was acquired or by which it was
     awarded;

          (c) has had his or her registration in any other country for the
              practice of optometry or opticianry withdrawn, suspended
              or cancelled;

(d) has ceased to carry on the practice of optometry or
     opticianry for which he or she is registered;

          (e) has failed to comply with any condition to which his or her
              registration is subject;

          (f) has contravened any regulation made under this Act
              relating to the practice and conduct of optometrists or
              opticians that applies to him or her;

(g) has been convicted of an offence in Singapore or elsewhere
     involving fraud or dishonesty;

(h) has been convicted of an offence in Singapore or elsewhere
     implying a defect in character which renders him or her
     unfit to remain on the Register of Optometrists or the
     Register of Opticians;

          (i) has been guilty of any professional misconduct or
              negligence;

          (j) has been guilty of any improper act or conduct in his or her
              practice as an optometrist or optician which renders him or
              her unfit to remain on the Register of Optometrists or the
              Register of Opticians;

          (k) is unable to carry out the practice of optometry or
              opticianry for which he or she is registered safely or
              effectively by reason of any mental or physical disability;
              or

          (l) has failed to pay any penalty imposed on him or her under
              subsection (4)(b).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Optometrists and Opticians

15  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

 (4) Where a registered person is liable to have his or her registration
cancelled on any ground mentioned in subsection (3)(e) to (l), the
Board may, instead of cancelling the registration, take one or more of
the following measures:

    (a) censure the registered person;

    (b) impose on the registered person a penalty not exceeding
         $10,000;

    (c) order that the registered person’s registration be subject to
        such conditions as the Board may impose for a period not
        exceeding 3 years;

    (d) suspend the registered person’s registration for a period not
         exceeding 3 years.

 (5) Where the Board determines that there are no merits in any
complaint or information received by it concerning any registered
person, it may dismiss the complaint or information.

 (6) Every penalty imposed under subsection (4)(b) is recoverable as
a debt due to the Government.

 (7) Despite any appeal under section 22 that is pending, the
decision of the Board to cancel or suspend the registration of a
registered person, or to impose any penalty on the registered person
under subsection (4)(b), takes effect on the date the decision has been
communicated to him or her, unless the Board or the General Division
of the High Court otherwise directs.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (8) While the registration of a registered person for the carrying out
of a practice of optometry or opticianry remains suspended, he or she
is not regarded as a registered person in respect of that practice of
optometry or opticianry for the purposes of this Act, but on the expiry
of the registered person’s suspension, his or her rights and privileges
under this Act are revived.

 (9) Where a person is registered in respect of 2 or more practices of
optometry or opticianry, the Board may take action under this section
in relation to his or her registrations for both or all of those practices
of optometry or opticianry without having to institute separate
proceedings.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Optometrists and Opticians

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  16

Costs

 21.—(1) Where the Board cancels the registration of a registered
person under section 20(3) or takes any action against the registered
person under section 20(4), the Board may order the registered person
to pay any sums that it thinks fit in respect of the costs and expenses
of or incidental to any inquiry or investigation conducted or the taking
of action against the registered person.

 (2) The General Division of the High Court has jurisdiction to tax
the sums ordered to be paid under subsection (1), and the sums are
recoverable as a debt due to the Government.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Appeal

 22.—(1) A person who is aggrieved by a decision of the Board
under section 20(3), (4) or (5) may, within 14 days of the date of the
decision of the Board or within such further period as the General
Division of the High Court may allow, appeal to the General Division
of the High Court against the decision.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) There is no further appeal against the decision of the General
Division of the High Court pursuant to subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Conviction final and conclusive

 23. The Board in taking action under section 20, and the General
Division of the High Court on appeal from an order of the Board
under section 22, must accept the conviction of a registered person for
a criminal offence as final and conclusive.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Restoration of registration

 24.—(1) A person whose registration has been cancelled under
section 20 may apply to the Board for his or her name to be
re‑registered.

 (2) The Board may, after considering all relevant circumstances,
and upon the compliance by the applicant of all conditions imposed

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Optometrists and Opticians

17  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

by the Board (if any) and the payment of the prescribed fee,
re‑register the person.

(3) No application for re-registration is to be made to the Board —

    (a) before the expiry of 3 years from the date of the
         cancellation; and

    (b) more than once in any period of 12 months.

                                    PART 4

                                  OFFENCES

Unlawful engagement in optometry or opticianry

 25.—(1) A person must not —

       (a) carry out any practice of optometry or opticianry; or

       (b) advertise or otherwise hold himself or herself out to be
            qualified to carry out any practice of optometry or
            opticianry,

unless he or she is a qualified person in respect of the practice of
optometry or opticianry in question, and he or she carries out that
practice in accordance with the prescribed conditions.

 (2) A person must not employ any person who is not a qualified
person in respect of a practice of optometry or opticianry to carry out
that practice of optometry or opticianry.

 (3) Subsections (1) and (2) are subject to any transitional or saving
provisions as may be provided for by Part 6 or by the regulations.

 (4) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$25,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both and, in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (5) In any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (2), it is a
defence for the accused to prove that the accused —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Optometrists and Opticians

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  18

(a) did not know that the person employed was not a qualified
     person in respect of the practice of optometry or opticianry
     in question; and

(b) had exercised due diligence to ascertain if the person was a
     qualified person.

 (6) In this section, “qualified person”, in relation to a practice of
optometry or opticianry, means a person who is —

(a) registered to carry out; and

(b) has in force a practising certificate which authorises the
     person to carry out,

that practice of optometry or opticianry.

Recovery of fees or charges

 26. A person is not entitled to demand, claim, accept, receive, retain
or sue for or recover any fee or charge in any court for any act done in
contravention of section 25.

Fraudulent registration, etc.

 27. Any person who —

       (a) procures or attempts to procure registration as an
            optometrist or optician under this Act, a certificate of
            registration or a practising certificate, by knowingly
            making or producing or causing to be made or produced
            any false or fraudulent declaration, certificate, application
            or representation, whether in writing or otherwise;

       (b) wilfully makes or causes to be made any false entry in the
            Register of Optometrists or the Register of Opticians;

       (c) forges or alters a certificate of registration or practising
            certificate;

       (d) fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine a certificate of
            registration or practising certificate which the person
            knows or has reason to believe is forged or altered; or

       (e) buys, sells or fraudulently obtains a certificate of
            registration or practising certificate,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Optometrists and Opticians

19  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

Jurisdiction of court

 28. Despite anything to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has the power to impose the full penalty or punishment in
respect of the offence.

Composition of offences

 29.—(1) The Board may compound any offence under this Act that
is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a person
reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum not
exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $2,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money mentioned in subsection (1),
no further proceedings are to be taken against that person in respect of
the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                    PART 5

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Accreditation and Examinations Committees

 30.—(1) The Board may appoint one or more committees in
accordance with section 10, to be known as Accreditation and
Examinations Committees, to carry out the following functions:

       (a) to determine the standard and content of qualifying
            examinations for the purpose of registration under
            section 15;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Optometrists and Opticians

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  20

(b) to assess and determine the standard and content of courses
     for the purpose of registration under section 15;

          (c) to accredit all courses for the purpose of registration under
              section 15 and for continuing professional development;

(d) to organise and conduct the examinations;

          (e) to issue certificates to persons who have passed the
              examinations.

 (2) The Board may authorise any institution of higher learning to
carry out the functions mentioned in subsection (1)(d) and (e).

Inspectors

 31.—(1) The Board may appoint one or more public officers or
officers of the Board as inspectors —

       (a) to investigate the commission of an offence under this Act;

       (b) to investigate any complaint or matter in respect of which
            the Board may take action against registered persons under
            section 20; and

       (c) to assess the quality and appropriateness of the facilities
            and services provided and the practices and procedures
            being carried out in relation to any practice of optometry or
            opticianry.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1) —

       (a) an inspector may —

               (i) require any person to provide any information that is
                   within his or her knowledge that the inspector
                   believes on reasonable grounds to be connected
                   with any suspected contravention of this Act;

              (ii) require any person to produce any book, document,
                   paper or other record, or other article, which may be
                   related to the subject matter of the investigation for
                   inspection by the inspector and for making copies
                   thereof; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Optometrists and Opticians

21  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

    (iii) examine orally any person supposed to be acquainted
          with the facts and circumstances relevant to the
          carrying out of the provisions of this Act; and

    (b) an inspector who is duly authorised by the Board in writing
         may, without warrant, enter, inspect and search any
         premises which is used or proposed to be used, or in
         respect of which there is reasonable cause to believe is
         being used for the carrying out of any practice of
         optometry or opticianry, and may —

    (i) inspect any apparatus, appliance, equipment or
        instrument used or found on the premises;

    (ii) inspect, test, examine, take and remove any
         chemical, pharmaceutical or any other substance
         found on the premises;

    (iii) inspect, test, examine, take and remove any
          container, article or other thing that the inspector
          reasonably believes to contain or to have contained
          any chemical, pharmaceutical or any other substance
          found on the premises;

    (iv) inspect any test or procedure performed or carried
         out on the premises in order to ensure compliance
         with the provisions of this Act;

    (v) inspect and make copies of and take extracts from, or
         require the person having the management or control
         of the premises to provide copies of or extracts from,
         any book, document, record or electronic material
         relating to the affairs of the premises or the facilities
         or services provided or the practices or procedures
         being carried out at the premises;

    (vi) inspect and make copies of and take extracts from, or
         require any licensee or person having the
         management or control of the premises to provide
         copies of or extracts from, the medical record of any
         person who has been or who is being treated or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Optometrists and Opticians

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  22

          examined at the premises, even though that person’s
          prior consent has not been obtained;

          (vii) take such photographs or video recording as the
                inspector thinks necessary to record the premises or
                part of the premises, including any apparatus,
                appliance, equipment, instrument, article, book,
                document or record (including a medical record)
                found on the premises; and

          (viii) seize and remove from the premises any book,
                 record, document, apparatus, equipment, instrument,
                 material, chemical, pharmaceutical or any other
                 substance which the inspector reasonably believes
                 to be the subject matter of, or to be connected with,
                 an investigation under subsection (1)(a) or (b).

 (3) A statement made by any person under subsection (2)(a)(i) or
(iii) must —

(a) be reduced to writing and read over to the person; and

(b) after correction, be signed by the person.

(4) Any person who, without lawful excuse —

(a) refuses to answer any question put to the person by an
     inspector or gives a false answer to the question;

(b) refuses or fails to comply with any requirement of the
     inspector under subsection (2); or

          (c) wilfully obstructs an inspector in the exercise of the
              inspector’s authority under subsection (2),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Assessor to Board

 32.—(1) For the purposes of advising the Board and any committee
appointed by the Board, the Board may appoint an assessor to the
Board who must be an advocate and solicitor of at least 10 years’
standing.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Optometrists and Opticians

23  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

 (2) The assessor must not participate or sit in any deliberations of
the Board or its committees unless invited to do so, and the assessor’s
participation is limited only to questions of law arising from the
proceedings.

 (3) The Board may pay to the assessor such remuneration, to be
paid as part of the expenses of the Board, as the Board may determine.

Protection against liability

 33. No action shall lie against the Board, any committee or
inspector appointed by the Board, or any member or employee of
the Board or committee, for any act or thing done under this Act in
respect of any matter or thing done in good faith for the purposes of
carrying out the provisions of this Act.

Service of documents

 34.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by or under this
Act to be served on a person may be served as described in this
section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on an individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents
            generally, or specifically for the document, or (if no
            address is so specified) the individual’s residential address
            or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;
            or

       (e) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Optometrists and Opticians

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  24

 (3) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a partnership (other than a limited liability partnership)
may be served —

(a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer, or an
     authorised representative, of the partnership;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the partnership’s business address; or

          (c) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
              address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a body corporate (including a limited liability partnership)
or an unincorporated association may be served —

(a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
     body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
     limited liability partnership’s manager;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the registered office or principal office in Singapore of
     the body corporate or unincorporated association; or

          (c) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
              corporate or unincorporated association.

(5) Service of a document under this section takes effect —

(a) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
     after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
     undelivered); or

(b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
     becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
     it is sent.

 (6) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email may be effected only with the person’s prior written consent to
service in that way.

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Optometrists and Opticians

25                     Act 2007                               2020 Ed.

(8) In this section —

    “authorised representative”, in relation to a partnership (other
       than a limited liability partnership), means any person
       authorised to accept service of documents on behalf of the
       partnership;

    “business address” means —

    (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
         last known place of business in Singapore; or

    (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
         liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
         last known place of business in Singapore;

    “document” includes an order or a notice permitted or required
       by or under this Act to be served;

    “last email address” means the last email address given by the
       addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
       document as the email address for the service of documents
       under this Act;

    “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
       place of residence in Singapore.

                                 [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

Exemption

 35.—(1) The Minister may, subject to any conditions that the
Minister thinks fit, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person or
class of persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act.

 (2) Nothing in this Act prohibits a person who is undergoing a
course of instruction in the practice of optometry or opticianry, or any
aspect thereof, which is accredited by the Board, from engaging in
any aspect of the practice of an optometrist or optician as a part of the
course of instruction.

Amendment of Schedule

 36. The Minister may, after consulting the Board, by order in the
Gazette, amend the Schedule.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
             Optometrists and Opticians

2020 Ed.     Act 2007                                               26

Regulations

 37.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Minister may,
after consulting the Board, make such regulations as may be
necessary or expedient to give effect to the provisions and
purposes of this Act and for the due administration of this Act.

(2) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations may be made to —

(a) provide for the Registrar’s duties;

(b) regulate the registration of optometrists and opticians;

          (c) provide for the form of the Register of Optometrists and
              the Register of Opticians, the particulars to be entered in
              the Register of Optometrists and the Register of Opticians
              and the mode in which each Register must be kept;

(d) regulate the issue and renewal of practising certificates;

          (e) regulate the removal and restoration of names in the
              Register of Optometrists and the Register of Opticians;

          (f) regulate the procedure of any committee appointed by the
              Board and the conduct of any proceedings of the
              committee;

(g) provide for the payment of fees to any member or any
     committee appointed by the Board;

(h) provide for the duties and functions of, and payment of
     remuneration to, the assessor appointed under section 32;

          (i) regulate the professional practice, ethics, conduct and
              discipline of registered persons;

          (j) regulate the use by registered persons of any means of
              giving publicity, whether by advertisements or otherwise,
              to their practice as optometrists and opticians;

          (k) regulate the procedures or methods used in the testing of
              sight and eyes and the prescription, dispensing, fitting,
              supply and sale of optical appliances;

          (l) regulate the quality of optical appliances which may be
              sold or supplied by registered persons;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Optometrists and Opticians

27  Act 2007                                            2020 Ed.

    (m) regulate the use and storage by registered persons of any
         machinery, equipment or other facility for the testing of
         sight and eyes and the supply and fitting of optical
         appliances;

    (n) prescribe the forms necessary for the administration of this
         Act;

    (o) prescribe the manner in which and the time within which
         an application under this Act is to be made;

    (p) provide that any person who contravenes any regulation
         made under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall
         be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or
         to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
         both;

    (q) prescribe the offences that may be compounded;

    (r) prescribe such other matters as are necessary or authorised
        to be prescribed under this Act; and

    (s) provide for such incidental, supplementary or transitional
        provisions as may be necessary or expedient.

                                    PART 6

           SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

Interpretation of this Part

 38. In this Part —

      “licence”, in relation to a licensed contact lens practitioner,
         means the licence granted to the licensed contact lens
         practitioner under the repealed Act;

      “licensed contact lens practitioner” means a person who,
         immediately before 22 February 2008, was holding a valid
         licence granted to the person under the repealed Act (whether
         provisionally or otherwise) authorising the person to practise
         as a contact lens practitioner under the provisions of that Act;

      “repealed Act” means the Contact Lens Practitioners Act
         (Cap. 53A, 2002 Revised Edition) repealed by this Act.

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Optometrists and Opticians

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  28

Persons licensed under repealed Act

 39.—(1) Despite this Act, every licensed contact lens practitioner is
deemed to be registered as an optician and have in force a practising
certificate which authorises the licensed contact lens practitioner to
carry out any practice of opticianry under this Act, subject to such
conditions or restrictions that the Minister may prescribe.

 (2) To avoid doubt, nothing in subsection (1) prevents a licensed
contact lens practitioner from —

(a) applying to be registered as an optometrist; and

(b) applying for a practising certificate to carry out any
     practice of optometry,

under this Act, subject to such conditions or restrictions that the
Minister may prescribe.

Pending investigations, proceedings, etc.

 40.—(1) Any order or decision made by the Contact Lens
Practitioners Board pursuant to the provisions of the repealed Act
is deemed to be, and has the same force and effect of, an order or
decision made by the Optometrists and Opticians Board under this
Act.

 (2) This section does not affect section 16 of the Interpretation
Act 1965.

          THE SCHEDULE

                                      Sections 2 and 36

                                           PART 1

                      ACTS OR ACTIVITIES CONSTITUTING
           “OPTICIANRY” OR “THE PRACTICE OF OPTICIANRY”

 1. Refraction for persons of 8 years of age or older.

 2. Interpreting prescriptions of medical practitioners and optometrists.

 3. Supplying, preparing and dispensing of all optical appliances, except for
contact lenses (whether or not they fall within the definition of “optical
appliances” in section 2).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Optometrists and Opticians

29  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

 4. Fitting, adjusting and adapting of all optical appliances, except for contact
lenses (whether or not they fall within the definition of “optical appliances” in
section 2), to the human face and eyes in accordance with the prescriptions of
legally qualified medical practitioners and optometrists.

                                           PART 2

                      ACTS OR ACTIVITIES CONSTITUTING
           “OPTOMETRY” OR “THE PRACTICE OF OPTOMETRY”

 1. Refraction.

 2. Prescribing of optical appliances and contact lenses (whether or not they fall
within the definition of “optical appliances” in section 2).

 3. Detecting abnormalities of the eye using the following methods:

        (a) binocular vision tests;

        (b) ophthalmoscopy or fundoscopy;

        (c) retinoscopy;

        (d) slit-lamp examination;

        (e) tonometry;

         (f) visual field testing.

 4. Interpreting prescriptions of medical practitioners and optometrists.

 5. Supplying, preparing and dispensing of all optical appliances and contact
lenses (whether or not they fall within the definition of “optical appliances” in
section 2).

 6. Fitting, adjusting and adapting of all optical appliances and contact lenses
(whether or not they fall within the definition of “optical appliances” in section 2)
to the human face and eyes in accordance with the prescriptions of legally
qualified medical practitioners and optometrists.

                                                                                                        [S 249/2009]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
      LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

OPTOMETRISTS AND OPTICIANS
                ACT 2007

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 36 of 2007 — Optometrists and Opticians Act 2007

Date of First Reading     : 21 May 2007
                                (Bill No. 24/2007 published on
                                22 May 2007)

Date of Second and Third  : 17 July 2007
Readings

Date of commencement      : 22 February 2008

2. G. N. No. S 92/2008 — Optometrists and Opticians Act (Amendment of
                                  Schedule) Order 2008

Date of commencement      : 22 February 2008

3. 2008 Revised Edition — Optometrists and Opticians Act

Date of operation         : 31 December 2008

4. G. N. No. S 249/2009 — Optometrists and Opticians Act (Amendment of
                                  Schedule) Order 2009

Date of commencement      : 1 June 2009

5. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019

Date of First Reading     : 7 October 2019
                                (Bill No. 32/2019)

Date of Second and Third  : 5 November 2019
Readings

Date of commencement      : 2 January 2021

6. 2020 Revised Edition — Optometrists and Opticians Act 2007

Date of operation         : 31 December 2021

7. Act 11 of 2023 — Healthcare Services (Amendment) Act 2023

Date of First Reading     : 6 February 2023
                                (Bill No. 6/2023)

Date of Second and Third  : 6 March 2023
Readings

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                      ii

Date of commencement  : 1 May 2023

8. Act 19 of 2025 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2025
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 9/2025

First Reading         : 22 September 2025

Second and Third Readings : 15 October 2025

Commencement          : 5 December 2025

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
       COMPARATIVE TABLE

OPTOMETRISTS AND OPTICIANS
                ACT 2007

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                  2020 Ed.          2008 Ed.
[Omitted as spent]
[Omitted as spent]          40—(1)
40—(1)                         (2)
                               (3)
   (2)                         (4)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
